

<!-- page 1 -->

1015I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
1015
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"612 – 2009 cQ,s 24 jeks isl=rdod – 2009'07'24
No. 1,612 – FRIDAY , JULY 24, 2009
PAGE
Government Notifications … … 1017
Price Control Orders … … —
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices… … —
Accounts of the Government of Sri Lanka … —
Revenue and Expenditure Returns… … —
Miscellaneous Departmental Notices … 1027
Notice to Mariners … … —
“Excise Ordinance” Notices … … —
PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the President … —
Appointments, &c., by the President … 1016
Appointments, &c., by the Cabinet of Ministers … —
Appointments, &c., by the Public Service Commission —
Appointments, &c., by the Judicial Service Commission ––
Other Appointments, &c.          … … ––
Appointments, &c., of Registrars … —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st  July, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th  July,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
AA
N. B.— The catalogue of books  printed  quarterly in January - March  2006 has been Published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

1016 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Appointments, &c.,  by the President
No.  247 of 2009
D/RF/824/NY/3/3.
SRI   LANKA   NAVY—REGULAR   NAVAL  FORCE
Promotion approved by his Excellency the President
TO the rank of Temporary Captain w.e.f. 1 July, 2008
Commander (NP) KOGGALA LIYANAGE UPUL NISHANTHA, SLN -
NRP 0373
Commander (NP) MARIKKU FERNANDULAGE ABHAYA KUMARA DE
SILVA, SLN - NRP 0377
Commander (C) A DIKARI ARACHCHIGE ROHITHA KAMALAJEEWA
PERERA, SLN - NRX 0508
Commander (ASW) K ASTURI ARACHCHILAGE  SANATH UTHPOLA,
RSP, SLN - NRX 0365
Commander (G) D ASSANAYAKE  K ANKANAMALAGE  P IYARATHNE
DASSANAYAKE, RWP, RSP, USP, SLN - NRX 0398
Commander (ASW) YALATH MUDIYANSELAGE GUNASIRI BANDARA
JAYATHILAKA, RSP, SLN - NRX 0522
No. 248  of 2009
D/RF/824/NY/2/4.
SRI   LANKA  NAVY—REGULAR   NAVAL   FORCE
Promotion approved by his Excellency the President
TO the rank of Temporary Commander w.e.f. 1 July, 2008
Lieutenant Commander (G) MUHANDIRAMLAGE MOHAMED AKRAM
ALAVI, RSP, psc, SLN - NRX 0638
Lieutenant Commander (E) SOMIRANJAN DILRUK PATHIRANA, SLN
- NRE 0646
Lieutenant Commander (SH) KANKANAM DURAGE ANANDA JAGATH
SIRIWARDANA, SLN - NRH 0677
Lieutenant Commander (S) J AGATH GUNASEKARA, SLN - NRS
0679
Lieutenant Commander (E) PRASAD SATYAJITH PRABHARATNE, SLN
- NRE 0726
Lieutenant Commander (E) GALHENA APPUHAMILAGE DON DEEPAL
SAMANTHA SAMARANAYAKE , SLN - NRE 0644
Lieutenant Commander (S) ASELA KELUM BULATHSINGHALA, SLN
- NRS 0634
No. 246 of 2009
NATIONAL  CADET  CORPS
Confirmation of Rank approved by His Excellency the
President
TO be Major with effect from 01st December, 2008.
O/3039 Captain (Temporary Major) K M P M UNANTHENNA (L)
O/3123 Captain (Temporary Major) J K D R J AYAWARDHANA
O/3135 Captain (Temporary Major) T A D R P D E ALWIS
O/3481 Captain (Temporary Major) U W A W K S ENEVIRATNE
O/3675 Captain (Temporary Major) R B M M RAMANAYAKE (L)
O/3942 Captain (Temporary Major) K S ENEVIRATNA
O/4040 Captain (Temporary Major) S A N D S IYAMBALAPITIYA
By His Excellency’s Command,
GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA, RWP RSP psc,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence, Public Security,
Law and Order.
Colombo,
           2009
07-674
Commander (G) ARAMBADUGE KALANA MITHTHA JINADASA, RSP,
USP, psc, SLN - NRX 0389
Commander (TAS) AJANTHA SURESH EDIRIWIRA, RWP, RSP, USP,
psc, SLN - NRX 0387
Commander (ASW) G ALLEDANDE  E KANAYAKE  W ASALA
MUDIYANSELAGE ANURA NISHANTHA EKANAYAKE, RSP, USP, psc, SLN
- NRX 0390
Commander (N) SUNIL BANDULA SENARATHNE, RSP, SLN - NRX
0524
Commander (CE) ATHAUDAGE SUSILA KUMARA SENADHEERA, SLN
- NRC 0755
Commander (G) P ONNAHENNADIGE  DHAMMIKA SANJEEWA DIAS,
RSP, USP, psc, SLN - NRX 0393
Commander (C) KAPILA UBEYSEKERA, RSP, SLN - NRX 0394
Commander (PRO) SENAKA HANWELLA, psc, SLN - NRR 0402
By His Excellency’s Command,
GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA, RWP RSP psc,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence, Public Security,
Law and Order.
Colombo,
11th December, 2008.
07-633

<!-- page 3 -->

1017I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Lieutenant Commander (S) J AGATH CHANDANA LIYANAGAMAGE,
SLN - NRS 0632
Lieutenant Commander (S) M ARAPANA  W ALAWWE  V IJITHA
MARAPANA, SLN - NRS 0635
Lieutenant Commander (L) K ARUNATHILAKE  M UDIYANSELAGE
MAHENDRA PRADEEP KARUNATHILAKE , SLN - NRL 0648
Lieutenant Commander (E) UPALI JEEWANANDA JAYATISSA, SLN -
NRE 0727
Lieutenant Commander (L) J ANAKA USHAN GUNASEELA, SLN -
NRL 0733
Lieutenant Commander (G) KONARA MUDIYANSELAGE GAMAGEDARA
NALIN CHAMINDA NAVARATHNE, RSP, SLN - NRX 0641
Lieutenant Commander (ND) P RIYAL N ISHANTHA V ITHANAGE,
RSP, SLN - NRX 0717
Lieutenant Commander (G) M AHAMUDALIGE HERBI NISHANTHA
PEIRIS, RSP, SLN - NRX 0719
Lieutenant Commander (G) BASNAYAKE MUDIYANSELAGE KEERTHI
KUMARA BASNAYAKE, RSP, SLN - NRX 0720
Lieutenant Commander (ND) A BEYSINGHE ARACHCHIGE ANURA
ROHITHA ABEYSINGHE , RSP, SLN - NRX 0723
Lieutenant Commander (S) KULAPATHI THANTHIRIGE DON PRADEEP
CHAMINDA JAYAPALA, SLN - NRS 0738
Lieutenant Commander (L) RANASINGHE ARACHCHIGE DON ARUNA
KUMARA RANASINGHE, SLN - NRL 0649
Lieutenant Commander (IT) MALA LAMAHEWA, SLN - NRT 0551
Lieutenant Commander (E) K EKUNEWELAMALAWEERAGE  D ON
HARSHAJITH PERERA, SLN - NRE 0725
Lieutenant Commander (E) CHINTHAKA DILRUKSHANA RAJAPAKSE,
SLN - NRE 0728
Lieutenant Commander (CE) H IRAN SACHEENDRA BALASURIYA,
SLN - NRC 0730
Lieutenant Commander (L) L OKU M ARAKKALAGE H ARSHA DE
SILVA, SLN - NRL 0731
Lieutenant Commander (L) JAGATH HEWAGE, SLN - NRL 0734
Lieutenant Commander (L) U PUL PRASANNA KARAWITA, SLN -
NRL 0735
Lieutenant Commander (L) P ALINDA AMAL WIJERATNE, SLN -
NRL 0736
By His Excellency’s Command,
GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA, RWP RSP psc,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence, Public Security,
Law and Order.
Colombo,
11th December, 2008.
07-634
Government Notifications
My No. : CH/O/5681
VESTING  order under section 8(4) of the Ceilling on Housing
Property Law No.1 of 1973 as amended by (amendments) Acts,
No. 04 of 1988, No.80 of 1988  No. 56 of 1980, No. 9 of  1977,
No. 18 of 1976 and No. 34 of 1974.
I, Lucas Indurugalla Commissioner of National Housing by virtue
of the powers vested in me by section 8(4) of the ceiling on Housing
property Law No. 01 of 1973 as amended by Acts, No. 56 of  1980,
No. 09 of 1977, No. 18 of 1976 and 34 of 1974 do by this order vest
in the Commissioner of National Housing the houses morefully
described in the schedule hereto with effect from 17.02.1998.
Lucas Indurugalla,
Commissioner of National Housing.
Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities,
Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla.
3rd July, 2009.
SCHEDULE
Assesment No. 50 Kew Road Colombo 02.
54  ” ”
56 ” ”
58 Kew Road Colombo 02
60 ” ”
62 ” ”
64 ” ”
66 ” ”
56/6 ” ”
56/8 ” ”
56/9 ” ”
56/11 ” ”
56/12 ” ”
56/23 ” ”
56/24 ” ”
56/25 ” ”
56/26 ” ”
56/27 ” ”
56/28 ” ”
56/29 ” ”
Assessment No: 06 Baracks Lane, Colombo 02
11 ” ”
15 ” ”
17 ” ”
07-627

<!-- page 4 -->

1018 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
PILGRIMAGES  ORDINANCE
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Public Administration
and Home Affairs in terms of Section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance
(Chap. 175).
Dr. SARATH AMUNUGAMA,
Minister of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Colombo,
07th July, 2009.
REGULATIONS
1. These Regulations may be cited as the regulations of Esala
Maha Perahera and religious festival (annual festival) of
historical Siththamgallena.
2. In these regulations Camp Area referred  means the area
described in the schedule.
“District Secretary/Government  Agent” means the District
Secretary/Government Agent of Hambanthota Administrative
District and it also includes any officer authorized by him in
terms of Regulation 4.
“Medical Officer” means the Health Medical officer in charge
of the camp area.
“Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the
camp area for any purpose.
“Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the
camp area.
“Public Health Inspector” means the Public Health  Inspector
in charge of the camp area.
3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on
account of the festival of Esala Maha Perahera and religious
festival, annually  held at historical Siththamgallena Raja
Maha Vihara of Walasmulla Divisional Secretariat  in the
Administrative District of Hambanthota.
4. The divisional Secretary shall have the power to authorize any
public officer to exercise any power vested in him and carry
out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
5. I. The divisional Secretary shall have the power to regulate
vehicular traffic or working to or from the camp area.
II. No person shall Act,  contrary to any lawful order given
by any police officer in compliance with the  instructions
issued to such police officer by the divisional secretary for
the exercise of powers vested  in him under the  para (1)
of this regulation.
6. No person shall bring any  cattle or any other animal into the
camp area without the written permission of the Divisional
Secretary. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance
where carts are brought and cattle are driven to a place reserved
for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under Regulation 7.
7. (1) The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to reserve
or provide the following places inside the camp area:
(a) Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles ;
(b) Places for leaving carts and cattle ;
(c) Separate places for the accommodation of each group
of pilgrims ;
(d) Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick ;
(e) Places for begging and solicitation for charity ;
(f) Places for displaying certain items for sale ;
(g) Places suitable for putting up huts various purposes ;
(h) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for
washing and other places providing such facilities;
(i) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for
bathing and other places providing such facilities;
(j) Tanks, wells, water holes for they use of pilgrims for
obtaining drinking water and other places   providing
such facilities ;
(k) Places for other purpose the divisional secretary may
deem necessary.
(3) If the Divisional Secretary deems necessary and in case
of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose
under Para (1) by him, that place shall be used only for
such purpose and no one shall use any other place within
the camp area for such purpose.
8. If the Divisional Secretary or Medical Officer is of the view
that it is required to add chlorine to any tank, well, water hole
or  reservoir situated in the camp area for prevention of
diseases, the Divisional Secretary  or Medical Officer shall
have the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary permanent
building or any other construction or make a new
addition to existing building or any other construction
for any purpose in any place within the camp area,
reserved or provided certain purpose under regulation
7, except on a permit issued by the Divisional Secretary
for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the
conditions stipulated in such permit.
(2) If any person builds any hut or temporary permanent
building or any other construction or make a new
addition to existing building or construction contrary
to the Para (1) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery
of a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the
Divisional Secretary to order to remove  or demolish
such hut or building or construction within the period
of time given in the notice as the case  may be.
(3) Where any person who has been delivered a notice
under the Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to Act, in

<!-- page 5 -->

1019I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
compliance with the requirements stipulated in that
notice within the period started there in or where a
doubt arises as to who is the actual person to whom
such notice is to be delivered it is lawful for the
Divisional Secretary to cause action to be taken to
remove or demolish such hut building, construction or
a  new addition made to the existing building or
construction as the case may be. It is also lawful for the
Divisional Secretary to make arrangements to enter to
any  land or premises together  with labourers,
equipment.
10. No  one shall  excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory
reserved by the Divisional Secretary, for   the use of pilgrims
on exhibition of a notice or sign board in or near any lavatory.
11. No one shall contaminate any tank, well, water holes, reservoir,
canal stream or rill water located in the  camp area.
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area
except in a place or in a container supplied by the GA for this
purpose.
13. (1) The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to
stream line the distribution of all food and beverages to
the pilgrims in the camp area.
(2) No one shall disobey any order to be carried out by
Police Officer or a Public Health Inspector in accordance
with instructions given by Divisional Secretary in the
exercise of powers delegated to him under Para (1) of
this regulations.
14. (1) Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale
or other purpose in the camp area is found to be
contaminated or not suitable for human consumption,
the Divisional Secretary or the Medical Officer or the
Public Health Inspector may announce that such food
or drink is not suitable for human consumption.
(2) No one shall sell within the camp area any food or drink
announced as not suitable for human consumption
under Para (1) of this regulation.
(3) It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health
Inspector to prohibit and destroy any food or drink
announced not suitable for human consumption under
Para   (1) of the regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where
sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place in the
camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose
under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained on a license
issued by the Divisional Secretary and in accordance with
conditions stipulated there in. Every license shall be issued
free of charge on recommendation of the Medical Officer or
any officer authorized by such medical officer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made,
eating houses and Dansal and all furniture and equipment in
such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweets and cooked meals displayed or placed for
sale or any other purpose in the camp area shall  be kept in
show case properly made preventing the flies from entering
or to the satisfaction of the Medical Officer  or the Public
Health Inspector.
18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink
or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall be left any
place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be
dumped into the container placed as provided in regulation.
However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been found
thrown over any place within the camp area or on the ground
close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case
of bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are made or eating
house or ‘dansal’ the licence holder of such place shall be
deemed to have violated provisions in this regulations unless
such owner chief occupant or lincence holder proves  that all
necessary precautions have been taken and action has been
taken with proper care prevent the commission such offence.
19. All bakers, sweet stalls, place where sweets are made, eating
houses, Dansals and buildings or constructions used for
commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a
wooden or metal garbage container with a capacity of 112 cube
meters (4 1/2 cube feet) and it shall always be closed with a
wooden or metal lid unless it is used to dump or remove
garbage.
20. (1) If the Divisional Secretary is of the view that any
bakery, sweet, stall, place where sweets are made,
eating house, Dansal or business place has been
established or maintained in violation or regulations 15,
16, 17, 18 or 19 in this section he shall hare the authority
to close down such bakery, sweet stall. place where
sweet are made, eating house, Dansal or business place
situated within the camp area or cancel any license with
immediate effect if any license has been issued for such
place.
(2) Any person who is in charge or any bakery sweet stall
or place where sweets are made or business place shall
act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the
Divisional Secretary under chapter (1) of this section.
21.  No person suffering from any infection disease or contagious
diseases shall  enter the camp area.
22. (1) It shall be lawful for the government agent to order the
pilgrims to leave the camp area and for the Divisional
Secretary to determine the route of leaving and mode
of transport to be used for leaving when on epidemic
is spreading in such area.
(2) No person shall act against any legal order given by the
Divisional Secretary under Para (1) of this Section.

<!-- page 6 -->

1020 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or
contagious disease within the camp area, and when a person
is knowingly by living together with a person suffering from
any infectious disease or contagious disease every such
person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public
Health Inspector or any Police Officer immediately.
24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where
sweets are made restaurant or Dansal within the camp area
shall  not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from
infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter such bakery,
place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or
participate in the distribution dale or manufacture of any
materials or food or drink.
25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where
sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owner or chief
occupant of any lodge or pilgrims rest shall not allow any
person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious
disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place
where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal lodge or pilgrim
rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person
suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease is
staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief
occupant shall report it to the Medical Officer or the public
Health Officer or any police officer immediately.
26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity
either by cash or by any other means within the camp area
except in a place reserved or provided for begging and
solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within
the camp area without a written permission from the Divisional
Secretary.
28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name
board displayed in any place under regulation 7 or 10.
29. It shall be lawful for the Divisional Secretary, Medical Officer,
Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer to,
(a) Enter any land or place within the camp area for the
purpose of carrying out any regulation from among  these
regulations and,
(b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the
camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or a name
board under regulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the Divisional Secretary to cancel at any
time
(a) Any permission given under regulation 6 of regulation 27;
(b) Permit issued under regulation 9 ;
(c) Any license issued under regulation 15.
If he considers that the cancellation is appropriate or in the
public interest.
SCHEDULE
Boundaries of the precincts where the annual Esala Perahera of
ancient Siththamgallena of Grama Niladhari Division, 559 Warapitiya
of Divisional Secretary’s Divison,  Walasmulla of Hambantota
District is held.
Boundaries are as follows :
East : Up to Boundary of Warapitiya lake ;
North : Up to Ramala Hospital along Warapitiya - Urubokka
road;
South : Up to Demataketiya Junction along Warapitiya -
Kirama Road and up to Welituduwa along Warapitiya-Handugala
road ;
West:  Up to Vihara Mawatha along Warapitiya-Mawarala road
and up to Ihala Vihara of Siththamgallena Raja Maha Vihara.
THE ROUTE OF PERAHERA.
The Perahera proceeds for 4 days. Devala Perhera is held for 3
days. The procession of 4th day will be Randoli Perahera. All
Peraheras commence from Ihala Viharaya of Siththamgallena Raja
Maha Vihara and Proceed along Vihara Mawatha and reaches the road
leading to vihara from Warapitiya-Mawarala road, then proceed
through the premises where salpila is held and again proceed along
Warapitiya road from Palabaddala road and proceed along Kirama
Road turning at Junction and finally returns to vihara turning at
Devala.
07-733
L. D. B. 277/40
THE  ANTIQUITIES  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER 188)
Notice under Section 18
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 18 of the Antiquities
Ordinance (Chapter 188), I, Mahinda Yapa Abeywardene, Minister
of Cultural Affairs and National Heritage, do hereby this Order
declare the monuments specified in the Schedule to this Order, to be
“Protected Monuments” for the purposes of the aforesaid Ordinance.
The Notice under Section 19 in relation to the monuments
specified in the Schedule to this Order was pulished in Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1604 of 29.05.2009.
M
AHINDA YAPA ABEYWARDENE,
Minister of Cultural Affairs
and National Heritage.
Colombo,
30th June, 2009.

<!-- page 7 -->

1021I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
SCHEDULE
List of Monuments to be Declared as Protected Monuments
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
01. The Tampita Image House (Image house on stone piles) in the
Kempitikanda Bodhirukkarama Purana Vihara Premises
situated in the Digana Kanda Grama Niladhari Division in the
Rambukkana Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kegalle District,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
02. The drip-ledged cave with the cave inscription, other drip
ledged caves and flight of steps carved on the rock identified
as Sri Shyla Vivekaramaya alias Pansalwatta, belonging to the
Wetenna village situated in the Udagaladeniya Grama Niladhari
Division in the Rambukkana Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
03. The rock inscription on the rock in the vicinity of Selawa
Vihara premises situated in the Selawa West Grama Niladhari
Division, in the Aranayaka Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
04. The drip-ledged rock cave maintained as a Devale, at the
Delgamuwa, Kovilewatte premises, situated in the Delgamuwa
Grama Niladhari Division in the Warakapola Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
05. The building identified as Dedigama Mahawalauwa and the
ancient building with a stone pillar comprising of a rock
inscription, in the vicinity, situated in the Dedigama Grama
Niladhari Division in the Warakapola Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
06. The drip-ledged cave with ancient paintings and sculpture
belonging to the Elpitiya village and situated in the Elpitiya
Grama Niladhari Division, in the Warakapola Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
07. The drip-ledged cave temple (Len Vihara) belonging to the
Purana Gallen (Rock cave) Raja Maha Viharaya in the Uduwaka
village in the Uduwaka Grama Niladhari Division in the
Warakapola Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kegalle District,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
08. The Mahatulagala drip-ledged Rock Cave (Gal Lena) in the
Abidigala village situated in the Abidigala Grama Niladhari
Division in the Warakapola Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
09. The rock inscription the pillar bases belonging to the Weragala
Purana Sriwardhenarama Vihara in the Weragala Grama
Niladhari Division in the Warakapola Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
10. The cave with the drip-ledged cave inscription and two
drip-ledged caves belonging to the historic Bibile Oya Pilimalena
Viharaya premises in the Gonagamuwa Grama Niladhari
Division in the Warakapola Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
11. The drip-ledged cave with the cave inscription belonging to
the Sonagiri Gallen Tapowana premises, in the Galpata
Grama Niladhari Division in the Warakapola Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
12. The drip-ledged cave Temple (Len Vihara) situated within the
Keerahena Purana Viharaya premises in the Keerahena Grama
Niladhari Division in the Warakapola Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kegalle District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
RATNAPURA  DISTRICT
13. The front wall with the Makara Thorana in the Image House
belonging to the Sannasgama Kiriweldeniya Purana Vihara
premises in the Sannasgama Grama Niladhari Division in the
Pelmadulla Divisional Secretary’s Division, Ratnapura
District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
14. The Dagoba in ruins, Ancient building complex and premises
with the surrounding stone wall in the Veherabindayaya
premises in the Biso Kotuwa village situated in the Galpaya
Grama Niladhari Division Weligepola Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Ratnapura District, Sabaragamuwa Province.
15. The ancient church building in the Kanatiriyanwela
St. Anthony’s Roman Catholic Church, in the Kanatiriyanwela
Grama Niladhari Division  in the Imbulpe Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Ratnapura District, Sabaragamuwa
Province.
KANDY  DISTRICT
16. The ancient Pohaya Geya, Sangawasa (dwelling house) and
the wall surrounding the Bodhi Tree belonging to the
Amunugama Degaldoruwa Raja Maha Vihara premises in the
Sirimalwatta, Pallegama, No. 633, Grama Niladhari Division
in the Kundasale Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kandy
District, Central Province.
17. The drip-ledged cave, chaitya, the flight of steps providing
access to the image house and rock inscription belonging to the
Kolugala Raja Maha Viharaya premises in the No. 356
Kolugala Grama Niladhari Division in the Hataraliyadda
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kandy District, Central
Province.
18. The Image house and Sangawasaya (Dwelling house) in the
Dalukgolla Raja Maha Vihara premises in the Dalukgolla
village in the No. 270 Ampitiya Udagama Grama Niladhari
Division in the Gangawata Korale Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kandy District, Central Province.

<!-- page 8 -->

1022 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
19. The Drip-ledged cave temple, two drip ledged caves and rock
inscriptions belonging to the Hindagala Raja Maha Viharaya
Cave Temple in the No. 267, Hindagala Grama Niladhari
Division in the Gangawata Korale Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kandy District, Central Province.
20. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone piles) Pohoya
Geya, Slab Inscription, hill inscription, Wahalkada, Dagoba
and the Buddha statue inside the new image house beonging
to the Medawala Raja Maha Viharaya premises, situated in
the Medawela  Grama Niladhari Division in the Harispattuwa
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kandy District, Central
Province.
21. Pattiyawatta Rajapihilla situated in the Attaragama
(Pattiyawatta) Grama Niladhari Division in the Harispattuwa
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kandy District, Central
Province.
22. Drip-ledged caves, three storeyed Image house, Chaitya,
Dhamma Sala and ancient flight of steps in the Gallengolla
Potgul Vihara premises situated in the Urulewatta Grama
Niladhari Division in the Udunuwara Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kandy District, Central Province.
23. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone piles) with a
two storeyed Dhammasala, the Sanghavasa with a centre
courtyard, the flight of steps carved on the rock leaving the
chaitya and pillar foundation.
MATALE  DISTRICT
24. Building premises with ancient stone pillars, Chaitya Godella
(hillock) in the Veherabendi Yaya Purana Viharaya premises
and drip-ledged cave, two hill inscriptions and flight of steps
in the Eastern slope of the Beliyakanda mountain situated in
the south western direction of the Vihara premises within No.
433D Meevalapathaha Grama Niladhari Division in the
Galewela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale District,
Central Province.
25. Pandiwita Ambalama (Pedestrians Resting Hall) in the
Pandiwita Grama Niladhari Division in the Matale Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Matale District, Central Province.
26. All drip-ledged caves including the drip ledged cave Temple
(Len Vihara) belonging to the Kuda Rideelen Raja Maha
Viharaya (Cave Temple) at Kitulwatta Horagahapitiya
situated in Horagahapitiya Grama Niladhari Division in the
Ukuwela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale District,
Central Province.
27. The Estate Bungalow, Warakanda Group Red Bana Gama
situated in the Magahatenna Grama Niladhari Division in the
Ukuwela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale District,
Central Province.
28. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone piles) at
Udasgiriya Bodhi Malu Viharaya situated in the No. 336,
Udasgiriya Grama Niladhari Division in the Yatawatta
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale District, Central
Province.
NUWARA  ELIYA   DISTRICT
29. The Padiyapelella Bridge built across Belihul Oya, Padiyapelella
sitauted in the Padiyapelella Grama Niladhari Division in the
Walapane Divisional Secretary’s Division, Nuwara Eliya
District, Central Province.
MATARA   DISTRICT
30. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone piles) and
Avasa Geya (dwelling house) with ancient paintings and
sculpture belonging to the Thorawita ancient Viharaya
premises situated in the Narawelpita South Grama Niladhari
Division in the Hakmana Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Matara District, Southern Province.
31. The Archaic House bearing Assessment No. 31, Wilfred
Gunasekara Mawatha inside the Fort in the Matara Fort
Grama Niladhari Division in the Matara Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Matara District, Southern Province.
32. The Archaic Walawwa at Siri Dhammarama Road, situated in
the Fort Grama Niladhari Division in the Matara Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Matara District, Southern Province.
33. The coast view building at Fort Cross Road situated in the Fort
Grama Niladhari Division in the Matara Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Matara District, Southern Province.
34. The VIP Bungalow at the venue called ‘Jamson Gaha Gedara”,
Sri Dharmarama Road, inside the Fort, in the Matara, Fort
Grama Niladhari Division in the Matara Divisional  Secretary’s
Division, Matara District, Southern Province.
35. The Archaic house bearing Assessment No. 42, Wilfred
Gunasekara Mawatha, inside the Fort, situated in the Matara
Grama Niladhari Division in the Matara Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Matara District, Southern Province.
36. The Governor’s Official Residence belonging to the Army
Camp Premises, situated at Fort, Wilfred Gunasekara
Mawatha, in the Matara Fort Grama Niladhari Division in the
Matara Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matara District,
Southern Province.
37. The Two Drip-Ledged cave temples in the Rotumba Budugala
Raja Maha Viharaya premises situated in the Galketa Kanda
Grama Niladhari Division in the Pasgoda Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Matara District, Southern Province.
38. The Tampita (built on stone Piles) Image house in the
Dampahala, Vilayaya Purana Raja Maha Viharaya premises
situated in the Dampahala West Grama Niladhari Division in
the Pasgoda Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matara District,
Southern Province.

<!-- page 9 -->

1023I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
39. The Drip-ledged cave temple (Len Viharaya) belonging to the
Molokgamuwa, Thunbewula, Wijayabahu Raja Maha Viharaya
premises situated in the Molokgamuwa Grama Niladhari
Division in the Pasgoda Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Matara District, Southern Province.
40. Ancient Image house, Bodhighara (Bodhi Tree shrine) and the
Vihara Maluwa with the wall now in ruins in the vicinity of
Kolawenigama Raja Maha Viharaya premises sitauted in the
No. 240A, Kolawenigama Grama Niladhari Division in the
Kotapola Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matara District,
Southern Province.
41. The Drip-ledged Cave Temple (Len Vihara) belonging to the
Bamunugama Raja Maha Viharaya premises situated in the
Bamunugama East Grama Niladhari Division in the Mulatiyana
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matara District, Southern
Province.
42. The ancient-Pirith Mandapaya (Pirith chanting chamber) and
the two ancient Sanghavasa (dwelling house) Buildings
belonging to the Pallawela Kirthi Sri Thejovanarama Viharaya
premises situated in the Kithsiripura Grama Niladhari Division
in the Mulatiyana Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matara
District, Southern Province.
43. The ancient Sanghavasa (dwelling house) belonging to the
Ganetonna Sri Sudharmarama Purana Viharaya premises
situated in the Narandeniya Grama Niladhari Division in the
Kamburupitiya Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matara
District, Southern Province.
44. The Drip-ledged Cave Temple (Len Vihara) in the Ruwankanda
Raja Maha Viharaya premises situated in the Dangala West
Grama Niladhari Division in the Pitabeddara Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Matara District, Southern Province.
45. The Image house with ancient paintings in the Godapitiya Sri
Sudharshanarama Viharaya Premises situated in the
Thibbotuwawa North Grama Niladhari Division in the
Aturaliya Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matara District,
Southern Province.
46. The Drip-ledged cave temple (Len Viharaya) with the rock
inscription in the Urumutta Rajjura Bandara Devalaya
premises in the Aturaliya Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Matara District, Southern Province.
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
47. All Drip-Ledged Caves, carved with Brahmi Letters, stone
staircase, Drains, Stupa, and the venue of stone pillars
(destructed) in Doluwawatta village situated in No. 189
Doluwa Grama Niladhari Division in the Ibbagamuwa
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North
Western Province.
48. The Tampita (built on stone piles) Image house belonging to
Hogawa, Torayaya Thambugala Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya
built on stone piles) situated in No. 726 Hegawa Grama
Niladhari Division in the Mallawapitiya Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
49. The ancient cave temple (Len Viharaya) belonging to the
Ganegoda Sanweli Raja Maha Viharaya premises situated in
Hanwella Arama Niki Dhari Division in the Maspotha
Divisional Secretary’s Division Kurunegala District, North
Western Province.
50. The Tampita Image house (built on stone Piles) belonging to
the Edandawela Raja Maha Viharaya premises situated in the
Edandawela Grama Niladhari Division in the Maspotha
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North
Western Province.
51. The Drip-Ledged Cave temple (Len Vihara) with Brahmi
letters Sangawasaya (dwelling house) Pohoya Geya ancient
Dhammasala (Preahing Hall) and drip-ledged caves belonging
to the Meddepola Weramuna Sri Sundararamaya alias
Meddepola Raja Maha Viharaya situated in No. 1569 Dhala
Meddepola Grama Niladhari Division in the Pannala  Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North Western
Province.
52. The Tampita Image House (Image house built on stone piles)
belonging to the Galayaya Sri Sudharamarama Purana Viharaya
premises, situated in the No. 1546 Ihala Galyaya Grama
Niladhari Division in the Pannala Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
53. The Tampita Image House (Image House built on stone piles)
and Hewisi Mandapaya belonging to the Yataththawela
Bodhiwansarama Purana Viharaya premises situated in No.
532 Yataththawela Grama Niladhari Division in the Pannala
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North
Western Province.
54. The Image house belonging to the Lihiniyagalla Saliya Raja
Maha Viharaya premises, situated in the Katugampola Grama
Niladhari Division in the Pannala Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
55. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone piles) belonging
to the Sunandarama Purana Viharaya premises situated in the
No. 1584 Talammehera Grama Niladhari Division in the
Pannala Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District,
North Western Province.
56. The foundation of the ancient Image House and the wall
belonging to the Bunnehepola Sri Sudharmarama Purana
Viharaya Premises situated in the No. 1501 Bunnehepola
Grama Niladhari Division in the Udubaddawa Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North Western
Province.
57. The hill inscription located in the land belonging to the
National Livestock Resources Board in the Silwathtenna
village in the No. 1162 Mukalanyaya Grama Niladhari Division

<!-- page 10 -->

1024 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
in the Kuliyapitiya Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
58. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone piles) belonging
to the Kohongaha Gedara Sri Bodhidramaramaya Viharaya
premises situated in the No. 1164, Kangahagedara Grama
Niladhari Division in the Kuliyapitiya  Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
59. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone  piles)
belonging to the Medagodawatte Uyanegama Sri Nagabodhi
Purana Viharaya premises situated in the No. 1101
Ketawelegedara Grama Niladhari Division in the Kuliyapitiya
West Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District,
North Western Province.
60. The ancient Dhamma Sala (Preaching Hall) Sangawasaya
(dwelling place) and two Rock Inscriptions, belonging to the
Annaruwa Sri Vijaya Sundararama Purana Viharaya premises
situated in No. 1149 Diyawala Grama Niladhari Division in
the Kuliyapitiya West Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
61. The Tampita Image house (Image house built on stone piles)
belonging to the Ganagamuwa Poorvarama Viharaya Premises
situated in the No. 1139 Ganagamuwa Grama Niladhari
Division in the Kuliyapitiya East Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
62. The Tampita Image House (Image house built on stone piles)
belonging to the Konduruwapola Raja Maha Viharaya premises
situated in No. 1140, Konduruwapola Grama Niladhari
Division in the Kuliyapitiya East Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
63. The Rock Inscription, stone pillar yard and drip-ledged caves
(len) belonging to the Maduwegala Aranya Sanasana premises
situated in the Moragaswewa Grama Niladhari Division in the
Mahawa Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District,
North Western Province.
64. The ancient Image house in the Ambagaswewa Purana Viharaya
premises situated in the No. 226 Galambagaswewa Grama
Niladhari Division in the Mahawa Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
65. The Cave Temple (Len Vihara) belonging to the Ratmale
Vihara Premises situated in the Piduruwella Grama Niladhari
Division in the Weerambugedara Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
66. The Cave Temple (Len Vihara) and the two drip-ledged caves
belonging to the Seruwewa Yakgirilen Viharaya premises
situated in the No. 767 Seruwewa Grama Niladhari Division
in the Kurunegala Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
67. The Cave Temple (Len Viharaya) and all drip-ledged caves
belonging to the Sangappalaya Wedasagiri Aranya Senasana
premises situated in the Sangappalaya Grama Niladhari
Division in the Giribewa Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
68. The Drip-ledged caves, the Bodhighara (Bodhi Tree Shrine)
and other ruins located at the Pundupulanchiya Archaeological
site situated in the Lassanganna Grama Niladhari Division in
the Galgamuwa Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
69. The Tampita Image House (Image house built on stone piles)
Thjeva Mandapaya and the wall belonging to the
Swarnabimbarama Purana Vihara premises, situated in the
No. 376, Kanoyaya Kahatavilagedera Grama Niladhari
Division in the Panduwasnuwara East Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
70. The Image house belonging to the Purana Viharaya premises
situated in the No. 1040 Sirigala Grama Niladhari Division in
the Narammala Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
71. The ancient chaitya and drip-ledged rock caves (Gal len)
belonging to the Niyadawane Raja Maha Viharaya situated in
the No. 358 Niyadawane Grama Niladhari Division in the
Polpithigama Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
72. Cave Temple (Len Viharaya) and all drip-ledged caves,
belonging to the palagama, Nayandanawa Raja Maha Viharaya
premises situated in the No. 373 Agare Grama Niladhari
Division in the Polpitigama Divisional  Secretary’s Division,
Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
73. The Tampita Viharaya, (Viharaya built on stone piles) in the
Hiripathwella Mayurawathi Sri Bodhirajarama Purana Raja
Maha Viharaya premises situated in the Hiripathwella Grama
Niladhari Division in the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
74. The Drip-ledged cave as the South-eastern slope of the
Kollura Kanda Mountain belonging to the Kollure village
situated in the No. 923, Kollure Grama Niladhari Division in
the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
75. The cave covering bearing pre-historic evidence, the Rock
summit with drain openings, building in ruins, the flight of
steps carved on the original rock and the rock plane in the
Mountain called Ellewela Galkanda belonging to Embelepola
village in the No. 956 Wadakade Grama Niladhari Division in
the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
76. The two drip-ledged caves, the rock bearing symbols and
other ruins in the Kollure Walagamba Purana Viharaya
premises in the No. 923 Kollura Grama Niladhari Division in
the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.

<!-- page 11 -->

1025I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
77. The drip ledged cave in the land named Aragoda Galagawa
Hena situated in the No. 925 Aragoda Grama Niladhari
Division in the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
78. The drip-ledged cave, the Cave Temple (Len Viharaya) and
Chaitya in the Puhuriya, Sri Arahatta Maliyadeva Raja Maha
Viharaya premises situated in the Morugama Grama Niladhari
Division in the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s Division,
in the Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
79. The rock inscirption, the drains carved on the original Rock
and the flight of steps at No. 935 Maligatenna at Balumgalo
to the east of Yogamuvakanda situated in the Meddelanda
Grama Niladhari Division in the Polgahawela Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North Western
Province.
80. The ancient Image House belonging to the Ganegoda Sri
Pushparama Viharaya Premises situated in the Ganegoda
South Grama Niladhari Division in the Polgahawela Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North Western
Province.
81. The drip-ledged cave and the stupa in ruins in the
Yogamuwakanda Belumgala Sri Samadhi Dharmayatanaya
premises situated in the Meddalanda Grama Niladhari Division
in the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
82. The Devategedara Wele Ambalama situated in the
Devategedara Grama Niladhari Division in the Polgahawela
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North
Western Province.
83. The drip-ledged cave (lena) at Egalla, Budugalahena situated
in the Egalla Grama Niladhari Division in the Polgahawela
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala District, North
Western Province.
84. The Godella (Hillock) and the two Ponds in ruins at the
Averiyagala Rock Plane situated in the Hiripathwella Grama
Niladhari Division in the Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Kurunegala District, North Western Province.
85. The Tampita Viharaya (Viharaya built on stone piles) in the
Sapugaskanda Sri Vijayasundararama Raja Maha Viharaya
situated in the Hinpathwella Grama Niladhari Division in the
Polgahawela Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
86. Ruins of the Kajuwatta Devalaya situated in the No. 1042
Dambadeniya South Grama Niladhari Division in the
Narammala Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kurunegala
District, North Western Province.
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
87. The Image House, Dharmasala (Preaching Hall) and
Pohoyageya belonging to the Kuddetiyawa Sri Sunandarama
Viharaya premises situated in the No. 499 A Kuddetiyawa
Grama Niladhari Division in the Nattandiya Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Puttalam District, North Western
Province.
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
88. The archaic building identified as “St. James”, belonging to the
Young Women’s Christian Association, Colombo situated at
No. 393, Union Place in the Ibbanwala Grama Niladhari
Division in the Colombo Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Colombo District, Western Province.
AMPARA  DISTRICT
89. The drip-ledged cave and Brahmi letters and the drip-ledged
cave at the Venue called Digavapya, Kotigala in the Kotigal
Grama Niladhari Division in the Egama Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Ampara District, Eastern Province.
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
90. Drip-ledged Cave Temple (Len Viharaya) belonging to the
Galnewa Raja Maha Viharaya situated in No. 477 Galnewa
Grama Niladhari Division in the Galnewa Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.
91. The two drip-ledged caves belonging to the Eppawela Galkanda
Purana Viharaya premises, situated in the No. 391,
Palugaswewagama Grama Niladhari Division in the Thalawa
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura District, North
Central Province.
92. The drip-ledged caves, Rock inscription and Chaitya Godella
(hillock) belonging to the Thammennagala Raja Maha Viharaya
premises situated in the No. 547, Indigahawewa Grama
Niladhari Division in the Talawa Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.
93. The ancient Dagoba and two drip-ledged caves, at Galyaya
situated in No. 408 Tissapura Grama Niladhari Division in the
Talawa Divisional Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura
District, North Central Province.
94. Ruwanmaduwa drip ledged caves situated in the No. 308,
Nelumvila Grama Niladhari Division in the Vilachchiya
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura District, North
Central Province.
95. Kinihira Vehera drip-ledged Caves situated in the
Pebbendiyawa Grama Niladhari Division in the Palagala
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura District, North
Central Province.
96. The ancient chaitya Godella (Hillock) situated in the
Heenukgala in the No. 418, Tambuttegama Grama Niladhari
Division in the Tambuttegama Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.

<!-- page 12 -->

1026 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
97. The ancient Dagoba, Image House, and four Ponds belonging
to the Makulewa Purana Rajamaha Viharaya premises situated
in No. 415, Makulewa Grama Niladhari Division, in the
Tambuttegama Divisional Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura
District, North Central Province.
98. Puliyankulama Podanagara Building situated in the No. 498,
Sangamwewa Grama Niladhari Division in the Ipalogama
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura District, North
Central Province.
99. The rock inscription at Thonigala rock wall situated in the
No. 519 Ihalalakagama Grama Niladhari Division in the
Ipalogama Divisional Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura
District, North Central Province.
100. The drip-ledged caves located at the Western end of the
Ihalakagama Rock wall situated in No. 519, Ihalakagama
Grama Niladhari Division in the Ipalogama Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura District, North Central
Province.
101. The drip ledged caves (Len) with Brahmi Letters at the Gallen
Raja Maha Viharaya premises, situated in 507 Aliwanguwa
Grama Niladhari Division Ipalogama Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.
102. The two drip-ledged caves at Annasigala Raja Maha Viharaya
premises, situated in No. 499, Puliyankulama Grama Niladhari
Division in the Ipologama Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.
103. The drip-ledged caves in the Tammennakanda Purana Viharaya
premises situated in No. 507, Galwanguwa Grama Niladhari
Division in the Ipologama Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.
104. The ancient sluice gate of the Panikkankulama Wewa situated
in No. 326, Katupattewa Grama Niladhari Division in the
Nochchiyagama Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Anuradhapura District, North Central Province.
GALLE  DISTRICT
105. The Chamber House with ancient paintings and Sculptur in
the Image house of the Medakeembiya Sri Kshetrarama
Purana Viharaya premises in the Medakeembiya Viharaya
premises in the Medakeembiya East Grama Niladhari Division
in the Baddegama Divisional Secretary’s Division, Galle
District, Southern Province.
GAMPAHA DISTRICT
106. The Malwana Fortress at Narangaskotuwa situated in
No. 413 Malwana Grama Niladhari Division, in the Weke
Divisional Secretary’s Division, Gampaha District, Western
Province.
07-706
POST  OFFICE  ORDINANCE
Notice under Section 45 (Authority 190) of the Post Office
Ordinance
All types of money orders issued from 01.01.1999 to 31.12.2000
A money order is valid for six months from the last day or the month
of its issue. Under exceptional circumstances the payment of a lapsed
money order is considered up to two years from the last day of the
month of it’s issue: a money order cannot be revalidated or refunded
after two years. The value of such money orders is credited to
Government Revenue.
2. However, under the following exceptional circumstances, the
value of a money order not claimed within two years could be
considered for refund from Government Revenue subject to the
recovery of relevant charges.
i. Money order being produced in a Court of law.
ii. The money order being retained in a Rent Control Board on
legal grounds.
iii. Payee of the money order being out of the country (the
passport should be produced).
iv. Payee being in a very bad state of health for a long period
(should be supported by a Medical Certificate from a
Government Medical Officer).
3. Under 2 i and ii above, if the money orders cannot be presented
within three months, the date of issue of the Gazette notification
relevant to this matter, details of such money orders with the
relevant case numbers should be informed to the Controller of
money order services in writing within three months, the date
of issue of the Gazette notification relevant to this matter.
4. It has been decided to consider refunds under paragraph  2 above
upto 31.12.2008 only in respect of money orders issued
between the period of 01.01.1999 to 31.12.2000. This applies
to Ordinary money orders as well as Telegraph money orders
and value payable money orders.
5. Hence, provincial Councils, Local Government Authorities
Rent Control Boards, State Corporations, Statutory Boards,
Government Institutions, Banks, Private Institutions and the
public are notified to forward their written requests for
consideration of refunds mentioned in para 2 above along with
the relevant money orders to “The Controller, money order
services, Transworks Building, Colombo 01, by registered
post on or before 31.12.2008.
6. Further, it is also notified that no claim for refunds after
31.12.2008 will be entertained in resfect of lapsed money
orders issued between the period of 01.01.1999 to 31.12.2000
and no refunds shall be made on them under any circumstances
and that the value of such money orders will be credited to
Government Revenue.

<!-- page 13 -->

1027I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
7. No refund shall be made on the money orders issued prior to
1998.12.31 under any circumstances.
MAHINDA WIJESEKARA,
Hon Minister of Posts/Telecommunication.
07-669
CLOSING   OF  MEDICAL  SUPPLIES  DIVISION  FOR
ANNUAL  VERIFICATION  AND  STOCK  TAKING
THE Medical Supplies Division will be closed from 01st December,
2009 to 31st December, 2009 (Both days inclusive) for the purpose
of Annual verification and Stock taking (only stores Complex).
All Provincial Directors of Health Services, Regional Directors of
Health Services, Directors of Teaching Hospitals, Directors of District
General Hospitals, Directors of Sepcialized Campaigns, Directors of
Medical Services of Security Forces (Army, Navy, Air Force and
Police), Officers in Charge of Central Dispensaries coming under the
purview of Central Government and other Relevant Officers should
kindly note that no requisitions will be entertained during this Period
except for urgent items and Narcotics Drugs.
D
R. A. M. S. WEERABANDARA,
Director,
Medical Supplies Division.
No. 357, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
8th July, 2009.
07-714
Miscellaneous Departmental Notices
PV 62916.
COMPANIES ACT, No. 07 OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of Ada
Cellworks (Private) Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Ada Cellworks
(Private) Limited a Company incorporated on 01.02.2008 under the
provisions of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 is not carrying on
business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Ada Cellworks (Private)
Limited, will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the
Register of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be
dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-586
PV 3980
.
COMPANIES ACT, No. 07 OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
Umar Traders (Private) Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Umar Traders
(Private) Limited a Company incorporated on 19.10.2006 under the
provisions of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 is not carrying on
business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Umar Traders (Private)
Limited, will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the
Register of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be
dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-587

<!-- page 14 -->

1028 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
PV 8623.
COMPANIES  ACT, No. 07  OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
Sabitha Associates (Private) Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Sabitha
Associates (Private) Limited a Company incorporated on 11.02.1998
under the provisions of the Companies Act, No. 17 of  1982  is not
carrying on business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Sabitha Associates (Private)
Limited, will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the
Register of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be
dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-588
PV 62609
.
COMPANIES  ACT, No. 07  OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
Keihin Lanka (Private) Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Keihin Lanka
(Private) Limited a Company incorporated on 04.01.2008 under the
provisions of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 is not carrying on
business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Keihin Lanka (Private)
Limited, will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the
Register of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be
dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-589
PV 61751
.
COMPANIES  ACT, No. 07  OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
Aitken Spence Power Kerawalapitiya (Private) Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Aitken Spence
Power Kerawalapitiya (Private) Limited a Company incorporated
on 18.10.2007 under the provisions of the Companies Act, No. 07
of 2007 is not carrying on business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Aitken Spence Power
Kerawalapitiya (Private) Limited, will unless cause is shown to the
contrary, be struck off the Register of Companies kept in this office
and the Company will be dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-590
PV 8196
.
COMPANIES ACT, No. 07 OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
International Business Ventures Engineering (Private)
Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, International
Business Ventures Engineering (Private) Limited a Company
incorporated on 22.07.2004 under the provisions of the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982 is not carrying on business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of International Business
Ventures Engineering (Private) Limited, will unless cause is shown
to the contrary, be struck off the Register of Companies kept in this
office and the Company will be dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-592

<!-- page 15 -->

1029I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
PV 64659.
COMPANIES  ACT, No. 07  OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
Venturi  Hydro Power (Pvt) LTD.
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Venturi Hydro
Power (Pvt) Ltd., a Company incorporated on 01.07.2008 under the
provisions of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 is not carrying on
business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Venturi Hydro Power (Pvt)
Ltd., will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the
Register of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be
dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-591
PV 61262
.
COMPANIES  ACT, No. 07  OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
 Rav  Creation (Private) Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Rav Creation
(Private) Limited a Company incorporated on 05.09.2007 under the
provisions of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 is not carrying on
business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Rav Creation (Private)
Limited, will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the
Register of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be
dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-593
 PB 443
.
COMPANIES ACT, No. 07 OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
C. T. C. (Exports) Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, C. T. C.
(Exports) Limited a Company incorporated on 17.07.1980 under the
provisions of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 145), is not carrying
on business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of C. T. C. (Exports) Limited,
will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the Register
of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-595
PV 60154
.
COMPANIES  ACT, No. 07  OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
Industrial Clothings Exports Trading House (Private)
Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Industrial
Clothings Exports Trading House (Private) Limited a Company
incorporated on 05.06.2007 under the provisions of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007 is not carrying on business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Industrial Clothings Exports
Trading House (Private) Limited, will unless cause is shown to the
contrary, be struck off the Register of Companies kept in this office
and the Company will be dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-594

<!-- page 16 -->

1030 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
PB 3571.
COMPANIES ACT, No. 07 OF 2007
Notice under Section 394 (3) to strike off the Name of
Spence Global Logistics Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Spence Global
Logistics Limited a Company incorporated on 07.10.2008 under the
provisions of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 is not carrying on
business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunaratne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394 (3) of the Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Spence Global Logistics
Limited, will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the
Register of Companies kept in this office and the Company will be
dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No. 400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June, 2009.
07-596
PB 3553.
COMPANIES ACT,  No. 07 OF 2007
Notice under Section 394(3) to strike off the Name of
Lanka Orix  Insurance Company Limited
WHEREAS there is reasonable cause to believe that, Lanka Orix
Insurance Company Limited a Company incorporated on 16.07.2008
under the provisions of the Companies Act, No.07 of 2007 is not
carrying on business or in operation.
Now know you that I, Dias Karunarathne Hettiarachchi, Registrar
General of Companies, acting under Section 394(3) of the Companies
Act No.07 fo 2007, do hereby give notice that at the expiration of
three months from this date the name of Lanka Orix Insurance
Company Limited, will unless cause is shown to the contrary, be
struck off the Register of Companies kept in this office and the
Company will be dissolved.
D. K. H
ETTIARACHCHI ,
Registrar General of Companies.
Department of Registrar of Companies,
No.400, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
30th June 2009.
07-597
PEOPLE’S   BANK—GALLE   MAIN  STREET  BRANCH
Resolution under Section 29D of the People’s Bank Act,
No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No. 32 of 1986
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was unanimously
passed by the Board of Directors of the People’s Bank under section
29D of the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the
Act, No. 32 of 1986 at their meeting held on 24.04.2009.
Whereas Athukorala Arachchige Sandamali  Uduwaka Hewage
Lakshman Kulatunga has made default in payment due on the
Bond No. 742 dated 30.06.2007 attested by Ajantha Kapugamage,
Notary Public of Galle in favour of People’s Bank and there is
now due and owing to the People’s Bank  a sum of Rupees Seven
Hundred and Fifty Thousand and Cents Ten   (Rs. 750,000/10)
on the said Bond. The Board of Directors of the People’s Bank
under the powers vested in them by the People’s Bank, Act,
No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No. 32 of 1986 do hereby
resolve that the property and premises mortgage to the said Bank
by the said Bond No. 742 be sold by Public Auction by G. P.
Ananda, Licensed Auctioneer for recovery of the sum of Rupees
Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand and Cents Ten
(Rs. 750,000.10) with further interest on Rupees of Rupees
Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand and Cents Ten
(Rs. 750,000.10) at 20.5% per centum per annum from 19.11.2007
to date of sale and costs and moneys recoverable under section
’29L’ of the said People’s Bank Act, less payment (if any) since
received.
DESCRIPTION OF THE MORTGAGE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 07 of
the land called Puwakgaha Kanattewatta, together with all the
buildings, plantations and everything else standing thereon and
situated at Kapuhenpola within the Four Gravets of Galle, Galle
District, Southern Province and which said Lot 7 is bounded on the
North by V. C. Road to Godaduwa more correctly Road from
Welipotha to Akmeemana, East by Lot 8 of the same land South by
Lot 9 and on the West by Lot 6 of the same land and containing in
extent Twenty Six decimal Eight Two Perches (0A, 0R, 26.82P) as
per Plan No. 58A dated 03rd and 09th July, 1942 made by D. G. H.
Dias Licensed Surveyor and registered under B 124/287 at Galle
District Land Registry.
In more recent surveyor Plan No. 1130 dated 30.05.2005 made
by K. D. N. Weerasinghe Licensed Surveyor the aforesaid land is
described as follows :
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 07 of
the land called Puwakgaha Kanattewatta, together with all the
buildings, plantations and everything else standing thereon and
situated at Kapuhenpola within the Four Gravets of Galle, Galle
District, Southern Province and which said Lot 7 is bounded on the
North by V. C. Road from Welipotha to Akmeemana, East by Lot
8 of the same land South by Lot 9 and on the West by Lot 6 of the
same land and containing in extent Twenty Six decimal Eight Two

<!-- page 17 -->

1031I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Perches (0A, 0R, 26.82P) as per Plan No. 1130 dated 30.05.2005
made by K. D. N. Weerasinghe Licensed Surveyor and registered
under B 191/85 at Galle District Land Registry.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
 Regional Manager,
Galle.
People’s Bank,
Regional Head Office,
No. 22, Lower Dickson Road,
Galle.
07-691
HOUSING  DEVELOPMENT  FINANCE
CORPORATION  BANK  OF  SRI  LANKA
Resolution under Section 4 of Recovery of Loans by Banks
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1990 as amended
Loan No. : 2500001637.
WHEREAS Hewa Pedige Anura Karunarathna has made default in
payment due on the Bond No. 107 dated 25.10.2004 attested by
U. I. Hettiarachchi, Notary Public of Kegalle in favour of Housing
Development Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, duly
established under the Housing Development Finance Corporation
Bank (Special Provisions), Act, No. 7 of 1997 amended by Housing
Development Finance Corporation Act, No. 15 of 2003. (herein after
referred as “the Bank”) and a sum of Rupees Two Hundred Sixty
Eight Thousand & Five Hundred Seventy Nine & Cents Thrity-
Seven (Rs. 268,579.37) is due and owing to the Housing Development
Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, as at 31.12.2008, on the said
Mortgage Bond.
The Board of Directors of Housing Development Finance
Corporation Bank, of Sri Lanka, under the powers vested by
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of
1990 had resolved on 27th day of January, 2009 that the property
and premises morefully described in the Schedule hereto and
mortgaged under the said Bond, to Housing Development Finance
Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, be sold by Public Auction by
I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer for recovery of moneys
mentioned hereunder.
1. Rupees Two Hundred Thirty Nine Thousand & Two Hundred
Fifty & Cents Fifty-Two (Rs. 239,250.52) being the total
unpaid portion of the said loan, together with the interest in
a sum of Rupees Twenty Nine Thousand & Three Hundred
Twenty Eight & Cents Eighty-Five (Rs. 29,328.85) due as at
31.12.2008 totaling to Rupees Two Hundred Sixty Eight
Thousand & Five Hundred Seventy Nine & Cents Thrity-
Seven (Rs. 268,579.37)
2. Further interest at the rate of 17.00% per annum due on the
said sum of Rupees Two Hundred Thirty Nine Thousand &
Two Hundred Fifty & Cents Fifty-Two (Rs. 239,250.52)
from 01.01.2009 up to the date of auction (Both dates
inclusive).
3. All monies and costs recoverable under section 13 of the
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 4 of 1990.
SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 38
depicted in Plan No. P. P. Ke. 23  dated 18.03.2004 and 63-May-
64 January made by  Surveyor General from and out of the land called
and known as  Pussahena situated in the village of Erabaduwala in
Dehigampal Korale of Patha Bulathgama in the District of Kegalle,
Sabaragamuwa Province and which said Lot 38 is bounded according
to the said Plan, on the North  by : Lot 37 of the said Plan, on the
East by Road way marked as Lot 49 of the said Plan, on the South
by : Lot 39, and on the West by : Road way marked as Lot 19 of the
said Plan, and containing in extent One Rood and Twenty Two
Perches (0A, 1R, 22P) together with the building, plantation and
everything standing thereon and registered in b. i. wd. S 8$22 at the
Avissawella Land Registry.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
 General Manager.
07-712
HOUSING  DEVELOPMENT  FINANCE
CORPORATION  BANK  OF  SRI  LANKA
Resolution under Section 4 of Recovery of Loans by Banks
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1990 as amended
Loan No. : 2503300131.
WHEREAS Wickrama Arachchilage Piyasena Wickrama Arachchi
has made default in payment due on the Bond No. 1,533 dated
18.04.1996 attested by F. D. N. Jayasinghe, Notary Public of
Rambukkana in favour of Housing Development Finance Corporation,
duly established under the Housing Development Finance
Corporation, Act, No. 7 of 1997 (herein after referred as the
Corporation) and now it is due and owing to the Housing Development
Finance Corporation, as at 31.03.2003, One Hundred Fifteen
Thousand Eight Hundred Sixty Six & Nineteen Cents
(Rs. 115,866.19) on the said Mortgage Bond.
The Board of Directors of Housing Development Finance
Corporation,  under the powers vested by Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1990 do hereby resolve
that the property and premises morefully described in the
Schedule hereto and mortgaged to Housing Development Finance
Corporation, to be sold by Public Auction by W. M. I. Gallella,
Auctioneer for recovery of monies mentioned hereunder (less
payments (if any) since received.

<!-- page 18 -->

1032 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
1. Sum Rupees Ninety Two Thousand & Seven Hundred Eleven
& Seventy Nine Cents (Rs. 92,711.79) being the whole unpaid
portion of the said loan, together with the interest in a sum of
Rupees Twenty Three Thousand & One Hundred Fifty Four
& Forrty Four Cents (Rs. 23,154.44) due three on up to the
date of  31.03.2003 totaling in aggregate Rupees One Hundred
Fifteen Thousand Eight Hundred Sixty-six and Nineteen
Cents (Rs. 115,866.19).
2. Further interest due on the said sum of Rupees Ninety-two
Thousand & Seven Hundred Eleven & Seventy Nine Cents
(Rs. 92,711.79) at the rate of 15.00% per annum, from
01.04.2003 up to the date of auction (Both dates inclusive).
3. All monies and costs recoverable under section 13 of the
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 4 of 1990.
SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 1
depicted in Plan No. 866  dated 06.02.1995 made by A. C. P.
Gunasena Licensed Surveyor of the land called Hitinawatta situated
at Mangedera within the Pradeshiya Sabha Limits of Warakapola in
Beligal Korale, Otara Pattuwa Kegalle District Sabaragamuwa
Province and which said Lot 1 is bounded on the North by:
Medilanda Watta, on the East by : Lot 2 in this land, on the South
by Lot 3 of this land and on the West by : V. C. Road leading from
the Main Road and Live and Wire Fence containing in extent Twenty
Five Decimal Six Two Perches (0A, 0P, 25.62P) together with
everything standing thereon and registered under Title
No. E 1012/76 at Kegalle Land Registry.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
 General Manager.
At Colombo on this 29th Day of April, 2003.
07-711
HOUSING  DEVELOPMENT   FINANCE CORPORATION
BANK    OF   SRI    LANKA
Resolution under Section 4 of Recovery of Loans by Banks
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1990 as amended
Loan No. : 2500000596.
WHEREAS Noronsuhalu Sumedha Sanjeewa has made default in
payment due on the Bond No. 1,223 dated 26.12.1997 attested by
K. Disanayaka, Notary Public of Colombo in favour of Housing
Development Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, duly
established under the Housing Development Finance Corporation
Bank (Special Provisions), Act, No. 7 of 1997 amended by Housing
Development Finance Corporation Act, No. 15 of 2003. (herein after
referred as “the Bank”) and a sum of Rupees Ninety Eight Thousand
& Four Hundred Twenty Seven & Cents Seventy-Nine
(Rs. 98,427.79) is due and owing to the Housing Development
Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, as at 28.02.2007, on the said
Mortgage Bond.
The Board of Directors of Housing Development Finance
Corporation Bank, of Sri Lanka, under the powers vested by
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of
1990 had resolved on 10th day of May, 2007 that the property
and premises morefully described in the Schedule hereto and
mortgaged under the said Bond, to Housing Development Finance
Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, be sold by Public Auction by
W. M. I. Gallella, Licensed Auctioneer for recovery of moneys
mentioned hereunder.
1. Rupees Fifty-Six Thousand & Six Hundred Thirty-Eight and
Cents Sixty-Eight (Rs. 56,638.68) being the total unpaid
portion of the said loan, together with the interest in a sum of
Rupees Fourty One Thousand & Seven Hundred Eighty Nine
& Cents Eleven (Rs. 41,789.11) due as at 28.02.2007 totaling
to Rupees Ninety Eight Thousand & Four Hundred Twenty
Seven & Cents Seventy-Nine (Rs. 98,427.79).
2. Further interest at the rate of 17.00% per annum due on the
said sum of Rupees Fifty Six Thousand & Six Hundred Thirty
eight & Cents Sixty Eight (Rs. 56,638.68) from 01.03.2007 up
to the date of auction (Both dates inclusive).
3. All monies and costs recoverable under section 13 of the
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 4 of 1990.
SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 64
depicted in Plan No. 1651 A dated 15.10.1996 made by B. H. A. De
Silva Licensed Surveyor from and out of the land called and known
as Kandegadara Estate situated in the villages of Kandegedara and
Methangare, in Katugampola Hatpattu of Meddekatiya Korale in
the District of Kurunegala North Western Province and which said
Lot 64 is bounded on the North by : Road reservation marked as Lot
R 10, on the East by : Lot 61, on the South by Lot 63, and on the West
by : Lot 65 and containing in extent Fifteen Perches (0A, 0R, 15P)
together with the buildings, plantations and everything standing
thereon and the right of ways over and along Lots R 1 to R 34 of the
said Plan. and Registered in N 85/101 at the Kuliyapitiya Land
Registry.
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 65
depicted in Plan No. 1651 A dated 15.10.1996 made by B. H. A. De
Silva Licensed Surveyor from and out of the land called and known
as Kandegadara Estate situated in the villages of Kandegedara and
Methangare, in Katugampola Hatpattu of Meddekatiya Korale in
the District of Kurunegala North Western Province and which said
Lot 65 is bounded on the North by : Road reservation marked as Lot
R 10, on the East by : Lots 64, on the South by Lot 66, and on the
West by : Lots 68 and 69 and containing in extent Fifteen Perches
(0A, 0R, 15P) together with the buildings, plantations and everything

<!-- page 19 -->

1033I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
standing thereon and the right of ways over and along Lots R 1 to
R 34 of the said Plan. and Registered in N 85/102 at the Kuliyapitiya
Land Registry.
By  order of the Board of Directors,
 General Manager.
07-710
SAMPATH     BANK     PLC
(Formerly known as Sampath Bank Ltd.)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank PLC under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 0035 5001 6752.
AT a meeting held on 26th January, 2006 by the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank Limited it was resoved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Lalani Ponnamperuma and Gamini Padmananda
Weerakkody both of “Weerakelum”, Court Road, Elpitiya in the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as the Obligors and
said Gamini Padmanada Weerakkody of “Weerakelum”, Court
Road, Elpitiya aforesaid as the Mortgagor have made default in
payment due on the Mortgage Bond No.245 dated 20th December,
2001 attested by S. D. Hewavitharana of Matara Notary Public
in favour of Sampath Bank Limited and there is now due and
owing to Sampath Bank Limited as at 07th November, 2005 a sum
of Rupees One Million One Hundred and Twenty-One Thousand
Five Hundred and Thirty-four and Cents Twenty-Six only
(Rs. 1,121,534.26) of lawful money of Sri Lanka being the total
amount outstanding on the said Bond and the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank Limited under the powers vested by the
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04
of 1990 do hereby resolve that the property and premises
morefully described in the Sechedule hereto mortgaged to Sampath
Bank Limited by the said Bond bearing No. 245 to be sold in public
auction by I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer of Kandy for
the recovery of the said sum of Rupees One Million One Hundred
and Twenty-One Thousand Five Hundred and Thirty-Four and
cents Twenty-Six only (Rs. 1,121,534.26) together with further
interest on a sum of Rupees Three Hundred and Seventeen
Thousand only (Rs. 317,000) at the rate of Twelve per centum
(12%) per annum and a further interest on a further sum of Rupees
Five Hundred and Ninety-Nine Thousand Six Hundred and
Seventy-Nine and Cents Sixty only (Rs. 599,679.60) at the rate
of Twenty-three per centum (23%) per annum from 08th
November, 2005 to date of sale together with costs of advertising
and other charges incurred less payments (if any) since received.
SCHEDULE
All that the divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot A
depicted in Plan No. 3054 dated 13th June, 2001 made by K. W.
Pathirana, Licensed Surveyor of the land called Deeyawitikanda
situated at Wallambagala in Bentota Walallawita Korale East of Galle
District Southern Province and which said Lot A is bonded on the
North by former Lot 212, L. D. O. (Lot Nos.) allotments Lot 306
and 354, 20 feet Roads, 310, 321, 322 and 334 (New Lot Nos. of the
same land) on the East by former 212, New Lot Nos. 354, 322, 334,
422 and 419 of the same land, on the South by : Lot 209, 210 and 417
of the same land and on the West by Lots 385, 386, 377, 381, 209
and 210 of the same land and containing in extent Nineteen Acres
Three Roods and Thirty-three perches (19A., 3R., 33P.) (8.076
Hec.) together with the soil, trees, plantations, buildings and
everything else standing thereon and registered at Land Registry,
Balapitiya in L. D. O.
By order of the Board,
Company Secretary.
07-734/6
HATTON  NATIONAL  BANK   PLC—NUWARA ELIYA
BRANCH
(Formerly known as Hatton National Bank Ltd)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Hatton
National Bank PLC under Section 4 of the recovery of
Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
AT a meeting of the Board of Directors of Hatton National Bank PLC
held on 28th May, 2009 it was resolved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Haththotuwa Gamage Pasan Himalaka as the obligor
has made default in payment on Bond No. 729 dated 2nd
September, 2005 attested by M. S. Perera, Notary Public of
Kandy in favour of Hatton National Bank PLC and there is now
due and owing to the Hatton National Bank PLC as at 28th
February, 2009 a sum of Rupees Seven Hundred and Ninety-one
Thousand and Two and Cents Thirty-Three only
(Rs. 791,002.33) on the said Bond and the Board of Directors of
Hatton Bank PLC under the power vested by the recovery of
loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1990, do
hereby resolve that the property and premises morefully described
in the Schedule, hereto and mortgaged to Hatton National Bank
PLC by the said Bond No. 729 be sold by Public Auction by
I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer of Colombo for recovery
of the said sum of Rs. 791,002.33 together with further interest
from 01st March 2009 to date of sale together with costs of
advertising and other charges incurred less payments (if any)
since received.
SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 6B
depicted in Plan No. 467 dated 15th July, 1962 made by W. M.
Perera, Licensed Surveyor bearing Assessment No. 537, Nuwara
Eliya Road situated at Lindula Village within the Urban Council

<!-- page 20 -->

1034 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Limits of Talawakelle Lindula in Dimbula Korale of Kotmale
Division in the District of Nuawara Eliya Central Province and
bounded on the North by Bellgravia Estate, on the East by Lot 7 of
Plan No. 467 on the South-west  by main road, on the North-west
by Lot 6A in Plan No. 467 and containing in extent one decimal nine
one perches (0A., 0R.., 1.91P.) together with the building and
everything else standing thereon and registered under Volume/Folio
O 188/96 at the District Land Registry Nuwara Eliya.
Aforesaid Lot 6B has been recently surveyed and described as
follows :
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 1
depicted in Plan No. 370B dated 23rd January, 2003 made by H. M.
Samaranayake, Licensed Surveyor bearing Assessment No. 537,
Nuwara Eliya road situated at Lindula Village within the Urban
Council Limits of Talawakelle Lindula in Dimbula Korale of Kotmale
Division in the District of Nuwara Eliya Central Province and
bounded on the North by main road and remaining portion of Lot 6
in Plan No. 467 and Bellgravia Estate, on the East by Lot 7 in Plan
No. 467 and Bellgravia Estate, on the South by main road and Lot
7 in Plan No. 467, on the West by main road and remaining portion
of Lot 6A in Plan No. 467.
And containing in extent one decimal nine one perches (0A., 0R.,
1.91P.) together with the building and everything else standing
thereon.
By order of the Board,
I
NDRANI GOONESEKERA,
DGM (Legal) Board Secretary.
07-723/1
BANK  OF  CEYLON
Notice under Section 21 of the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance
(Chapter 397) as amended by Act, No. 34 of 1968 and Law,
No. 10 of 1974
MORTGAGED Properties at No. 31 and No. 31/1, Wilgoda Road,
Wilgoda for the liabilities of Mrs. Thilakeratne Mudiyanselage
Janaki Malkanthi Thilakarathne and Mr. Lansakara Herath
Mudiyanselage Dharmaratne of No. 31/1, Wilgoda Road, Kurunegala.
At the meetings held on 26th February, 2009 and 25th June
2009 the Board of Directors of this Bank resolved specially and
unanimously.
1. That a sum of Rupees Six Million One Hundred and Thirty
Two Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventy Seven and cents
Thirty Five (Rs. 6,132,977.35) is due from Mrs. Thilakerathne
Mudiyanselage Janaki Malkanthi Thilakaratne and
Mr. Lansakara Herath Mudiyanselage Dharmaratne both at
No. 31/1, Wilgoda Road, Kurunegala on account of principal
and interest outstanding on the Loan up to 31.01.2009
together with further interst on Rupees Four Million Five
Hundred and Eighty Eighty Thousand Four Hundred and
Ninety Three and cents Sixty Two (Rs. 4,588,493.62) only
at the rate of 25.0% per annum from 01.02.2009 till date of
payment on the Mortgage Bonds No. 174 dated 12.11.1996
attested by R. M. K. S. M. Ratnayake Notary Public,
No. 7193 dated 28.04.2000 attested by Vasantha Amarasekera
Notary Public, No. 7195 dated 28.04.2000 attested by
Vasantha Amarasekera Notary Public, No. 6939 dated
31.05.2002 attested by Edmond Kularatne  Notary Public,
and No. 11059 dated 05.01.2007 attested by Edmond
Kularatne  Notary Public.
2. That in terms of Section 19 of Bank of Ceylon Ordinance
(Cap. 397) and its amendments, M/s. Scokman and
Samerawickrema the Reputed Pioneer Chartered Auctioneers
at No. 290, Havelock Road, Colombo 5 be authorized and
empowered to sell by Public Auctions the properties
mortgaged to the Bank of Ceylon and described in the
Schedules hereunder for the recovery of the said sum of
Rupees Six Million One Hundred and Thirty Two Thousand
Nine Hundred and Seventy Seven and cents Thirty Five
(Rs. 6,132,977.35) is due on the aforesaid Bonds Numbers
174, 7193, 7195, 6939 and 11059 together with interest as
aforesaid from 01.02.2009 to date of sale and costs and monies
recoverable under Section 26 of the said Bank of Ceylon
Ordinance and that the Relationship Manager (Recovery-
Corporate) of the Bank of Ceylon to publish notice of this
resolution in terms of Section 21 of the said Bank of Ceylon
Ordinance.
SCHEDULE
1. All that divided and defined allotment of land depicted as Lot
3 in Plan No. 5707 dated 02nd April 1994 made by S.T.
Gunasekera, Licensed Surveyor of the land called ‘Wilgoda
Mill’ bearing Assessment No. 31/1, Wilgoda Road, situated
at Wilgoda within the Municipal Council Limits of the
Kurunegala Town in Thiragandahaye Korale of Weuda Willi
Hatpattu in the District of Kurunegala of the North Western
Province and bounded on the North and North-east by Lots
2 and 1, South and South-East by Lot 1 and land of W. N.
Jayasuriya and Assessment No. 45/8, Wilgoda Road of V. A.
Sangadasa containing in extent Twenty Perches (0A.,0R.,20P.)
together with everything thereon and registered in A 1424/271
at the Kurunegala Land Registry.
Together with the right to use the Right of way, depictred as
Lot 2 in the said Plan No. 5707, of the said land called ‘Wilgoda
Mill’ situated at Wilgoda aforesaid and bounded on the North-
east by Wilgoda Road, East and South-East by Lot 1, South-
west by Lot 3, North-west by Assessment No. 35, Wilgoda
Road of V. A. Sangadasa containing in exent Two Perches
(0A,0R.,02P) and registered in A 1632/04 at the Kurunegala
land Registry.
2. All that divided and defined allotemnt of land depicted as Lot
1 in Plan No. 5707 aforesaid of the land called ‘Wilgoda Mills’
aforesaid  situated at Wilgoda Road within the Municipal

<!-- page 21 -->

1035I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Council Limits of Kurunegala Town and bounded according
to the said Plan on the North-east by Wilgoda Road, South-
East by land of W. N. Jayasuriyg, South-west by Lot 3 in the
said Plan bearing Assessment No. 31/1, North -west by Lot
2 in the said Pla being a road of 10 feet wide, containing in extent
Eighteen Perchs (0A.,0R.,18P.) and bearing Assessment
No. 31 together with everything thereon and Registered in
A 1632/05 at the Kurunegala Land Registry.
By order of the Board of Directors of the Bank of Ceylon,
H. M. T
HILEKARATNEBAND ,
Relationship Manager.
Bank of Ceylon,
Recovery Corporate Unit,
3rd Floor, HOB
No. 4 Bank of Ceylon Mawatha,
Colombo 01.
29th June, 2009.
07-741
HATTON  NATIONAL  BANK  PLC—BADULLA
BRANCH
(Formerly known as Hatton National Bank Ltd)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Hatton
National Bank PLC under Section 4 of the recovery of
Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
AT a meeting of the Board of Directors of Hatton National Bank PLC
held on 28th May, 2009 it was resolved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Kasige Daminda De Silva as the obligor has made
default in payment on Bond No. 447 dated 1st January, 2007
attested by H. Rajapakshe, Notary Public of Badulla in favour
of Hatton National Bank PLC and there is now due and owing to
the Hatton National Bank PLC as at 30th October, 2008 a sum
of Rupees Seven Million Four Hundred and Twenty-four
Thousand One Hundred and Three and Cents Seventy-seven
Only (Rs. 7,424,103.77) on the said Bond and the Board of
Directors of Hatton Bank PLC under the power vested by the
recovery of loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of
1990, do hereby resolve that the property and premises morefully
described in the Schedule, hereto and mortgaged to Hatton
National Bank PLC by the said Bond No. 447 be sold by Public
Auction by I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer of Colombo
for recovery of the said sum of Rs. 7,424,103.77 together with
further interest from 31st October, 2008 to date of sale together
with costs of advertising and charges incurred less payments (if
any) since received.
SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 1
depicted in Plan No. 1390 dated 22nd November 2006 made by
M. F. F. Ismail, Licensed Surveyor from and out of the land called
“Warakawewatta alias Warakawe-Agatha”, Kings Theatre and
Premises together with the building and everything standing thereon
bearing Assessment Nos. 18, D/18/1, D/18/1/1 and D/18/1/2,
Dharmadutha Road situated within Municipal Council Limits  of
Badulla in the District of Badulla, Uva Province and which said Lot
1 is bounded on the North by Dharmapala Road separated by
Masonry Drain, on the East by Lot 2, on the South by Lot 3 and on
the West by Badulla Dharmadutha College and premises separated
by covered masonry drain and containing in extent Eighteen Decimal
Seven five perches (0A., 0R., 18.75P) according to the said Plan
No. 1390 dated 22nd November, 2006 made by M. F. F. Ismail,
Licensed Surveyor and registered in A 90/248 at the District Land
Registry of Badulla.
By order of the Board,
I
NDRANI GOONESEKERA,
DGM (Legal) Board Secretary.
07-723/2
SAMPATH     BANK     PLC
(Formerly known as Sampath Bank Ltd.)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank PLC under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 0040 1000 3224.
AT a meeting held on 30th December, 2008 by the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank Limited it was resolved specially and unanimously:
Whereas J. K. R. Viduranga Hotels (Private) Limited a
Company duly incorporated under the Companies Laws of Sri
Lanka and having its registered office at No. 793, Bloemendhal
Road, Colombo 15, presently at No. 129/1, Nawala Road,
Colombo 05 in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
the Obligor has made default in the repayment of the credit
facilities granted against the security of the property and premises
morefully decribed in the Schedule hereto mortgaged and
hypothecated by the Mortgage Bond No. 666 dated 12th July,
2007 attested by C. G. Bandara of Colombo, Notary Public, in
favour of Sampath Bank PLC holding Company No. PQ 144 and
there is now due and owing to Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid as
at 30th June, 2008 a sum of Rupees Fifteen Million Eight
Hundred and Twenty-six Thousand Seven Hundred and Twenty
and cents Six only (Rs. 15,826,720.06) of lawful money of Sri
Lanka being the total amount outstanding on the said Bond and
the Board of Directors of Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid under the
powers vested by the Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990 do hereby resolve that the
property and premises morefully described in the Sechedule
hereto mortgaged to Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid as security for
the said credit facilities by the said Bond bearing No. 666 to be
sold in public auction by Schokman and Samarawickrame, Licensed
Auctioneers of Colombo for the recovery of the said sum of

<!-- page 22 -->

1036 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Rupees Fifteen Million Eight Hundred and Twenty-six Thousand
Seven Hundred and Twenty and cents Six only (Rs. 15,826,720.06)
together with further interest on a sum of Rupees Fourteen
Million Three Hundred and Seventy-four Thousand only (Rs.
14,374,000) at the rate of Eighteen per centum (18%) per annum
from 01st July, 2008 to date of satisfaction of the total debt due
upon the said Bond bearing No. 666 together with costs of
advertising and other charges incurred less payemnts (if any)
since received.
THE SCHEDULE
All that the divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 7
depicted in Plan No. 796/2005 dated 20th November, 2005 made by
K. Kannangara, Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Pillewa
Kumbura Owita” together with the soil, trees, plantations, building
and everything else standing thereon and together with all rights,
ways, privileges, easements, servitudes and appurtenances thereto
belonging presently bearing Assessment No. 129/1, Narahenpita
Road situated at Narahenpita within the Municipal Council Limits
of Colombo in the District of Colombo Western Province and which
said Lot 7 is bounded on the North by Kajugaha Owita, Government
Dairy Farm, on the Farm on the East by Ganjimma Owita, Government
Dairy Farm, on the South by Lots 6, Estate of Ranatunghe and Lot
8 (20ft. wide Road) in Plan No. 255 and on the West by Lot A in Plan
No. 536 of ramasamy and Sons and containing in extent Twenty-five
decimal Seven perches (0A., 0R., 25.7P.) according to the said Plan
No. 796/2005.
Which said Lot 7 is a resurvey of the land morefully described
below:
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 7
depicted in Plan No. 255 dated 22nd February, 1961 made by
S. Kumaraswamy, Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Pillewa
Kumbura Owita” together with soil, trees, plantations, buildings and
everything else standing thereon bearing Assessment No. 129/1,
Narahenpita Road situated at Narahenpita aforesaid and which said
Lot 7 is bounded on the North by Kajugaha Owita, Government
Dairy Farm, on the East by Ganjimma Owita, Government Dairy
Farm, on the South by Lots 6 and 8, on the West by Lot A in Plan
No. 536 of Ramasamy and Sons and containing in extent Twenty-
five decimal Seven perches (0A., 0R., 25.7P.) according to the said
Plan No. 255 and registered in Volume/Folio A 1101/188 at the Land
Registry Colombo.
Together with the right of way over and along:
Lot 8 (Reservation for Road) depicted in the said Plan No. 255
and registered in A 1077/215 at the Land Registry Colombo.
By order of the Board,
Company Secretary.
07-734/7
SAMPATH     BANK     PLC
(Formerly known as a Sampath Bank Ltd.)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank PLC under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 0090 5000 0815.
AT a meeting held on 24th July, 2008 by the Board of Directors of
Sampath Bank Limited it was resoved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Yaddehige Anil Chandika of No. 36, Sakvithi Uyana,
Moragollewa, presently of No. 36, Sakvithi Uyana, Moragollewa,
Dambulla in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as the
Obligor has made default in the repayment of the credit facilities
granted against the security of the property and premises
morefully decribed in the Schedule hereto mortgaged and
hypothecated by the Mortgage Bond No. 1208 dated 19th
March, 2007 attested by A. J. Bandara of Kurunegala, Notary
Public, in favour of Sampath Bank Limited now known as
Sampath Bank PLC re registered under companies Act, No. 7 of
2007 and holding Company No. PQ 144 and there is now due and
owing to Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid as at 11th April, 2008 a
sum of Rupees One Million Two Hundred Ninety-two Thousand
One Hundred and Eighty-five and cents Eighty-one only
(Rs. 1,292,185.81) of lawful money of Sri Lanka being the total
amount outstanding on the said Bond and the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid under the powers vested by the
Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04
of 1990 do hereby resolve that the property and premises
morefully described in the Sechedule hereto mortgaged to Sampath
Bank PLC aforesaid as security for the said credit facility by the
said Bond bearing No. 1208 to be sold in public auction by I. W.
Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneers of Kandy for the recovery of
the said sum of Rupees One Million Two Hundred Ninety-two
Thousand One Hundred and Eighty-five and cents Eighty-one
only (Rs. 1,292,185.81) together with further interest on a sum
of Rupees Nine Hundred and Eighty-four Thousand Five Hundred
and Sixty-four and cents Eighty-two only (Rs. 984,564.82) at the
rate of Twenty per centum (20%) per annum  from 12th April,
2008 to date of satisfaction of the total debt due upon the said
Bond bearing No. 1208 together with costs of advertising and
other charges incurred less payemnts (if any) since received.
THE SCHEDULE
All that the divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot  1
depicted in Plan No. 1698 dated 15th March, 2003 made by A. M.
Anurarathne, Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Patahayaya,
Thanahenyaya, Ethini Wetichcha Yaya and Diyapallanyaya now
forming one Land called Dambuluoya Estate” Together with the soil,
trees, plantations, buildings and everything else standing thereon and
together with all rights, ways, privileges, easements, servitudes and
appurtenances thereto belonging situated at Tittawelgolla alias
Dambuluoya Village in Wagapanaha Pallesiya Pattuwa of within the
Secretary’s Division of Dambulla in the District of Matale Central
Province and which said Lot 1 is bounded on the North by Lot 101

<!-- page 23 -->

1037I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
in Plan No. 1835 made by Sri Bope Arachchi, Licensed Surveyor
(20ft. wide Road), on the East by Lot 35 in the said Plan No. 1835,
on the South by Lot 67 in the said Plan No. 1835 and on the West
by Lot 37 in the Plan No. 1835 and containing in extent Fifteen
perches (0A., 0R., 15P.) according to the said Plan No. 1698.
Which said Lot 1 is a re-survey of the land morefully described
below:
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 36
depicted in Plan No. 1835 dated 07th July, 1995 made by Siri Bope
Arachchi, Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Patahayaya,
Thanahenyaya, Ethini Wetichcha Yaya and Diyapallanyaya now
forming one Land called Dambuluoya  Estate” togethe with the soil,
trees, plantations, buildings and everything else standing thereon and
together with all rights, ways, privileges, easements, servitudes and
appurtenances threeto belonging situated at Tittawelgolla alias
Dambuluoya Village aforesaid and which said Lot 36 is bounded on
the North by Lot 101 in the same plan (6m wide road); on the East
by Lot 35 in the same plan; on the South by Lot 67 in the same plan
and on the West by Lot 37 in the same plan and containing in extent
Fifteen perches   (0A., 0R., 15P.) according to the said Plan No. 1835.
Registered in Volume/Folio D 477/117 at the Land Registry Matale.
Together with the common right of way in over and along the Road
way (6m wide) marked Lots 100 and 101 depicted in the said Plan
No. 1835 morefully described below:
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lots 100
and 101 depicted in Plan No. 1835 dated 07th July, 1995 made by
Siri Bope Arachchi, Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Patahayaya,
Thanahenyaya, Ethini Wetichcha Yaya and Diyapallanyaya now
forming one Land called Dambuluoya Estate” situated at Tittawelgolla
alias Dambuluoya Village aforesaid and together bounded on the
North by Lots 1 to 23 and Lot 26 in the same plan; on the East by
Main Road from Badulla to Matale and Lot 1 on the South by Lots
32 to 51 of the said plan and Lot 27 and on the West by Lot 02 in
the said plan No. 1800 (being a Road way 6m wide). Registered in
Volume/Folio D 477/118 at the Land Registry Matale.
By order of the Board,
Company Secretary.
07-734/4
SAMPATH     BANK     PLC
(Formerly known as a Sampath Bank Ltd.)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank PLC under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 1069 5313 9861.
AT a meeting held on 27th November, 2007 by the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank Limited it was resolved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Ramya Keerthilatha Abeygunawardena of No. 544,
Mahakatuwana, Homagama in the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka as the Obligor has made default in the repayment of
the cerdit facility granted against the security of the property and
premises morefully described in  the Schedule hereto mortgaged
and hypothecated by the Mortgage Bond No. 1149 dated 14th
June, 2006 attested by R. G. D. Sunari of Colombo, Notary
Public, in favour of Sampath Bank Limited and there is now due
and owing to Sampath Bank Limited as at 09th May, 2007 a sum
of Rupees Eight Hundred and Thirteen Thousand Six Hundred
and Fifty-one and cents Twelve only  (Rs. 813,651.12) of lawful
money of Sri Lanka being the total amount outstanding on the said
Bond and the Board of Directors of Sampath Bank Limited under
the powers vested by the Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990 do hereby resolve that the
property and premises morefully described in the Schedule
hereto mortgaged to Sampath Bank Limited as security for the
said credit facility by the said Bond bearing No. 1149 to be sold
in public auction by I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer of
Kandy for the recovery of the said sum of Rupees Eight Hundred
and Thirteen Thousand Six Hundred and Fifty-one and cents
Twelve only (Rs. 813,651.12) together with further interest on
a sum of Rupees Seven Hundred and Eighty-six Thousand Six
Hundred and One and cents Eighteen only (Rs. 786,601.18) at the
rate of Thriteen decimal Five per centum (13.5%) per annum and
from 10th May, 2007 to date of satisfaction of the total debt due
upon the said Bond bearing  No. 1149 together with costs of
advertising and other charges incurred less payments (if any)
since received.
 SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot  1 in
Plan No. 2380 dated 27th September, 2003 made by A. D. M. J.
Rupasinghe, Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Kahatagahalanda”
together with the soil, Trees, plantations and everything else
standing thereon together with soil, trees, plantations, buildings and
everything standing thereon situated at Homagama Village within the
Pradeshiya Sabha Limits of Homagama in Palle Pattu of Hewagam
Korale in the District of Colombo Western Province and which said
Lot 1 is bounded on the North by Duwawatta Road; on the East by
Lot 2; on the South by Lot A claimed by Marthelis Appuhamy and
on the West by Lot A, 3A and containing in extent Ten decimal One
Naught perches (0A., 0R., 10.10P.) according to the said Plan
No. 2380 and registered in Volume/Folio G 1492/240 at the Land
Registry, Homagama.
By order of the Board,
Company Secretary.
07-734/2

<!-- page 24 -->

1038 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
SAMPATH     BANK     PLC
(Formerly known as a Sampath Bank Ltd.)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank  Limited under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans
by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 0069 5000 0285.
AT a meeting held on 26th October, 2007 by the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank Limited it was resolved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Arangalage Don Premachandra of No. 42/1, “Shanthi”,
High Level Road, Homagama in the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka as the Obligor has made default in the repayment of
the credit facility granted against the security of the property and
premises morefully described in the Schedule hereto mortgaged
and hypothecated by the Mortgage Bond No. 1235 dated 26th
July, 2006 attested by R. D. G. Sunari of Colombo, Notary
Public, in favour of Sampath Bank Limited and there is now due
and owing to Sampath Bank Limited as at 27th June, 2007 a sum
of Rupees Nine Hundred and Fifty-four Thousand Eight Hundred
and Eighty-two and cents Forty-four only (Rs. 954,882.44) of
lawful money of Sri Lanka being the total amount outstanding on
the said Bond and the Board of Directors of Sampath Bank
Limited under the powers vested by the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990 do hereby resolve
that the property and premises morefully described in the
Schedule hereto mortgaged to Sampath Bank Limited as security
for the said credit facility by the said Bond bearing No. 1235 to
be sold in public auction by I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer
of Kandy for the recovery of the said sum of Rupees Nine
Hundred and Fifty-four Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty-
two and cents Forty-four only (Rs. 954,882.44) together with
further interest on a sum of Rupees Eight Hundred and Ninety-
nine Thousand Eight Hundred only (Rs. 899,800) at the rate of
Eighteen per centum (18%) per annum from 28th June, 2007 to
date of Sale together with costs of advertising and other charges
incurred less payements (if any) since received.
SCHEDULE
All that the divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot  1
in Plan No. 1311 dated 12th October, 1997 made by U. L. N. T.
Chandana, Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Diyapothakele”
together with soil, trees, plantations and everything else standing
thereon with all rights, ways, privileges, easements, servitudes and
appurtenance thereon situated at Eswatta in Udugaha Pattu of
Hewagam Korale in the District of Colombo Western Province and
which said Lot 1 is bounded on the North by land claimed by K. A.
Angonona and others and land claimed by K. Wettasinghe, on the
East by land claimed by K. Wettasinghe and land claimed by D. B.
Welikala, on the South by Road (Private) and on the West by Lot 2
and land claimed by K. A. Angonona and others and containing in
extent One Acres Three Roods and Twenty-seven perches
(1A., 3R., 27P.) according to the said Plan No. 1311 and registered
in P 104/163 at the Land Registry Awissawella.
Together with the right of way and other rights over and along:
Lot 3 in the said Plan No. 1311 and registered in P 104/165 at the
Land Registry, Awissawella.
By order of the Board,
Company Secretary.
07-734/1
PEOPLE’S       BANK—BATTARAMULLA      BRANCH
Resolution under Section 29D of the People’s Bank Act,
No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No. 32 of 1986
IT is hereby notified that the following Resolution was unanimously
passed by the Board of Directors of the People’s Bank under Section
29D of the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by Act,
No. 32 of 1986 at their meeting held on 26.05.2009.
Whereas Mr. Makawitage Lasantha Sanjeewa Perera and
Mrs. Wanniachchige Evegin Sisilin Fonseka have made default in
payment due on Mortgage Bond No. 1116 dated 22.03.2006
attested by Mrs. D. K. K. Welikumbura, Notary Public of
Colombo in favour of the People’s Bank and there is now due and
owing to the People’s Bank a sum of Rupees Seven Hundred and
Ninety one Thousand Two Hundred and Ninety-one (Rs. 791,291)
on the said Bond. The Board of Directors of the People’s Bank
under the powers vested in them by the People’s Bank Act, No.
29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No. 32 of 1986 do hereby
resolve that the property and premises mortgaged to the said
Bank by the said Mortgage Bond No. 1116 be sold by public
auction by  Mrs. E. S. Ramanayake, Licensed Auctioneer of
Colombo for recovery of the sum of Rupees Seven Hundred and
Ninety-one Thousand Two Hundred and Ninety-one (Rs.
791,291) with further interest thereon at Twenty Point Five per
cent (20.5%) per annum from 24.10.2008 to date of sale and cost
together with money recoverable under Section 29L of the said
People’s Bank Act less payments (if any) since received.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY AND PREMISES
MORTGAGED
All that allotment of land marked Lot No. 5B depicted in Plan
No. 902 dated 18.05.1994 made by S. R. A. Jayasinghe, Licensed
Surveyor of the land called “Makulugahawatta” situated at
Battaramulla within the Langama Sub-Unit of Battaramulla within
Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha Unit in Palle Pattu of Hewagam Korale
in the District of Colombo, Western Province and bounded on the
North by 15 ft. wide road, on the East by 15ft. wide road, on the South
by part of the same land bearing Lot No. 6 and on the West by Lot
No. 5A and containing in extent Twelve point Five Six perches
(0A., 0R., 12.56P.) together with buildings, trees, fruits and everything
else standing thereon.

<!-- page 25 -->

1039I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Registered at Homagama Land Registry under G 977/293.
By order of the Board of Directors,
Asst. General Manager,
Western Zone II.
People’s Bank,
Regional Head Office-Colombo (Outer),
No. 102, Stanley Thilakaratne Mawatha,
Nugegoda.
07-689
COMMERCIAL  BANK  OF  CEYLON  PLC
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC formerly known as
Commercial Bank of Ceylon Limited under Section 4 of
the Recovery of Loans by Banks (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 4 of 1990
Loan Account No. : 292516.
AT a meeting held on 24th April, 2009 the Board of Directors of
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC resolved specially and unanimously
as follows :-
Whereas Nagamany Nanthakumar  and Lathikka Nanthakumar
as Obligors have made default in the payment due on Bond Nos.
8541 dated 14th September, 2005 and 8581 dated 25th September
2005 both attested by M. Thiyagarajah, Notary Public of Jaffna
in favour of Commercial Bank of Ceylon Limited now known as
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (the land morefully described
in the 1st Schedule hereto).
And whereas Nagamany Nanthakumar and Lathikka
Nanthakumar as Obligors have made default in the payment due
on Bond Nos. 8664 dated 24th October, 2005 and 8743 dated
24th November, 2005 and 9111 dated 10th April, 2006 all
attested by M. Thiyagarajah, Notary Public of Jaffna in favour
of Commercial Bank of Ceylon Limited now known as Commercial
Bank of Ceylon PLC (the land morefully described in the 2nd
Schedule hereto) and there is now due and owing to the Commercial
Bank of Ceylon PLC as at 14th November, 2008 a sum of Rupees
Five Million Five Hundred and Thirty Eight Thousand Two
Hundred and Seventy Nine and Cents Sixty One (Rs. 5,538,279.61)
on the said Bonds and the Board of Directors of Commercial Bank
of Ceylon PLC under the powers vested by Recovery of Loans
by Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 4 of 1990 do hereby
resolve that the properties and premises morefully described in
the 1st and 2nd Schedules  hereto and mortgaged to the Commercial
Bank of Ceylon PLC by the said Bond Nos. 8541, 8581, 8664,
8743 and 9111 be sold by Public Auction by Mr. L. B. Senanayake,
Licensed Auctioneer of No. 99, Hulfsdorp Street, Colombo 12
for the recovery of the said sum of Rupees Five Million Five
Hundred and Thirty Eight Thousand Two Hundred and Seventy
Nine and Cents Sixty One (Rs. 5,538,279.61) with further
interest on a sum of Rs. 3,677,392.89 at 24% per annum from 15th
November, 2008 to date of sale together with costs of advertising
and any other charges incurred less payments (if any) since
received.
 1ST SCHEDULE
Land situated at Navaly in the Parish of Manipay in the Division
of Valikamam West in the District of Jaffna Northern Province called
Kayaddaiyavalavum  Addagiriyum in extent 6 Lms. V. C. and 0.94
Kulies with house, well, cultivated and spontaneous plantations.
The said extent of 6 Lms. V. C. and 0.94 Kulies is bounded on the
East by the property of the heirs of Visvanathar Veerasingam; on the
North by the property of the heirs of Maruthappu Suppiah and that
of  Gowriammah wife of Thuraichamy; on the West by the property
of Gowriammah wife of Thuraichamy and by lane and on the South
by the property of Yogeswary daughter of Nadarajah the whole
hereof within these boundaries. This is depicted as Lot 2 in Plan No.
593A dated 22nd August, 1994 and drawn by Mr. S. Visvaratnam
Licensed Surveyor and registered under Volume/Folio E 751/174 at
the Jaffna Land Registry.
2ND SCHEDULE
Land situated at Manipay in the Parish of Manipay in the
Division of Valikamam West in the District of Jaffna Northern
Province called Sundipanai and Sundipani Valavu in extent 37 Lms.
and 17.95 Kulies and depicted as Lots 1 to 21 in Survey Plan No. 0001
dated 18th August, 2005 drown by T. Tharmalingam Licensed
Surveyor of this the Lot marked 14 is in extent 2 Lms. V. C. is bounded
on the East by Lot marked 13 on the North by Lot marked 20, on
the West by Lot marked 15 and on the South by the property of
Sinnathamby Mahesan and others the whole hereof together with the
right of use the pathways marked Lot 20 a pathway 16 feet in width
leading to Hallock Lane and registered under Volume/Folio E 762/246
at the Jaffna Land Registry.
Mrs. R. R. D
UNUWILLE,
Company Secretary.
07-726
PEOPLE’S       BANK—GALLE     MAIN    STREET
BRANCH
Resolution under Section 29D of the People’s Bank Act,
No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No. 32 of 1986
IT is hereby notified that the following Resolution was unanimously
passed by the Board of Directors of the People’s Bank under Section
29D of the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by Act,
No. 32 of 1986 at their meeting held on 24.04.2009.
Whereas Kanapeddala Gamage Asela Shiran has made default
in payment due on the  Bond No. 202 dated 03.03.2008 attested

<!-- page 26 -->

1040 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
by W. G. G. I. Gunaratne, Notary Public of Galle, in favour of
the People’s Bank and there is now due and owing to the People’s
Bank a sum of Rupees Two Million Three Hundred Seventy-
three Thousand Two Hundred and Nineteen and cents Forty-two
(Rs. 2,373,219.42) on the said Bond. The Board of Directors of
the People’s Bank under the powers vested in them by the
People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No.
32 of 1986 do hereby resolve that the property and premises
mortgaged to the said Bank by the said Bond No. 202 be sold by
public auction by G. P. Ananda, Licensed Auctioneer for recovery
of the sum of Rupees Two Million Three Hundred Seventy-three
Thousand Two Hundred and Nineteen and cents Forty-two
(Rs. 2,373,219.42) with further interest on Rupees of Rupees
Two Million Three Hundred Seventy Three Thousand Two
Hundred and Nienteen and cents Forty Two (Rs. 2,373,219.42)at
23% per centum per annum from 31.12.2008 to date of sale and
cost and moneys recoverable under Section ‘29L’ of the said
People’s Bank Act less payment (if any) since received.
DESCRIPTION OF MORTGAGE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 1
D of
Lot 1 depicted in Plan No. 542/2007 dated 27.11.2007 made by
W. G. D. U. Karunaratne, Licensed Surveyor the land called
Bataganwilawatta alias Nonagewatta bearing Assmt. No. 15/4B,
Donald Jansz Road, and situated at Kumbalwella within the
Municipality Limits and Four Gravets of Galle, Galle District,
Southern Province and which said Lot 1
D is bounded on the North
by M. C. Road and on the East by Lot 1 B of the same land (Road
Reservation) and on the South by Lot 1E of the same land and on the
West by Lot 1C of the same land and containing in extent Eighteen
decimal Six perches (0A., 0R., 18.6P.) according to the said Plan
No. 542/2007, together with all the buildings, plantations and
everything else standing thereon and registered under A 669/187 at
Galle District Land Registry.
By order of the Board of Directors,
Regional Manager,
Galle.
People’s Bank,
Regional Head Office,
No. 22, Lower Dickson Road,
Galle.
07-690
PEOPLE’S   BANK—BATTARAMULLA    BRANCH
Resolution under Section 29D of the People’s Bank Act,
No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No. 32 of 1986
IT is hereby notified that the following Resolution was unanimously
passed by the Board of Directors of the People’s Bank under Section
29D of the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by Act,
No. 32 of 1986 at their meeting held on 28.11.2008.
Whereas Mr. Susantha Jayalath Weragala has made default in
payment due on Mortgage Bonds Nos. 1239 dated 17.12.2003
attested by Mrs. P. Liyanage, Attorney-at-Law and Notary
Public of Colombo and 1388 dated 19.10.2006 attested by Mrs.
D. K. K. Welikumbura, in favour of the People’s Bank and there
is now due and owing to the People’s Bank a sum of Rupees Two
Hundred and Eighty-four Thousand Four Hundred and Ninety-
nine (Rs. 284,499) and Rupees One Million Five Hundred
Thousand (Rs. 1,500,000) on the said Bonds. The Board of
Directors of the People’s Bank under the powers vested in them
by the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act,
No. 32 of 1986 do hereby resolve that the property and premises
mortgaged to the said Bank by the said  Bonds  Nos. 1239 and
1388 be sold by public auction by Mrs. Samanmalee Ramanayake,
Licensed Auctioneer of Colombo for recovery of the sum of
Rupees Two Hundred and Eighty-four Thousand Four Hundred
and Ninety-nine (Rs. 284,499) together with interest thereon at
Seventeen point Two Five per cent (17.25%) per annum  from
18.05.2008 and Rupees One Million Five Hundred Thousand
(Rs. 1,500,000) together with interest thereon at Twenty-two
per cent (22%) per annum from 01.08.2008 to date of sale
together with money recoverable under Section 29D of the said
People’s Bank Act and costs less any payment (if any) since
received.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY AND PREMISES
MORTGAGED
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 1
depicted in Plan No. 757 dated 16th December, 1984 made by K. A.
Kapugeekiyana, Licensed Surveyor together with the buildings,
trees, plantations and everything else standing thereon bearing
Assessment No. 71B, Wickramasinghepura Road of the land called
St. Thomas Estate situated at Wickramasinghepura in Ward No. 8,
Talangama South within the Town Council Limits of Battaramulla-
Talangama in the Palle Pattu of Hewagam Korale in the District of
Colombo Western Province and which said Lot 1 is bounded on the
North by balance area of the same land, on the East by
Wickremasinghepura Road, on the South by land of Ariyadasa being
Lot C in Plan No. 3298 made by H. Anil Peiris, Licensed Surveyor
and dated 28th September, 1983 and on the West by lands of P. B.
S. Karunaratne and Wickramaratchchi and containing in extent Six
perches (0A., 0R., 6.0P.).
Registered under G 1270/233 at Homagama Land Registry.
By order of the Board of Directors,
Asst. General Manager,
(Western Zone II).
People’s Bank,
Regional Head Office (Colombo Outer),
No. 102, Stanley Thilakaratne Mawatha,
Nugegoda.
07-688

<!-- page 27 -->

1041I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
PEOPLE’S       BANK—KIRULAPONE    BRANCH
Resolution under Section 29D of the People’s Bank Act,
No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act, No. 32 of 1986
IT is hereby notified that the following Resolution was unanimously
passed by the Board of Directors of the People’s Bank under Section
29D of the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by Act,
No. 32 of 1986 at their meeting held on 24.04.2009.
Whereas Stitches (Pvt) Ltd. a Company duly incorporated
under the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 and having registered
office at No. 70, Lauries Road, Colombo and Shanthi Vinothan
nee Kathiravetpillai and Saraswathie Kathiravetpillai have made
default in payment due on Mortgage Bond No. 3868 dated
01.11.2006 attested by Mrs. M. Nandani Perera, Notary Public
Colombo, in favour of the People’s Bank and there is now due
and owing to the People’s Bank sum of Rupees Five Million
(Rs. 5,000,000) on the said Bond No. 3868. The Board of
Directors of the People’s Bank under the powers vested in them
by the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961 as amended by the Act,
No. 32 of 1986 do hereby resolve that the property and premises
mortgaged to the said Bank by the said Mortgage Bond No. 3868
be sold by Public Auction by E. S. Ramanayake, Licensed
Auctioneer of Colombo for recovery of the sum of Rupees Five
Million (Rs. 5,000,000) together with further interest on Rupees
Five Million only (Rs. 5,000,000) at the rate of Twenty-one
decimal five percent (21.5%) per annum from 01.10.2008 to date
of sale with costs and other charges of sale less payment (if any)
since received.
SCHEDULE
All that premises described as Unit 2-Lot 2 in the First Floor Flat
(Second Storey) depicted in Condominium Plan No. 1577 dated 23rd
May, 1986 made by M. S. T. P. Senadhira, Licensed Surveyor and
bearing Assessment No. 19/1A, Castle Lane within the Municipal
Council Limits of Colombo in Palle Pattu of Salpiti Korale in the
District of Colombo, Western Province, and bounded on the North
by the Centre of the Northern wall of this Lot East by the Centre of
the Eastern wall of this Lot South by the Centre of the Southern wall
of this Lot West by Centre of the Western wall of this Lot, Zenith
by Centre of the roof of this Lot, and on the Nadir by the Centre of
the floor of this Lot, and containing in extent a floor area of 1585
square feet and registered under CON A 30/283 at the Land Registry
of Colombo.
All that premises described as Unit 2-Lot 3 Entrance and Staireay
marked “A” depicted in Condominium Plan No. 1577 dated 23rd day
of May, 1986 made by M. S. T. P. Senadhira, Licensed Surveyor
situated in Ward No. 42 (Havelock Town) from and out of the
Condominium building standing on the Condominium property
containing in extent a floor area of 115 Square feet according to said
Plan No. 1577 within the Municipal Council of Colombo Western
Province and bounded as North by the Centre of the Northern wall
of this Lot separating this Lot and the remaining portion of the same
land, East by the Centre of the Eastern wall of this Lot separating
this Lot and Unit 1-Lot 1, South by the Centre of the Southern wall
of this Lot separating this Lot and Unit Lot 1, West by Centre of the
Western wall of this Lot separating this Lot and the remaining
portion of the same land Zenith by Centre of the floor of Unit 2-Lot
2 and, on the Nadir by the Centre of the floor of this Lot.
Common Elements :
Statutory Common Elements of the Condominium Property are
as provided in Section 26 of the Apartment Ownership Law No. 11
of 1973 as amended by Section 12 of the (Amendment) Act, No. 45
of 1982.
1. (a) The land on which the building stands.
(b) The remaining portion of the same land.
2. Foundations, Girders, Beams, Supports, Water pipes, Drains
Sewers, Manholes, Electric wiring from mains to meters and
roof.
3. All other structures of the building other than the areas
covered by the Flats described above.
4. Stairs, Stairways, Entrance and Exits of the building Share
in common elements appurtenant to Unit 2-Lot 2, First
Floor Flat bearing Assessment No. 19/1A, Castle Lane
(second storey) in Ward No. 42, (Havelock Town) undivided
56.2% (Fifty-six decimal Two percent).
Together with the right of way in over and along the reservation
for road described as follows:
All that allotment of land marked Lot 6 (Reservation for Road)
depicted in the said Survey Plan No. 800B dated 31st day of August,
1971 made by S. Kumaraswamy, Licensed Surveyor situated at
Bambalapitiya within the Municipal Limits and District of Colombo,
Western Province and which said “Lot 6” is bounded on the North
by Lot 1 (portion of the same land and covered by street Line along
Castle Lane), on the East by Lots 5 and 14, on the South by Lots 13
and 14 and on the West by Lots 7 and 13 containing in extent Three
decimal Four Six perches (0A., 0R., 3.46P.) according to the said Plan
No. 800B registered under A 527/259 at the Land Registry of
Colombo.
By order of the Board of Directors,
Regional Manager,
(Colombo South).
People’s Bank,
Zonal Head Office-(Western Zone-01),
No. 11, Duke Street,
Colombo 01.
07-687

<!-- page 28 -->

1042 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
SAMPATH   BANK  PLC
(Formerly known as Sampath Bank Ltd)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank PLC under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 1029 5331 5433
AT a meeting held on 24th July, 2008 by the Board of Directors of
Sampath Bank PLC it was resolved specially and unanimously :
Whereas Shiroma Chandani Senarath Dassanayaka  and Roshan
Ajantha Senerath Dassanayaka both of No. 502/3, Susilarama
Road, Malabe in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
as the obligors and the said Shiroma Chandani Senarath
Dassanayaka  of No. 502/3, Susilarama Road Malabe aforesaid
as the Mortgagor have made defalut in the repayment of the credit
facility granted against the security of the property and premises
morefully described in the Schedule hereto mortgaged and
hypothecated by the Mortgage Bond No. 175 dated 28th
September 2007 attested by G. P. I. Udayangani of Colombo
Notary Public in favour of Sampath Bank Limited now known
as Sampath  Bank PLC re-registered under the Companies Act,
No. 7 of 2007 and holding Company No. PQ 144 and there is now
due and owing to Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid as at 11th
February, 2008 a sum of Rupees Four Million Seven Hundred and
Thirty-eight Thousand Two Hundred and Thirty-one and Cents
Seven only (Rs. 4,738,231.07) a lawful money of Sri Lanka being
the total amount outstanding on the said Bond and the Board of
Directors of Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid under the powers
vested by the recovery of loans by Banks (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 04 of 1990 do hereby resolve that the property and
premises morefully described in the Schedule hereto mortgaged
to Sampath Bank PLC aforesaid as security for the said credit
facilities by the said Bond bearing No. 175 to be sold in public
auction by Schokman and Samarawickrame,  Licensed Auctioneers
of Colombo for the recovery of the said sum of Rupees Four
Million Seven Hundred and Thirty-eight Thousand Two Hundred
and Thirty-one and cents Seven only (Rs. 4,738,231.07) together
with further interest on a sum of Rupees Four Million Four
Hundred and Sixty Thousand only  (Rs. 4,460,000) at the rate of
Twenty per centum (20%) per annum from 12th February, 2008
to date of satisfaction of the total debt due upon the said Bond
bearing No. 175 together with costs of advertising and other
charges incurred less payment (if any) since received.
THE SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 10
depicted in Plan No. 2215 dated 25th September, 1988 made by
D. Joy Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Juwamalagewatta alias
Higgahawatta” together with the soil, trees, plantations, buildings
and everything else standing thereon and together with all rights,
ways, privileges, casements, servitudes and appurtenances thereto
belonging situated at Malabe  within the Pradeshiya Sabha Limits of
Kaduwela in the Palle Pattu of hewagama korale in the District of
Colombo Western Province and which said Lot 10 is bounded on the
North-east by Susilarama Road on the South-east by Lot 9 depicted
in Plan No. 1173, on the South-west by Lot 4 depicted in the said
Plan No. 1173 and on the North-west by Lot 11 (Road 15 feet wide
in Plan No. 1173 and containing in extent Seventeen decimal five
perches (0A., 0R., 17.5P.) according to the said Plan No. 2215.
Which said land is a resurvey of the following land to wit :
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 10
depicted in Plan No. 1173 dated 08th August, 1968 made by N. D.
Sirisena Licensed Surveyor of the land called “Juwamalagewatta
alias Higgahawatta” together with the soil, trees, plantations, buildings
and everything else standing thereon and together with all rights,
ways, privileges, easements, servitudes and appurtenances thereto
belonging situated at Malabe aforesaid and which said Lot 10 is
bounded on the North by Lot 11 on the East by Susilarama Road on
the South by Lot 9 and on the West by Lot 4 and containing in extent
Seventeen decimal five perches (0A., 0R., 17.5P.) according to the
said Plan No. 1173. Registered in Volume/Folio G 1418/227 at the
Land Registry, Homagama.
Together with the right of way in over under and along :
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 11
(Reservation for a road) depicted in the said Plan No. 1173 of the land
called “Juwamalagewatta alias Higgahawatta” situated at Malabe
aforesaid and which said Lot 11 is bounded on the North by Lots 03,
13 and 12 on the East by Susilarama road on the South by Lot 10 and
on the West by Lots 3 and 4 and containing in extent six decimal three
perches (0A., 0R., 6.3P.) according to the said Plan No. 1173.
Registration in Volume/Folio G 1418/228 at the Land Registry,
Homagama.
By order of the Board
Company Secretary.
07-734/8
SAMPATH  BANK  PLC
(Formerly known as Sampath Bank Ltd)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank PLC under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 0008 5002 3840.
AT a meeting held on 26th October, 2007 by the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank Limited it was resolved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Suppiah Yogarajah of No. 54, Sebestian Road,
Heikittha, Wattala in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as the obligor has made default in the repayment of the
credit facility granted against the security of the property and
premises morefully described in the Schedule hereto mortgaged
and hypothecated by the Mortgage Bond No. 2827 dated 16th
July, 2004 attested by K. S. P. W. Jayaweera of Colombo Notary
Public in favour of Sampath Bank Limited and there is now due

<!-- page 29 -->

1043I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
and owing to Sampath Bank Limited as at 18th July, 2007 a sum
of Rupees Four Hundred and Sixteen Thousand Seven Hundred
and Thirty-eight and Cents Seventy-three only (Rs. 416,738.73)
of lawful money of Sri Lanka being the total amount outstanding
on the said Bond and the Board of Directors of Sampath Bank
Limited under the powers vested by the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990 do hereby resolve
that the property and premises morefully described in the
Schedule hereto mortgaged to Sampath Bank Limited as security
for the said credit facility by the said Bond bearing No. 2827 to
be sold in Public Auction by I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer
of Kandy for the recover of the said sum of Rupees Four Hundred
and Sixteen Thousand Seven Hundred and Thirty-eight and Cents
Seventy-three only (Rs. 4,16,738.73) together with further
interest on a sum of Rupees Three Hundred and Fifty-seven
Thousand One Hundred and Ninety-nine and Cents Ninety-five
only (Rs. 3,57,199.95) at the rate of Sixteen per centum (16%)
per annum from 19th July, 2007 to date of sale together with costs
of advertising and other charges incurred less payments (if any)
since recived.
THE SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 1
depicted in Plan No. 2732 dated 24th November, 2003 made by
D. D. C. A Perera, Licensed Surveyor (being a resurvey and sub-
division of lot 1 in Plan No. 2844 dated 12th May, 1995 made by
W. S. S. Perera, Licensed Surveyor) of the land called Gorakagahawatta
and Kahatagahawatta together with soils, trees, plantations, buildings
and everything else standing with all rights, ways, privileges,
easements, servitudes and appurtenance thereon situated at Hekitha
within the Hendala Sub Office of Wattala Pradeshiya Sabha in Ragam
Pattu of Aluth Kuru Korale in the District of Gampaha Western
Province and which said Lot 1 is bounded on the North by land of
P. W. Silva and S. Tilakaratne on the East by land formerly of P. R.
Peiris on the South by Lot 5 (Reservation for road 10 feet wide) in
the said Plan No. 2732 and on  the West by Land of  R. M. L. Perera
and containing in extent Ten perches (0A., 0R., 10P.) according to
the said Plan No. 2732 and registered in Volume/Folio B 876/269 at
the Land Registry, Colombo
Together with the right of ways over and along :
1. All that allotment of land marked Lot 5 (Reservation for Road
10 feet wide) depicted in Plan No. 2844 dated 12th May, 1995
made by W. S. S. Perera, Licensed Surveyor of the land called
“Gorakagahawatta and Kahatagahawatta”  situated at Hekitta
within the T. C. Limits of Hendala in Regam Pattu of
Aluthkuru Kirale Gampaha District Western Province and
which said Lot 5 is bounded on the North by lot 1 hereof on
the East by Road and on the South by Road and on the West
by Lot 4, 3 and 2 and containing in extent Three Perches
(0A., 0R., 3P.) according to the said Plan No. 2844 and
registered in Volume/Folio B 876/288 at the Land Registry,
Colombo.
2. All that allotment of land marked Lot 5 (Reservation for road
10 feet wide) depicted in Plan No. 2732 dated 24th November,
2003 aforesaid of the land called “Gorakagahawatta and
Kahatagahawatta” situated at Hekitta aforesaid and which
said Lot 5 is bounded on the North by Lot 1 hereof on the East
by land formerly of P. R. Peiris and road on the South by Lot
5 (Reservation for road 10 feet wide) in Plan No. 2844 and on
the West by Lots 2, 3 and 4 hereof and containing in extent
nought three decimal five five perches (0A., 0R., 03.55P.)
according to the said Plan No. 2732 and registered in Volume/
Folio B 876/290 at the Land Registry, Colombo
By order of the Board,
Company Secretary.
07-734/5
BANK    OF   CEYLON
Notice under Section 21 of the Bank of Ceylon ordinance
(Cap. 397) as amended by Act, No. 34 of 1968 and Law No.
10 of 1974
AT a meeting held on 12.06.2009, the Board of Directors of this Bank
resolved specially and unanimously :
1. That a sum of (1) Rupees Four Hundred Eleven Thousand
Nine Hundred Five and cents Sixteen only (Rs. 411,905.16)
and (2) Rupees Seven Hundred Fifty-seven Thousand Three
Hundred Thirty-two and cents Twenty-one only.
(Rs. 757,332.21) is due from Mr. Siyambalagoda
Kankanamalage Devapriya Chandrasiri Senasekara and
Ms. Siyambalagoda Kankanamalage Madhubhashini
Senasekara both of No. 191/1, Horana Road, Kesbewa on
account of principal and interest upto 25.03.2009 together
with interest on (1) Rupees Three Hundred Seventy-nine
Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty only (Rs. 379,960) on the loan
account at the rate of 14% per centum per annum from
26.03.2009 and (2) Rupees Seven Hundred Twelve Thousand
Nine Hundred Sixteen only (Rs. 712,916) on the loan account
at the rate of 14% per centum per annum from 26.03.2009
until the date of repayment on Primary Mortgage Bond
No. 507 dated 14.07.2004 attested by Ms. Samadara
Jayasinghe, Notary Public and Mortgage Bond No. 10 dated
09.08.2005 attested by Mr. J. L. Sarathchandra, Notary
Public.
2. That in terms of section 19 of the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance
(Cap. 397) and its amendments Mr. W. Jayathilaka-the
Auctioneer of No. 48/1, Kalugalpitiya, Badulla be authorized
and empowered to sell by public auction the property
mortgaged  to the Bank of Ceylon and described in the
Schedule hereunder for the recovery of the said sum of (1)
Rupees Four Hundred Eleven Thousand Nine Hundred Five
and cents Sixteen only (Rs. 411,905.16) and (2) Rupees Seven
Hundred Fifty-seven Thousand Three Hundred Thirty-two
and cents Twenty-one only. (Rs. 757,332.21) due on the said
Bond No. 507 dated 14.07.2004 attested by Ms. Samadara

<!-- page 30 -->

1044 I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
Jayasinghe, Notary Public and Mortgage Bond No. 10 dated
09.08.2005 attested by Mr. J. L. Sarathchandra, Notary
Public together with interest as at aforesaid from 26.03.2009
to date of sale and costs and monies recoverable under Section
26 of the said Bank of Ceylon Ordinance and that the Manger
of Ayagama Branch of the Bank of Ceylon to publish notice
of this resolution in terms of Section 21 of the said Bank of
Ceylon Ordinance.
THE SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot A
depicted in Plan No. 207A dated 04.10.2003 made by J. N.
Wickramaratne, Licensed Surveyor of the land called Kosgahalanda
and Talgahakanatta situated at Demalduwa Village in Palle Pattu of
Salpiti Korale in the District of Colombo Western Province and
bounded on the North by remaining portion of Lot 3 depicted in Plan
No. 207 made by J. N. Wickramaratne, Licensed Surveyor on the East
by Road from Houses to Colombo Horana Road on the South by
Road from Houses to Colombo Horana and on the West by
Ramaining portion of Lot 3 depicted in Plan No. 207 aforesaid and
containing in extent One Rood and Twenty perches (0A., 1R., 20P.)
together with everything else standing thereon and registered in
M 2770/132 at the Mount Lavinia Land Registry.
Which said allotment of land marked Lot A is a divided and defined
portion from and out of the following land.
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 3
depicted in Plan No. 207 dated 16.08.1994 made by J. N.
Wickramaratne, Licensed Surveyor of the land called Kosgahalanda
and Thalgahakanatta situated at Demalduwa Village aforesaid and
bounded on the North by Colombo-Horana Main Road on the East
by Road on the South by Kosgahalanda and Thalgahakanatta and
Road in Plan No. 468 dated 19.05.1993 made by Y. G. De Silva,
Licensed Surveyor and on the West by Kosgahakanatta in Plan
No. 2737 made by N. S. De Weerakkody, Licensed Surveyor and Lot
4 (Private Road) depicted in the said Plan No. 207 and Lot 2 and
containing in extent Three Acres Two Roods and Eighteen decimal
Seven One (3A., 2R., 18.71P.) together with everything else standing
thereon and registered in M 2154/193 at the Mount Lavinia Land
Registry.
By order of the Board of the Directors of the Bank of
Ceylon,
M
RS. R. P. RATNASEKARA ,
Manager,
Ayagama Branch.
07-740
SAMPATH  BANK  PLC
(Formerly known as Sampath Bank Ltd)
Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Sampath
Bank PLC under Section 04 of the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990
Account No. : 1082 5308 3344.
AT a meeting held on 27th December, 2007 by the Board of Directors
of Sampath Bank Limited it was resolved specially and unanimously:
Whereas Hewa Katuwandeniyage Janaka of No. 1032/5A,
Liyanagoda, Pannipitiya in the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka as the obligor has made default in the repayment of the
credit facility granted against the security of the property and
premises morefully described in the Schedule hereto mortgaged
and hypothecated by the Mortgage Bond No. 2734 dated 06th
March, 2006 attested by W. G. K. Wijetunge of Colombo Notary
Public in favour of Sampath Bank Limited and there is now due
and owing to Sampath Bank Limited as at 12th July, 2007 a sum
of Rupees One Million Fifty-five Thousand Two Hundred and
Eighty-five and Cents Eighty-six only (Rs. 1,055,285.86) of
lawful money of Sri Lanka being the total amount outstanding on
the said Bond and the Board of Directors of Sampath Bank
Limited under the powers vested by the Recovery of Loans by
Banks (Special Provisions) Act, No. 04 of 1990 do hereby resolve
that the property and premises morefully described in the
Schedule hereto mortgaged to Sampath Bank Limited as security
for the said credit facility by the said Bond bearing No. 2734 to
be sold in Public Auction by I. W. Jayasuriya, Licensed Auctioneer
of Kandy for the recover y  of the said sum of Rupees One Million
Fifty-five Thousand Two Hundred and Eighty-five and Cents
Eighty-six only (Rs. 1,055,285.86) together with further interest
on a sum of Rupees Nine Hundred and Sixty-one Thousand Five
Hundred and Seventy-two and Cents Forty-two only
(Rs. 961,572.42) at the rate of thirteen decimal five per centum
(13.5%) per annum from 13th July, 2007 to date of sale together
with costs of advertising and other charges incurred less payments
(if any) since received.
THE SCHEDULE
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 11
depicted in Plan No. 2778 dated 2nd December, 2005 made by
J. M. F. S. Weerasinghe Licensed Surveyor of the
land called “Dawatagahawatta, Dawatagahakunduwatta”
(Dawatagahakurunduwatta) alias Surigamaparanawatta together
with the soil, trees, plantations, buildings and everything else
standing thereon with all rights, ways, privileges, easements,
servitudes and appurtenance thereon situated at Mahara Suriyapaluwa
within the Pradeshiya Sabha Limits and Mahara in the Adikari Pattu
of Siyane Korale and on the District of Gampaha Western Province
and which said Lot 11 is bounded on the North by Lot 10 on the East
by Lots 13 and 9 on the South by Lot 12 and on the West by P. W.
D. Road and containing in extent nineteen perches (0A., 0R., 19P.)
according to the said Plan.
Which said Lot 11 is a resurvey of the land described below :

<!-- page 31 -->

1045I fldgi : (I) fPoh ----- YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ----- 2009'07'24
PART  I :  S EC.  (I) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2009
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 11
depicted in Plan No. 1008 dated 8 to 10 March, 1972 made by
M. J. Setunga, Licensed Surveyor of the land called Dawatagahawatta,
Dawatagahakurunduwatta alias Surigamaranawatta together with
the soil, trees, plantations, buildings, and everything else standing
thereon situated at Mahara Suriyapaluwa aforesaid and which said
Lot 11 is bounded on the North by Lot 10 on the East by Lots 12
and 9 on the South by Lot 12 and on the West by P. W. D. Road and
containing in extent nineteen perches (0A., 0R.,  9P.) according to the
said Plan No. 1008 and registered in Volume/Folio C 768/125 at the
Land Registry, Gampaha.
Together with the right of ways in over and along :
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Lot R 1 (Reservation for road) depicted in the said Plan No. 1008
and registered in C 507/100 at the Land Registry, Gampaha.
Lot R6 (Reservation for road) depicted in the said Plan No. 1008
and registered in C 4344/272 in the Land Registry, Gampaha
Lot R10 (Reservation for road) depicted in the said Plan No. 1008
and registered in C 507/1181 at the Land Registry Gampaha
By order of the Board,
Company Secretary.
07-734/3