

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2184$9 - 2020 cQ,s ui 13 jeks i÷od - 2020'07'13
No. 2184/9  -  MONDAY,  JULY, 13,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG 5058 — 18  (07/2020)
Provincial Councils Notifications
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notice
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in the Minister in charge of the subject, under Section 289(1) of Municipal Council
Ordinance (Chapter 252) that should be read with Section 2 of Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of
1989, I, Anuradha Yahampath Governor of the Eastern Province, do hereby make regulation pertaining t o the following
allowances to the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and Councilors of Municipal Council. These regulations shall be effected from 23rd
June, 2020.
ANURADHA YAHAMPATH,
Governor of Eastern Province.
Governor's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
23rd June, 2020.
REGULATIONS
01. Fuel Limits to Mayor of Municipal Council for official visits:
1.1 If a vehicle of Municipal Council is used within the municipality limits, not more than 80 liters of diesel/petrol and
if such vehicle is used outside of the municipality limit for official visits/purposes, not more than 100 liters of diesel
/petrol for a period of one month could be consumed from the Municipal Council fund.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 20'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.07.20 20
2 A
1.2. In the event of non-availability of Municipal Council vehicles, with the prior approval of Minister in-charge of the
subject personal vehicles/hired vehicles could be utilized subject to the above said fuel limitations and the rent of
the vehicle could be covered from the Municipal Council Fund. Monthly rental for the hiring vehicle should be
decided by the Minister in -charge of the subject.
Note:
i. Before proceeding to out of the district, the required travel approval should be obtained from the Commissioner
of Local Government on the prescribed format.
02. Travelling expenses and related payments:
2.1. Not more than a sum of Rs. 1500.00 combined allowance can be paid as subsistence for one day to the Mayor of the
Municipal Council for attend official seminars/programs, subjected to the Provisions of Establishment Code and
these allowances can be paid a maximum of 10 days in a month, and, if exceeded, approval from the Minister in-
charge of the subject should be obtained.
2.2. Not more than a sum of Rs. 1250.00 combined allowance can be paid as subsistence for one day to the Deputy
Mayor or Councilors of the Municipal Council for attend official seminars/programmes, subjected to the Provisions
of Establishment Code and these allowances can be paid a maximum of 10 days in a month, and, if exceeded, the
approval from the Minister in-charge of the subject should be obtained.
2.3. An accommodation allowances with regard to attend the official seminars/programmes not more than the amount
stipulated below could be paid from the Municipal Council fund, subject to the submission of the relevant original
bills.
2.3.1. Mayor - Rs. 3,000.00
2.3.2. Deputy Mayor - Rs. 2,500.00
2.3.3. Councilor - Rs. 2,000.00
Note:
i. These allowances should be paid to the official programmes and duties attended in out of the district where
the Municipal Council is situated.
ii. Unless the official meetings or programmes holding by a proper invitation issued with respect of May or,
Deputy Mayor and Municipal Councilors, no allowances could be paid.
03. Meals & Refreshment Expenses :
3.1. A monthly expenses amount of Rs. 3,000.00 could be reimbursed by the Mayor of Municipal Council as refreshment
allowances from the Municipal Council Fund. The respective expenditure bill should be submitted for the purpose
of reimbursement.
3.2 A monthly expenses amount of Rs. 1,500.00 could be reimbursed by the Deputy Mayor of Municipal Council as
refreshment allowances from the Municipal Council Fund. The respective expenditure bill should be submitted for
the purpose of reimbursement.
3.3 When a meeting precedings in less than 7 hours, in order to providing refreshment to the Councilors and staff of
the Municipal Council an amount of Rs. 100.00 could be spent from the Municipal Council Fund for each participant
attending to the meeting, If such meeting proceeds more than 7 hours, a maximum amount of Rs. 400.00 could be
spent from the Municipal Council Fund for each participants of such Council meeting for providing fo od and
refreshment. The original bills of the expenditure should be submitted for settlement/reimbursement.

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 20'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.07.20 20
04. T elephone Allowances :
4.1. Monthly, an amount of Rs. 4000.00 or the amount of actual telephone bills whichever in less could be reimbursed
by the Mayor from the Municipal Council Fund as an allowance for residence and mobile phone bills.
4.2. Monthly, an amount of Rs. 2500.00 or amount of actual telephone bills whichever in less could be reimbursed from
the Municipal Council Fund by the Deputy Mayor as an allowance for residence and mobile phone bills.
4.3. Monthly, an amount of Rs. 1000.00 or actual telephone bills amount whichever less could be reimbursed from the
Municipal Council Fund by the Councilors as an allowance for residence and mobile phone bill allowance.
Note: The relavant bills submitted for the reimbursement should be written to the name of the Mayor/Deput y
Mayor/Councilor respectively for the purpose of reimbursement.
05. Sitting allowances for Special and Standing Committee Meetings :
5.1. An allowance of Rs. 500.00 could be paid to the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and Councilors of Municipal Council for
attending the special Council meeting (Maximum for 2 meetings) from the Municipal Council Fund.
5.2. An allowance of Rs. 250.00 could be paid to the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and Councilors of Municipal Council for
attending the Standing committee meeting which was established as per the Municipal Council Ordinanc e, for
attending the standard committee meetings from the Municipal Council Fund. In a given month maximum (03) three
sitting allowances for attending the finance committee meeting and maximum (02) two sitting allowanc es for
attending other standard committee meetings could be paid to a Councilor.
06. Allowances to personal staff of the Mayor of Municipal Council :
6.1. A Personal Assistant to the Mayor could be appointed with the prior approval of the Minister in-char ge of the
subject. The personal Assistant should possess at least G .C.E. (Advance Level) qualification with 3 passes in the
main subjects (if old syllabus 4 passes) or should have successfully completed two years Diploma Cer tificate
Course on Office Secretary Ship or equivalent. Personal Assistant could be paid a maximum amount of Rs. 20,000.00
per month as an allowance from the Municipal Council Fund.
07. Depend on the financial strength of the Council, the amount set above as allowances could be reduced with the prior
approval of the Minister - in charge of the subject.
07 - 734/1
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notice
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in the Minister in charge of the subject, under Section 193(1)( g), (gg), (h) of Urban
Council Ordinance (Chapter 266) that should be read with Section 2 of Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act,
No. 12 of 1989, I, Anuradha Yahampath Governor of the Eastern Province, do hereby make regulation pe rtaining to the
following allowances to the Chairman, Vice Chairman and Members of Urban Council. These regulations shall be effected
from 23rd June, 2020.
ANURADHA YAHAMPATH,
Governor of Eastern Province.
Governor's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
23rd June, 2020.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 20'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.07.20 20
4 A
REGULATIONS
01. Fuel limits to Chairman of Urban Council for official visits:
1.1 If a vehicle of Urban Council is used within the Urban Council limits, not more than 80 liters of diesel/petrol and
if such vehicle is used outside of the Urban Council limit for official visits/purposes, not more than 100 liters of
diesel /petrol could be consumed for a Period of one month from the Urban Council fund.
1.2. In the event of non-availability of Urban Council vehicles, with the prior approval of Minister in-c harge of the
subject personal vehicles/hired vehicles could be utilized subject to the above said fuel limitations and the rent of
the vehicle could be covered from the Urban Council Fund. Monthly rental for the hiring vehicles sho uld be
decided by the Minister in -charge of the subject.
Note:
(i) Before proceeding to out of the district, the required travel approval should be obtained from the Commissioner
of Local Government on the prescribed format.
(ii) In case of travelling within the district, the approval from the Assistance Commissioner of Local Government
should be obtained in the prescribed format.
02. Travelling expenses and related payments:
2.1. A sum of not more than Rs. 1,250.00 combined allowance can be paid as subsistence for one day to the Chairman
of the Urban Council for the official seminars/programs, subjected to the Provisions of Establishment Code and
these allowances can be paid a maximum 10 days for a month, and if exceeded, approval from the Minister in-charge
of the subject should be obtained.
2.2. A sum of not more than Rs. 1,000.00 combined allowance can be paid as subsistence for one day can be paid to the
Vice Chairman or Councilors of the Urban Council for the official seminars/programs, subjected to the Provisions
of Establishment Code and these allowances can be paid a maximum 10 days for a month, and if exceede d, the
approval of the Minister in-charge of the subject should be obtained.
2.3. An accommodation allowances with regard to the official seminars/programes not more than the amount stipulated
below could be paid from the Urban Council fund, subject to the submission of the relevant original bills.
2.3.1. Chairman - Rs. 2,500.00
2.3.2. Vice Chairman - Rs. 2,000.00
2.3.3. Councilor - Rs. 1,500.00
Note:
(i) These allowances should be paid to the official programs and duties attended in out of the district where the
Urban Council is situated.
(ii) Unless the official meetings or programes holding by a proper invitation issued with respect to Chairman, Vice
Chairman and Councilors, no allowances could be paid.
03. Meals & Refreshment Expenses :
3.1. A monthly expenses amount of Rs. 2,500.00 could be reimbursed by the Chairman of Urban Council as refreshment
expenses from the Urban Council Fund. The expenditure bill should be submitted for the purpose of reimbursement.
3.2 A monthly expenses amount of Rs. 1,250.00 could be reimbursed by the Vice Chairman of Urban Council as
refreshment expenses from the Urban Council Fund. The Expenditure bill should be submitted for the purpose of
reimbursement.

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 20'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.07.20 20
3.3 In order to providing refreshment to the councilors and staff of the Urban Council an amount of Rs. 100.00 could
be spent from the Urban Council Fund for each person attending to the meeting, If the meeting held l ess than 7
hours. If such meeting proceeds more than 7 hours, a maximum amount of Rs. 400.00 could be spent from the Urban
Council Fund for each participants of such council meeting for providing food and refreshment. The actual bills
should be submitted for this reimbursement.
04. T elephone Allowances :
4.1. Monthly amount of Rs. 3000.00 or actual telephone bills amount whichever less could be reimbursed as residence
and mobile telephone bills allowance from the Urban Council Fund by the Chairman.
4.2. Monthly amount of Rs. 2000.00 or actual telephone bills amount whichever less could be reimbursed as residence
and mobile telephone bills allowance from the Urban Council Fund by the Vice Chairman.
4.3. Monthly amount of Rs. 1000.00 or actual telephone bills amount whichever less could be reimbursed as residence
and mobile telephone bills allowance from the Urban Council Fund by the Councilor (Member).
Note:
The respective bills submitted for the reimbursement should be written to the name of the Chairman/Vice
Chairman/Councilor respectively for the purpose of rimbursement.
05. Sitting allowances for Special and Standing /Advisory Committee Meetings :
5.1. An allowance of Rs. 500.00 could be paid to the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Councilors of Urban Council for
attending the special council meeting (Maximum for 2 meetings) from the Urban Council Fund.
5.2. An allowance of Rs. 250.00 could be paid to the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Councilors of Urban Council and other
members for attending the Standing/Advisory committee meetings which was established as per the Urban Council
Ordinance, for attending the standard/advisory committee meetings from the Urban Council Fund. In a given
month maximum three (03) sitting allowances for attending the finance committee meetings, and maximum two (02)
sitting allowances for attending other standing/Advisory committee meetings could be paid.
06. Allowances to personal staff of the Chairman of  Urban Council :
6.1. A Personal Assistant to the Chairman could be appointed with the prior approval of the Minister in-charge of the
subject. The personal Assistant should possess at least Advance Level qualification with 3 passes in  the main
subjects (if old syllabus 4 passes) or should have successfully completed two years Diploma Certificate Course on
Office Secretary Ship or equivalent. Personal Assistant could be paid a maximum amount of Rs. 20,000.00 per month
as an allowance from the Urban Council Fund.
07. Depend on the financial strength of the council, the amount set above as allowances could be reduced with the prior
approval of the Minister  in-charge of the subject.
07 - 734/2
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notice
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in the Minister in charge of the subject, under Section 184(1)( c), (d), (e) and (f) of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 that should be read with Section 2 of Provincial Countil (Consequential Provisions) Act,

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 20'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.07.20 20
6 A
No. 12 of 1989, I, Anuradha Yahampath Governor of the Eastern Province, do hereby make regulation pe rtaining to the
following allowances to the Chairman, Vice Chairman and Members of  Pradeshiya Sabha. These regulations shall be effected
from 23rd June, 2020.
ANURADHA YAHAMPATH,
Governor of Eastern Province.
Governor's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
23rd June, 2020.
REGULATIONS
01. Fuel limits to Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha for official visits:
1.1 If a vehicle of Pradeshiya Sabha is used within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits and if the extend of the  Pradeshiya
Sabha area is less than or equal of 100 Square Kilometers, not more than 80 liters of diesel/petrol could be
consumed for a period of one month from the Pradeshiya Sabha fund.
1.2. If a vehicle of Pradeshiya Sabha is used within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits and if the extend of the  Pradeshiya
Sabha area in more than 100 Square Kilometers, not more than 90 liters diesel could be consumed for a period of one
month from the Pradeshiya Sabha fund.
1.3. If a vehicle of Pradeshiya Sabha is used outside of the Pradeshiya Sabha limit for official visits/purposes, not more
than 100 liters of diesel/petrol could be consumed for a period of one month from the Pradeshiya Sabha fund.
1.4. In the event of non-availability of Pradeshiya Sabha vehicles, personal vehicles/hired vehicles coul d be utilized
with the prior approval of Minister in-charge of the subject, subject to the above said fuel limitations and the rent
of the vehicle could be covered from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund. Monthly rental for the hiring vehicle should be
decided by the Minister in-charge of the subject.
Note:
i. Before proceeding to out of the district, the required travel approval should be obtained from the Commissioner
of Local Government on the prescribed format.
ii. In case of travelling with in the district, the approval from the Assistance Commissioner of Local Government
should be obtained in the prescribed format.
02. Travelling expenses and related payments:
2.1. A sum of not more than Rs. 1,250.00 combined allowance can be paid as subsistence for one day for Chairman of
the Pradeshiya Sabha for the official seminars/programs, subjected to the Provisions of Establishment Code and
these allowances can be paid maximum 10 days for a month, and if exceeded, approval from the Minister in-charge
of the subject should be obtained.
2.2. A sum of not more than Rs. 1,000.00 combined allowance can be paid as subsistence for one day for Vice Chairman
or Councilors of the Pradeshiya Sabha for the official seminars/programs, subjected to the Provision s of
Establishment Code and these allowances can be paid maximum 10 days for a month, and if exceeded, the approval
of the Secretary to the Ministry in-charge of the subject should be obtained.
2.3. An accommodation allowances with regard to the official seminars/programs not more than the amount stipulated
below could be paid from the Pradeshiya Sabha fund, subject to the submission of the relevant original bills.
2.3.1. Chairman - Rs. 2,500.00
2.3.2. Vice Chairman - Rs. 2,000.00
2.3.3. Councilor - Rs. 1,500.00

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 20'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.07.20 20
Notes:
i. These allowances should be paid to the official programs and duties attended in out of the district where the
Pradeshiya Sabha is situated.
ii. Unless the official meetings or programes holding by a proper invitation issued with respect to Chairman, Vice
Chairman and Councilors, no allowances could be paid.
03. Meals & Refreshment Expenses :
3.1. A monthly expenses amount of Rs. 2,000.00 could be reimbursed by the Chairman of  Pradeshiya Sabha a s
refreshment expenses from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund. The respective expenditure bill should be submi tted for
the purpose of reimbursement.
3.2 A monthly expenses amount of Rs. 1,000.00 could be reimbursed by the Vice Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha as
refreshment expenses from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund. The respective expenditure bill should be submi tted for
the purpose of reimbursement.
3.3 When a meeting preceding in less than 7 hours, in order to providing refreshment to the councilors and staff of the
Urban Council an amount of Rs. 100.00 could be spent from the Urban Council Fund for each person attending to
the meeting. If Such meeting proceeds more than 7 hours, a maximum amount of Rs. 400.00 could be spent from the
Urban Council Fund for each participants of such council meeting for providing food and refreshment. The original
bills should be submitted for reimbursement.
04. T elephone Allowances :
4.1. Monthly amount of Rs. 2,500,00 or actual telephone bills amount whichever less could be reimbursed as residence
and mobile telephone bills allowance from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund by the Chairman.
4.2. Monthly amount of Rs. 1,500.00 or actual telephone bills amount whichever less could be reimbursed as residence
and mobile telephone bills allowance from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund by the Vice Chairman.
4.3. Monthly amount of Rs. 1,000.00 or actual telephone bills amount whichever less could be reimbursed as residence
and mobile telephone bills allowance from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund by the Member.
Note: The respective bills submitted for the reimbursement should be written to the name of the  Chairman/Vice
Chairman/Councilor respectively for the purpose of reimbursement.
05. Sitting allowances for Special and Standing /Advisory Committee Meetings :
5.1. An allowance of Rs. 500.00 could be paid to the Chairman, Deputy Chairmanr and Councilors of Pradeshiya Sabha
for attending the special council meeting (Maximum for 2 meetings) from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund.
5.2. An allowance of Rs. 250.00 could be paid to the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Councilors of Pradeshiya Sabha and
other members for attending the Standing/Advisory committee meeting which was established as per the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, for attending the standard/advisory committee meetings from the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund. In a given
month maximum three (03) sitting allowances for attending the finance committee meeting, and maximum two (02)
sitting allowances for attending other standing/Advisory committee meetings could be paid.
06. Depend on the financial strength of the council, the amount set above as allowances could be reduced with the prior
approval of the Minister in-charge of the subject.
07 - 734/3
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.