

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 17.07.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2184$34 - 2020 cQ,s ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'07'17
No. 2184/34 - FRIDAY,   JULY  17, 2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
L.D-B 40/1973 (I)
QUARANTINE AND PREVENTION OF DISEASES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 222)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health and Indigenous Medical Services under section 2 and 3 of the Quarantine
and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance (Chapter 222).
PA VITHRA WANNIARACHCHI ,
 Minister of Health and Indigenous Medical Services.
Colombo,
17th July, 2020.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) (Elections) Regulations, No. 1 of 2020.
2. Every person who intends to organise a meeting in relation to an election during the period of an election shall give
notice in writing prior to not less than twenty-four hours of the commencement of such meeting to the Medical Officer of
Health of the area in which such meeting is to be held.
3. The organizer who gives the notice under regulation 2 shall ensure that the number of persons attending such
meeting shall not exceed three hundred:
Provided, however, where the leader of a political party or an independent group participates at such meeting, the
number of persons attending such meeting shall not exceed five hundred.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A- PG 5005 — 517  (07/2020)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 17.07.2020
2A
4. The organizer shall –
(a) maintain a record of the name, identity card number and contact detail of every person attending such
meeting;
(b) provide adequate hand washing facility with soap or sanitiser for the persons attending such meeting and
ensure that every person who attends such premises washes their hands before entering the premises;
(c)  ensure social distancing not less than one metre between two persons including speakers attending such
meeting;
(d) ensure that every person who attends such meeting wears a face mask at all times; and
(e) disinfect or cause to be disinfected the equipments including the microphone immediately after being used by
a person.
5. A group of persons visiting the houses of electors during the period of an election for the purpose of canvassing
for the votes of such electors or distribution of hand bills or other printed materials shall not exceed five.
6. The group of persons referred to in regulation 5 shall-
(a) at all times wear a face mask and maintain social distancing of not less than one metre between themselves
and between themselves and occupants of the house; and
(b) sanitise their hands before distributing hand bills or other printed materials to the occupants of the house.
7.  Every candidate in any election shall -
(a) provide adequate hand washing facility with soap or sanitiser for the persons visiting the election office and
its premises of such candidate and ensure that every person who visits such office and premises  washes their
hands before entering the premises;
(b)  ensure social distancing of not less than one metre between two persons at such office and its premises;
(c) ensure that every person who visits such office and its premises wears a face mask at all times;
(d) ensure that no alcohol is brought into or consumed within such office and its premises; and
(e) ensure that no games of chance or skills are played within such office and its premises.
8. Every person who is in any polling station and its premises, counting centres and its premises and  the office of
the Election Commission and its premises shall –
(a) sanitise his hands with soap or sanitiser before entering the polling station and its premises, counting centres
and its premises and  the office of the Election Commission and its premises;
(b) maintain social distancing of not less than one metre between two persons; and
(c) wear a face mask at all times.
9.     In these regulations-
“during the period of an election” means the period commencing on the making of a Proclamation or Order for the
conduct of a Referendum or for the holding of an election, as the case may be, and ending on the date on which
the result of poll taken at such Referendum or election, as the case may be, is declared.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.