

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
731
731
wxl 1"807 - 2013 wfm%a,a 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'04'19
No. 1,807 – FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 734
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 736
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th of May, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th
April, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III and III of the Gazette No. 1,806 of 12.04.2013 were not published.
Note .— (i) Strategic Development Projects (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(ii) Marriage Registration (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(iii) Inland Revenue (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
732
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
733
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
734
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  AND  PLANNING
Valuation Department
OPEN RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL
OFFICER (EXECUTIVE LEVEL, GRADE III)
APPLICATIONS are called from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka
with below mentioned qualifications for two vacancies in the post
of Legal Officer of the Valuation Department.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Applicants with the highest marks
will be recruited as per the number of existing vacancies based on
the results of a structured interview conducted by a Board of
Directors appointed by the Public Service Commission out of the
applicants who have fulfilled the qualification given in the
notification. The structured interview will be conducted in
conformity with the marking scheme (mentioned under No. 06)
approved by the Public Service Commission.
02. Required qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional qualifications .– Being an
Attorney-at-law of the Supereme Court/having a Degree
in Law from a University recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
(ii) Experience.– Having not less than three years of active
professional experience subsequent to taking oaths as an
Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court.
(iii) Physical Fitness.– All candidates should possess and
adequate physical and mental fitness to fulfill the duties
in the post and to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(iv) Other :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* Should have an excellent moral character.
* Should have completed necessary qualifications for
the post before the closing date of applications.
03. Terms of engagement and conditions of service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Officers should
contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(ii) Appointment is subject to a probation period of 03 years.
Officers should pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination
within 03 years from the recruitment to the post of Legal
Officer, Grade III as mentioned in the Recruitment
Procedure.
(iii) Officers should acquire the proficiency of the other official
language in addition to the language in which he/she was
recruited to the service within 05 years of appointment
as per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007.
(iv) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission published in the
Extraordinary Gazette  of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009
and the provisions of the Establishment Code.
04. Age Limit.– Candidates should not be less than 21 years of
age and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of
applications.
05. Salary Scale .– This post is entitled to the monthly salary
scale of Rs. 22,935 - 10x 645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
(SL 1-2006 salary code as per the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006).
06. Marks for the structured interview will be given based on
the marking scheme given below :
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 20
02. Additional professional qualifications 15
03. Additional Experience
05 marks for each year of professional experience 30
exceeding 03 years as an Attorney-at-Law of the
Supreme Court
04. Proficiency in English Language 15
05. Computer Skills, knowledge of Intormation 15
Technology
06. Skills shown at the interview 05
Total marks 100
Note :
(1) Only those who have submitted complete applications
in every respect will be called for the interview.
(2) Originals and duly certified copies of all the certificates
should be submitted at the interview.
07. Identity of Candidates. – Only the applicants who have
submitted complete applications in every respect will be called for
the structured interview.
Following documents will be accepted to prove the identity of
candidates at the interview :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Registration of
Persons Department ;
(ii) Valid Passport.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
735
08. ( a) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach
the following address on or before 20.05.2013. Applications
received after the said date will be rejected.
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
The Secretariat,
Colombo 01.
(b) Specimen form of application which should be submitted
is given at the end of the notification. Applications should
be prepared on A4 papers to have No. 01-08 on the 1st
page, No. 9-11 on the 2nd page and No. 12(I) - 12(II) on
the 3rd page and should be filled in their own handwriting.
(c) It should be noted as “Application for the recruitment to
the post of Legal Officer of the Valuation Department” on
the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application.
(d) Candidate's signature on the application should be attested
by the a Principal of a Government.
School/Justice of the Peace/Commissioned Officer in Tri
Forces or a Public Officer holding permanent post in the
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th May , 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
25th March, 2013
government drawing a consolidated monthly salary of
Rs. 22,935.
(e) The candidates who are already in Public Service should
forward their application through the Head of Department.
(f) The applications which are not in conformity of the
specimen given will be rejected. No complaint with respect
to loss or delay of applications will be accepted.
09. Furnishing Inaccurate Details. – If any of the particulars
furnished by you is found to be incorrect or erroneous before the
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled.
If such incorrect or erroneous particulars are revealed after the
recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss from the service subject
to the relevant procedures.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
The Secretariat,
Colombo 01.
04–651

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
736
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Marriage Registrar of Yatikinda District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Division (Kandyan/General) General, District Secretariat,  Badulla
04–477
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 1,2-I,2-II
and 3 in the Sri Lanka Principals Service – 2013
IT is hereby informed that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers
in Class 1,2-I,2-II and 3 in the Sri Lanka Principals Service will be
held in August 2013 in Colombo.
02. The syllabus and other provisions related to this examination
were published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 1,086/26 of 02.07.1999.
The Syllabus and other provisions contained in that gazette are set
out below for the convenience of the applicant. (As the provisions
of Section D of paragraph 27 of the constitute of the Sri Lanka
Principals Service, according to which officers over the age of 45
years can be exempted from Efficiency Bar Examination, have been
abolished by Public Administration Circular No. 20/2001 of
12.09.2001 all officers of the Principals Service should pass the
Efficiency Bar Examinations.)
(a) Scheme of the Examination : Subjects of the Efficiency Bar
Examination are given below :
Subject No. 01 : Provision of the Establishment Code :
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions - time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : Structured question paper - time 01 hour, 50
marks.
Subject No. 02 : Financial Management in Schools :
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions - time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : Structured question paper - time 01 hour, 50
marks.
Subject No. 03 : Education Administration and Supervision :
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions - time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : Structured question paper - time 01 hour, 50
marks.
Policies of the Ministry of Education. The Organization and
functions of Departments and institutions of the Ministry of
Education including Provincial Departments of Education. School
Administration, Relationship between the School and Society, School
Supervision and the Evaluation of the Performance of Teachers,
Education Planning at National, Regional and School level.
03. A minimum of 40% of the marks or more should be scored in
each of the subject offered by a candidate to pass the examination.
04. Language medium for the examination Sinhala/Tamil/English
(No change will be permitted from the language applied).
05. If it is revealed that a candidate is sitting the examination in a
language for which he is not entitled his candidature can be declared
invalid.
5.1 The results sheet including the results of all candidates
who sat for the examination will be handed over to the
Secretary, Ministry of Education. Individual results sheets
will not be submitted to the candidates by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
06. The application should be prepared according to the format
given below, with sections 1-6 appearing in the first page and the
balance in the next page. The relevant particulars should be entered
clearly in the candidates own handwriting. Please note that
applications which do not conform to the model format given and
which are incomplete will be rejected without notice. It would be
helpful to retain a photocopy of the application. Further, the
candidate should insure that the application submitted conforms to
the model format provided in the Examination Notice. Please note
that if it does not conform, it will be rejected.
It is also informed that when preparing the application in Sinhala,
the title of the examination should be given in English in addition to
the title in Sinhala. In application made in Tamil, in addition to the
title in Tamil the title should also be given in English.
07. While the examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, candidates are bound to adhere to the rules
and regulations he has formulated to conduct the examination. The
relevant rules and regulations are given at the end of this notice.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
737
08. Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the
“Commissioner General of examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla” on or before the 20th May,
2013 through the Principal/Divisional Director of Education/Zonal
Director of Education or the Additional Provincial Director of
Education/Provincial Director of Education or the Head of your
service. Applications received after this date will be rejected.
09. Immediately after Admission Cards are issued to candidates a
press notice to this effect will be published by the Department of
Examinations. If Admission Cards are not received 2 or 3 days after
the notice is published, this should be brought to the notice of the Sri
Lanka Department of Examinations in the manner set out in the
notice. When informing the Department, it would be helpful to
forward certified copies of the Application and the Receipt for the
payment and the Receipt forRegistration of the Application letter
and if residing in an area beyond Colombo, a fax number for the
Admission card to be sent. The issue of an Admission card to a
candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance that quailfications
to take up the Examination have been satisfied.
(i) Name of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name of the candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Address of the candidate :––––––––––.
(iv) The date the application was posted, Registration
number and the post office :––––––––––.
(iv) Those residing close by are advised to inform the
Commissioner General of Examination through a
messenger :––––––––––.
10. Complaints (subsequently forwarded) by candidates who do
not satisfy the requirements set out in 08 above, will not be
considered.
11. It is the responsibility of candidates to establish their identify.
The following only will be accepted for this purpose.
(i) National Identity card issued by the Department for the
Registration of Persons.
(ii) V alid passport.
12. Examination fees :
(a) Frees charged for this examination will for no reason
whatever be refunded nor will it be permitted to be
transferred for another Examination.
(b) No fee will be charged for the first attempt either for the
whole examination or for a part thereof.
(c) Charged levied thereafter for each attempt are given
below :
For the full examination Rs. 400
For one subject Rs. 200
The full fee of Rs. 400 or the subject fee of Rs. 200 can be paid at
any District Secretriat or Divisional Secretariat in the Island to the
credit of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations and the receipt should be firmly affixed at the proper
place in the Application. It would be helpful to retain a photocopy
of the receipt.
13. The candidates are subject to the rules and regulations enacted
by the Commissioner General of Examination for the conducting of
the Examination. It is notified that in case these rules and regulations
are violated, the candidate will have to bear any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
S. M. G
OTABHAYA JAYARATHNA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatte,
19th April, 2013.
APPLICA TION FORM
D
EPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS, SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS 1, 2-I, 2-II AND 3 OF
THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE – 2013
(Please forward by Registered Post to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla
through the Principal/Divisional/Zonal Director of Education/
Additional provincial Director of Education/Provincial Director of
Education).
01. Language medium for the examination :
(Enter the relevant Number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
02. ( a) Name with initials, with initials at the end. (With initials in
English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
(Eg.– SILV A, H. A.)
(b) Full name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––.
(iii) Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
04. (i) Class/Grade in the Principal Service :–––––––––––.
(ii) School/Office :–––––––––––.
(iii) Provincial Department of Examinations/Zonal Education
Office :–––––––––––.
05. (i) National Identity Card Number :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
738
(ii) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
06. Subject applied for, with the subject number given in paragraph
02(a) of the Gazette Notice.
Subject No. 01 : Provision of the Enter the
Establishment  Code subject. In
Subject No. 02 : Financial Management number/
Schools numbers in
Subject No. 03 : Education Administration the cage/
and Supervision cages
07. State whether you have appeared for this examination previously,
either in full or in parts. If so state the Subject, Subject Number,
Year and the medium :
Subject Subject No. Y ear Medium
08. Particulars of the receipt obtained for examination free :–––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––.
Divisional/District Office :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.
Affix receipt here
I hereby declare the particulars provided above are correct.
Further, I agree to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the Examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examination
I certify that the candidate whose particulars are given above is
an officer in my School/office. I also certify that he has affixed the
receipt for Examination fee.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Principal/Divisional or Zonal
Director of Education/Additional Director of
Education/Provincial Director of Education.
(It a Principal, please give name of the school).
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Delete inapplicable words)
04–478
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE
OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION
AND  HEALTH  SERVICE – 2012(2013)
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in the above mentioned Service will be held in Peradeniya
in August, 2013. Applications are called from the officers who were
in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at 31st
December, 2012.
02. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for
the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
03. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency
Bar Examinations 1 are stated in the service minute. Accordingly
Syllabus for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal
Production and Health Service is given in Appendix  "A".
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. The prescribed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examinations
I are given below :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
1st Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration
No. (hours)
01 Financial Systems 3
02 Administration 3
03 Dept. Regulations Paper I 2
04 Dept. Regulations Paper II 3
05 Special Paper* 3
* Only for the Veterinary Research Officers.
05. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency
Bar Examinations is drawn to Paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :–
“The medium for departmental examinations (including
Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the
language in which the officer sat for the Competitive
Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official
Language. But the officers who entered the service without a
competitive examination should select either the Language in
which the officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or
the Official Language”.
06. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of
Examinations enabling the candidates to answer the following papers
in Sinhala, Tamil, English. Permission will not be given to change
the medium applied by the candidate later.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
739
07. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination
in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will be
cancelled.
08. The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size
paper using both sides of it.  It should be noted that the Cages 01 to
08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the
other side of the paper. The application should be filled by the
candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the
specimen form and the incomplete applications forms will be rejected
without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep
a Photostat Copy of the application for his use. Further the
candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with
the specimen application appeared in the notice. The name of the
examination should be written in English too in the applications
prepared in Sinhala or Tamil medium.
09. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and
regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate
violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of
Department/Institute by Registered Post to reach the Director
General of Animal Production and Health to the address given
below on or before 23rd of May, 2013. The applications received
after the closing date will be rejected :–
The Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
11. A paper notice will be published by the Department of
Examinations as soon as the Admission Cards are issued to the
candidates. If the Admission Card is not received 2-3 days after the
publication of the notice, it should be informed to the Department
of Animal Production and Health as stated in the notice. It is useful
to keep certified photostat copies of the application and receipt for
the payment and receipt for the registration with your request and
those who reside outside Colombo should contact giving the Fax
Number and contact the Department of Animal Production and
Health.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have
failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above Paragraph 11
will not be considered.
13. Only the National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted
for the examinations conducted by the Department of Examinations
in order to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination
hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the
examination, on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this
examination for the first time,
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 1,000 0
Single subject Rs. 500 0
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above examination
fees should be paid to any District or Divisional Secretariat situated
in the Island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt of it should
be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application. Further
it may be useful to keep a photostat copy of it.
15. Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate will not be
considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
D
EP ARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEAL TH SERVICE - 2012(2013)
The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope.
Language Medium of Examination  :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in block letters)  :––––––––––.
(Ex. : NIMALSIRI K. A.)
(b) Names denoted by initials (in block letters)  :–––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
740
02. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation (in block letters) :––––––––––.
Name of Department (in block letters) :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block letters)
:––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph
04 of the notification (should be written clearly) :
(i) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(ii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iv) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(v) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
07. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination
previously  :–––––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :–––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am
entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the examination.
09. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health
Forwarded :-
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is
eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
I also certify that the receipt paying the prescribed examination
fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fee not be paid)
ANNEXURE “A”
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri
Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise
the following subjects :
1. Financial systems ;
2. Administration ;
3. Departmental Regulation – I
4. Departmental Regulation - II
1. Financial Systems :
The examination in Financial Systems will be based on the
followings :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka
(Except Chapter X) ;
Note.- A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks
for a pass.
2. Administration :
The examination in Administration will be based on the
followings :
(a) Office Systems, Office Management and knowledge on
office organization ;
(b) The Establishments Code Chapters I, II, III, V, VI
amended by the Service Procedure of Public Service
Commission and Establishment Code Chapters VII, VIII,
IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII, XIX,  XXXIII,
XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII AND XLVIII) ;
Note.– A candidate of should obtain 40% of the total
marks for a pass.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
741
3. Departmental Regulations - 1
The examination in Departmental Regulations will be based on
the followings :
A two hours paper on the following subjects :
Animal Act, the Animal Disease Act and related regulations,
Departmental Orders and circulars relevant to Veterinary
Surgeon's Services
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a
pass.
4. Departmental Regulations - II
A three hours paper on the following subjects :–
(a) Dissemination of specimens, laboratory identification
including post - mortem examination. Pregnancies
diagnosis, vaccines for contagious and infectious disease,
sera logical test.
(b) Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations,
principles relevant to breeding and rearing of calves,
hatching and rearing of chicks by incubation, animal
nutrition food rationing usage. pasture fodder cultivation,
preparation of silages and Livestock Management.
(c) Milk production, bottling and transportation of
pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in milk, separation of
cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd.
(d) Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of animal in
abattoirs, identification of meat.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the marks for a
pass.
04–641/1
–––––––––––––––
SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL
PRODUCTION  AND   HEALTH  SERVICE – 2012(2013)
IT is hereby notified that the Second Efficiency Bar Examination
for the Officers in the above mentioned Service will be held in
Peradeniya in August, 2013. Applications are called from the officers
who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as
at 31st December, 2012.
02. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for
the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
03. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency
Bar Examinations II are stated in the service minute. Accordingly
Syllabus for the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal
Production and Health Service is given in Appendix  "A".
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. The prescribed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examination
II are given below :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
2nd Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration
No. (hours)
01 Part 01 3
02 Part 02 3
03 Part 03 - Paper I 3
04 Part 03 - Paper II 3
05 Part 03 - Paper III 3
06 Part 03 - Paper IV 3
07 Part 03 - Paper V 3
08 Part 03 - Paper VI 3
09 Part 03 - Paper VII 3
10 Part 03 - Paper VIII 3
11 Part 03 - Paper IX 3
12 Part 03 - Paper X 3
13 Part 03 - Paper XI 3
Note.–  The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar
Examination should select either Part 01 or  02 and two
question papers from the above XI papers in Part 03.
Candidate should obtain at least 40% marks for each
paper.
05. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency
Bar Examinations is drawn to Paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :–
“The medium for departmental examinations (including
Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be
the language in which the officer sat for the Competitive
Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official
Language. But the officers who entered the service without
a competitive examination should select either the
Language in which the officer qualified for entry to the
Public Service or the Official Language”.
06. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of
Examinations enabling the candidates to answer the following papers
in Sinhala, Tamil, English. Permission will not be given to change
the medium applied by the candidate later :–
07. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination
in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will be
cancelled.
08. The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
742
paper using both sides of it. It should be noted that the Cages 01 to
08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the
other side of the paper. The application should be filled by the
candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the
specimen form and the incomplete applications forms will be rejected
without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep
a Photostat Copy of the application for his use. Further the
candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with
the specimen application appeared in the notice. The name of the
examination should be written in English too in the applications
prepared in Sinhala or Tamil medium.
09. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by rules
and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations
are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any of
the rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of
Department/Institute by Registered Post to reach the Director
General of Animal Production and Health to the address given
below on or before 23rd of May, 2013. The applications received
after the closing date will be rejected :–
Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
11. A paper notice will be published by the Department of
Examinations as soon as the Admission Cards are issued to the
candidates. If the Admission Card is not received 2-3 days after the
publication of the notice, it should be informed to the Department
of Animal Production and Health as stated in the notice. It is useful
to keep certified photostat copies of the application and receipt for
the payment and receipt for the registration with your request and
those who reside outside Colombo should contact giving the Fax
Number and contact the Department of Animal Production and
Health.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have
failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above Paragraph 11
will not be considered.
13. Only the National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or the valid Passport will be accepted
for the examinations conducted by the Department of Examinations
in order to prove the identity of the Candidate at the examination
hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the
examination, on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this
examination for the first time,
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 1,000 0
Single subject Rs. 500 0
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above examination
fees should be paid to any District or Divisional Secretariat situated
in the Island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt of it should
be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application. Further
it may be useful to keep a photostat copy of it.
15. Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate will not be
considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
March, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SER VICE - 2012(2013)
The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope.
Language Medium of Examination  :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in block letters)  :––––––––––.
(Ex. : NIMALSIRI K. A.)
(b) Name denoted by initials (in block letters)  :–––––––––.
02. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation (in block letters)  :––––––––––.
Name of Department (in block letters) :––––––––––.
04. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block letters)
:––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.04.2013
743
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph
04 of the notification (should be written clearly) :
(i) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(ii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iv) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(v) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
07. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination
previously  :–––––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :–––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am
entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the examination.
09. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health
Forwarded :-
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is
eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
I also certify that the receipt paying the prescribed examination
fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fee not be paid)
APPENDIX  “A”
The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service will comprse the following
subjects.
Part I Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2,
8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the Sylalbus.
The syllabus can be obtained from the Director General
of Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya and the entire Provincial Directors' offices
of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part II Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1,
10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8,
10:4:1 of the syllabus. The Syllabus can be obtained
from the Director General of Department of AP&H,
Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors' office of
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part III Paper I – Epidemiology
Part II - Livestock Economics
Part III - Veterinary Public Health
Part IV - Agriculture Extension
Part V - Genetics and Breeding
Part VI - Animal Physiology and reporduction
Part VII - Housing for animals and Management
Part VIII - Animal Nutrition
Par IX - Pasture and Fodder
Part X - Applied Vet. Microbiolgy and
Immunology
XI - Applied Medicine, Pathology and
Parasitology
Details can be obtained from the Director General of Department
of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all Provincial
Directors' office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
04–641/1