

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2292$57 – 2022 wf.daia;= ui 13 jeks fikiqrdod – 2022'08'13
No. 2292/57 – SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 2022
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG5822 – 156 (2022/04)
L.D.-B.7/ 2017.
CONVENTION  AGAINST  DOPING  IN  SPORT  ACT, No. 33 OF 2013
RULES made by the Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency under section 33 of the Convention Against Doping in Sport Act, No.33 
of 2013.
         Chairman,
         Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency.
Colombo. 
17th February 2022
R
ULES 
 1. These Rules may be cited as the Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Rules of 2022 and shall come into operation with effect 
from 01.01.2022
 Application of Anti-Doping Rules
 2. These rules shall apply to - 
 ( a) Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency (hereinafter referred to as the ''SLADA" including its board members, directors, 
ofﬁ cers, speciﬁ ed employees and delegated third parties and their employees, who involve in any aspect of doping Control;
13.01.2022

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 2A
 ( b) any sports organization of Sri Lanka, including its board members, directors, of ﬁ cers and speciﬁ ed employees 
and delegated third parties and their employees who involve in any aspect of doping Control; and
 ( c) the following athletes, athlete support personnel and other persons whether such person is a national or resident  
of Sri Lanka;
   (i) every athlete or athlete support personnel who is a member or licence holder or any member or af ﬁ liate 
organization of any Sports Organization in Sri Lanka, including any club, team, association or league;
   (ii) every athlete or athlete support personnel who participate in such capacity in any event, competition 
or other activity organized, convened, authorized or recognized by any Sports Organization in Sri Lanka or any member or 
afﬁ liate organization of any Sports Organization in Sri Lanka, including any club, team, association or league irrespective 
of the place where such event, competition or other activity is held;
   (iii) any athlete or athlete support personnel by virtue of an accreditation granted by any Government Sports 
Organization, a licence or other contractual arrangement, or otherwise, is subject to the jurisdiction of any Sports Organization 
in Sri Lanka, or of any member of afﬁ liate organization of any Sports Organization in Sri Lanka, including any club, team, 
association of league, for the purpose of anti-doping;
   (iv) every athlete or athlete support personnel who participate in any capacity in any activity organized, 
held, convened or authorized by any organizer of a National Event or of a national league that is not afﬁ liated with a Sports 
Organization;
   (v) any person who engages or participates in sports of ﬁ tness activities for recreational purposes but 
who do not compete in competitions or events organized, recognized or hosted by sports organizations or by any af ﬁ liated 
or non- afﬁ liated association, organization, club, team or league and who has not been an International-level athlete within 
the ﬁ ve years prior to committing any anti- doping rule violation or National- level Athlete or other National Anti-Doping 
Organaization consistent with the International Standards for testing or has not represented Sri Lanka or any other country in 
an international event in an open category or by any other International Federation, Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency or other 
National Anti-Doping Organization.
   (vi) any other person, including any athlete who is a national or resident in Sri Lanka and every athlete 
who is present in Sri Lanka whether to compete, train or otherwise over whom the Code of the world Anti-Doping Agency 
gives the jurisdiction of the Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency.
 3. For the purpose of rule 2 National Level Athlete includes-
   ( a) any Athlete who is a member or licence holder of any sports organization in Sri Lanka or any other 
                                  organization afﬁ liated with a sports organization including associations, clubs, teams or leagues;
   ( b) any  Athlete who participate of compete at any competition, event , or activity which is organized, 
                       recoganized, or hosted by  a sports organization, by any af ﬁ liated association, organization, club, 
                                   teams or leagues;
   ( c) any Athlete who by virtue of an accreditation, a license or any other contractual agreement falls within 
                                the competence of a sports organization in Sri Lanka or any af ﬁ liated association, organization, club, 
                                  team or league in Sri Lanka for the purpose of ﬁ ghting doping in Sri Lanka; and
   ( d) Any Athlete who participate in any activity organized, recognized, or hosted by a sports event organizer 
                                  in Sri Lanka or any other national league and not afﬁ liated with a sports organization
 4. Any person as speci ﬁ ed in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) in rule 2 shall be deemed to have agreed to be bound by 
these Anti-Doping Rules and to have subject to the authority of Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency to enforce these Rules and to 
the jurisdiction of the hearing panels speciﬁ ed in rule 38 and rule 70 to hear and determine cases and appeals brought under 
these rules, as a condition of their membership, accreditation of participation in any sport.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 3A
Anti-Doping Rule Violations
 5. The following shall consititute an Anti-Doping Rule violation:-
  ( a) (i) Presence of a prohibited substance or its metabolites or markers in an athlete's "A" sample where the athlete 
                         waives the analysis of the "B" sample and the ''B" sample is not analyzed or, where the athlete's "B" sample 
                is analyzed and the analysis of the Athlete's "B" sample confirms the presence of the prohibited 
                         substance or its metabolites or markers found in the athlete' s "A" sample or, where the athlete's "A" or "B" 
                 sample is split into two parts and the analysis of the con ﬁ rmation part of the spilt sample con ﬁ rms the 
                         presence of the prohibited substance or its metabolites or markers found in the ﬁ rst part of the split sample 
                          or the Athlete waives analysis of the conformation part of the split sample;
       (ii) excepting those substances for which a Decision Limit is speci ﬁ cally identiﬁ ed in the Prohibited List or 
a Technical Document the presence of any reported quantity of a prohibited substance or its metabolites or markers in an 
athlete's sample;
                        (iii) for the purpose of paragraphs (i) and (ii) It is the responsibility of each athlete to ensure that no prohibited 
substance enters his body and that no prohibited method is used. Accordingly it is not necessary that intent fault, negligence 
or knowing  use on the athlete's part be demonstrated in order to establish an anti-doping rule violation under Rule 5.
 
 (b) use or attempted use by an athlete of a prohibited substance or prohibited method. It is the athlete’s personal duty 
             to ensure that no prohibited substance enters their bodies and that no prohibited method is used. It is not 
                      necessary that intent fault, negligence or knowing use on the athlete’s part be demonstrated in order to establish 
           an anti-doping rule violation for Use of a prohibited substance or prohibited method. or The success or 
                    failure of the use or attempted use of an athlete of a prohibited substance or prohibited method is not material.
 (c) evading, refusing or failing to submit of sample collection, without compelling justiﬁ cation, after notiﬁ cation 
                    by a duly authorized person in these Anti-Doping Rules;
 (d) any combination of three missed tests or ﬁ ling failures, as deﬁ ned in the International Standard for Results 
                    Management within a twelve-month period by an Athlete in a Registered Testing Pool;
 (e) Tampering or attempted tampering with any part of doping control by an Athlete or other person.
 (f) Possession of a prohibited substance or prohibited method by an Athlete or Athlete support person. This 
                   includes-
  (i) Possession by an athlete in-competition of any prohibited substance or or any prohibited method or 
possession by athlete out-of-competition of any prohibited substace or any prohibited method which is prohibited out-of-
competition unless the athlete establishes that the possession is consistent with a Therapeutic Use Exemption (hereinafter 
referred to as the ‘‘TUE’’) granted in accordance with rule 17 or other acceptable justiﬁ cation; and
  (ii) Possession by an athlete support person in-competition of any prohibited substance or any prohibited 
method, or possession by an athlete support person out-of-competition of any prohibited substance or any prohibited method 
which is prohibited out-of-competition in connection with an athlete, competition or training, unless the athlete support 
person establishes that the possession is consistent with a TUE gtanted to an athlete in accordance with rule 17 or other 
acceptable justiﬁ cation.
 (g) Trafﬁ cking or attempted trafﬁ cking in any prohibited substance or prohibited method;
 (h) Administration or attempted administration by an Athlete or other person to any athlete in-competition of any 
                     prohibited  substance or prohibited method, or administration or attempted administration to any athlete out-of-
competition of any prohibited substance or any prohibited method that is prohibited out-of-competition;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 4A
 (i) Assisting, encouraging, aiding, abetting, conspiring, covering up ar any other intentional complicity or attempted 
                    complicity involving a violation or attempted violation of an anti-doping rule or any violation by another person 
                   under rule 61;
 (j) Association by an athlete or other Person subject to the authority of the SLADA in a professional or sport-related 
                   copacity with any athlete support personnel who-
  (i) if subject to authority of an Anti-Doping Organization, is serving a period of ineligibility;
  (ii) if not subject to the authority of an Anti-Doping Organization, and where ineligibility has not been 
addressed in a results management process pursuant to the World Anti-Doping Code (hereinafter referred as the “code”) has 
been convicted or found in a criminal, disciplinary or professional proceeding to have engaged in conduct which would have 
constituted a violation of any anti-doping rule if Code-compliant reles had been applicable to such Person. The disqualifying 
status of such person shall be in force for the longer of six years from the criminal, professional or disciplinary decision or  
the duration of the criminal,  disciplinary or professionl sanction imposed; or
  (iii) is serving as a front or intermediary for an individual described in paragraphs (i) and (ii).
 (k) following acts by an Athlete or other person to discourage or retaliate against reporting to authorities where such 
                    conduct does not constitute a violation of rule 5 (e)-
   (i) any act which threatens or seeks to intimidate another person with the intent of discouraging the 
person from the good-faith reporting of information that relates to an alleged anti-doping rule violation or alleged non-
compliance with the code to World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), an anti-doping organisation, low enforement, regulatory 
or professional disciplinary body, hearing body or person conducting an investigation for ‘‘WADA” or an anti-doping 
organization.
   (ii) retaliation against a person who in good faith has provided evidence or information that relates to an 
alleged anti-doping rule violation or alleged non-compliance with the code to “WADA” , an anti-doping organisation, law 
enforcement, regulatory or professional disciplinary body, hearing body or person conducting an investigation for “WADA” 
or an anti-doping organization.
   (iii) for the purposes of (k) (i) and (ii), retaliation, threatening and intimidation includes an act taken 
against a person either becouse the act lacks a good faith basis or is a disproportionate response.
Proof of Doping
 6. (1) The SLADA shall have the burden of establishing that an anti-doping rule violation has occurred.
 (2) The standard of proof of doping shall be whether the SLADA has established an anti-doping rule violation to 
the comfortable satisfaction of the hearing panel bearing in mind the seriousness of the allegation which is made.
 (3) This standard of proof in all cases shall be greater than a mere balance of probability but less than proof beyond 
a reasonable doubt.
 (4) Where these Anti-Doping Rules place the burden of proof upon the athlete or other person alleged to have 
committed an anti-doping rule violation to rebut a presumption or establish speci ﬁ ed facts or circumstances, except as 
provided in rule 9 and 10 the standard of proof shall be by a balance of probability.
Methods of Establishing Facts and Presumptions
 7. The SLADA may establish an anti-doping rule violation under rule 5 (b) based on the athlete’s admissions, 
the credible testimony of third persons, reliable documentary evidence, reliable analytical data from either an “A” or “B” 
Sample as provided in the example to rule 5 (b) or conclusion drawn from the pro ﬁ le of a series of the athlete’s  blood or 
urine samples.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 5A
 8. Any analytical method or Decision Limit approved by the WADA after consultation within the relevant scienti ﬁ c 
community or with the relevant laboratory accredited by the WADA and which have been the subject of peer review are 
presumed to  be scienti ﬁ cally valid. Any athlete or other person seeking to challenge whether the conditions for such 
presumption have been met or to rebut this presumption of scienti ﬁ c validity shall, as a condition precedent to any such 
challenge, ﬁ rst notify the WADA of the challenge and the basis of the challange. The initial hearing body, appellete body 
or Court of Arbitration of Sports (CAS) on its own initiative may also inform the WADA of any such challenge. Within ten 
(10) days of WADA’s receipt of such notice and the case ﬁ le related to such challenge, WADA shall also have the right to 
intervene as a party or provide evidence in such proceeding, In cases before CAS, at WADA’s request, the CAS panel shall 
appoint an appropriate scientiﬁ c expert to assist the panel in its evaluation of the challenge.
 9. It is presumed that the WADA -accredited laboratories, and other laboratories approved by the World Anti-
Doping Agency, have conducted sample analysis and custodial procedures in accordance with the international standard for 
laboratories. The athlete or other person may rebut this presumption by establishing that a departure from the  international 
standard for laboratories occurred which could reasonably have caused the adverse analytical ﬁ nding. If the Athlete or 
other person rebuts the preceding presumption by showing that a departure from the International Standard for Laboratories 
occurred which could reasonably have caused the Adverse Analytical Finding, then the SLADA shall have the burden to 
establish that such departure did not cause the Adverse Analytical Finding.
 10. Departures from any other International Standard or other anti- doping rule or policy set out in the  Code 
or these Anti- Doping Rules shall not invalidate analytical results or other evidence of an anti- doping rule violation and 
shall not constitute a defense to an anti- doping rule violation.
 Provided, however, if the athlete or other person establishes that a departure from one of the speci ﬁ c International 
Statndard provisions listed below could reasonably have caused an anti- doping rule violation based on an Adverse 
Analytical ﬁ nding or whereabouts failure then SLADA shall have the burden to establish that such departure did not cause 
the Adverse Analytical Finding or the whereabouts failure-
 ( a) a departure from the International Standard for Testing and Investigations related to sample collection or 
                sample handing which could reasonably have caused an anti- doping rule violation based on an  adverse 
                     analytical ﬁ nding;
 ( b) a departure from the international standard for results management or international standard for testing and 
               investigations related to an adverse passport ﬁ nding which could reasonably have caused an anti-doping 
                     rule violation;
 ( c) a departure from the international standard for results management related to the requirement to provide notice 
            to the athlete of the B Sample opening which could reasonably have caused an anti-doping rule 
                   violation based on an  adverse analytical ﬁ nding;
 ( d) a departure from the international standard for results management related to athlete noti ﬁ cation which could 
                   reasonably have caused an anti- doping rule violation based on a whereabouts failure
 11. The facts established by a decision of a court or professional disciplinary tribunal of  competent jurisdiction 
which is not the subject of a pending appeal shall be irrebuttable evidence against the athlete or other person to whom 
the decision pertained of those facts unless the athlete or other person establishes that the decision violated principles of 
natural justice.
 12. The hearing panel in a hearing on an anti- doping rule violation may draw an inference adverse to the athlete 
or other person who is asserted to have committed an anti- doping rule violation based on the athlete's or other person's 
refusal, after a request made in a reasonable time in advance of the hearing to appear at the hearing (either in person or 
telephonically as directed by the hearing panel) and to answer questions from the hearing panel or the SLADA.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 6A
Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods
 13. Unless provided otherwise in the Prohibited list or a revision the Prohibited List and revisions shall go into 
effect under these Anti- Doping Rules three (3) months after such List and revision being published by the WADA without 
requiring any further action by the SLADA. Any athlete or other person shall be bound by the Prohibited List and any 
revision thereto. It shall be the responsibility of every athlete and every other person to familiarize themselves with the 
most up- to - date version of the Prohibited List and all revisions thereto.
 14. The prohibited list shall identify the prohibited substances and prohibited methods which are prohibited as 
doping at both in competition and out of competition. The WADA may expand the prohibited list for a particular sport. 
Prohibited substances and prohibited method may include in the prohibited list by general category or by speciﬁ c reference 
to a particular substance or method.
 15. For the purposes of the application of rule 43- 63, every prohibited substance shall be speci ﬁ ed substances 
except as identiﬁ ed on the prohibited list. No prohibited method shall be a speciﬁ ed method unless it is speciﬁ cally identiﬁ ed 
as a speciﬁ ed method on the prohibited list. For the purpose of the same rule, substance of abuse shall include prohibited 
substances which are speci ﬁ cally identi ﬁ ed as substances of abuses prohibited list.
 16. The determination of the WADA of the prohibited substances and prohibited methods that will be included 
in the Prohibited List, the classi ﬁ cation of substances into categories on  the Prohibited List, and the classi ﬁ cation of 
a  substance as prohibited at all times  or in- competition only, the classi ﬁ cation of a substance or method as a speci ﬁ ed 
substance, speci ﬁ ed method or substance of abuse is ﬁ nal and shall not be subjected to challenge by an Athlete or other 
person including but not limited to any challenge based on an argument that the substance or method was not a  masking 
agent or did not have the potential to enhance performance, represent a health risk or violate the spirit of sport. 
Therapeutic Use Exemptions ('' TUEs")
 17. The presence of a prohibited substance or its metabolites or markers or the use or attempted use, possession 
or administration or attempted administration of a prohibited substance or prohibited method shall not be considered an 
anti- doping rule violation if it is consistent with the provisions of a TUE granted in accordance with the International 
standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions.
 18. The "TUE" application process shall be as follows-:
 (1) Any Athlete who is not an Intenational Level Athlete shall apply to SLADA as soon as possible for a TUE  
where rule 13 and 16 of the International Standard for Therapeutic use Exceptions apply. The application shall be made 
in accordance with Article  6 of the International Standard for TUE exceptions as posted on SLADA website.
   
 (2) The SLADA shall establish a panel ( Therapeutic Use Exception Committee) (hereinafter referred to as 
"TUEC") to consider applications for the grant of TUEs.
 (3) The TUEC shall promptly evaluate and decide upon the application within twenty one (21) days of receipt of a 
complete application in accordance with the International standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions. Where the application 
is made in a reasonable time prior to an event, the TUEC shall use its best endeavors to issue its decision before the start 
of the event.
 (4) The TUEC decision shall be the ﬁ nal decision of SLADA and may appeal in accordance with rule 21. TUEC 
decision shall notify in writing to the athlete and to WADA and other  anti- doping organizations in accordance with the 
International standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions. It shall also be reported to Anti- Doping Administration and 
Management System (hereinafter referred to as the " ADAMS")

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 7A
Retroactive TUE Applications
 19. If SLADA choose to test an Athlete who is not an International - Level or a National Level Athlete, SLADA 
shall permit such Athlete to apply for a retroactive TUE for any prohibited substance or prohibited method that he or she 
use for the therapeutic reasons.
TUE Recognition
 20. A TUE granted by the SLADA shall be valid at national level in any country and does not need to be formally 
recognized by any other National Anti- Doping Organization. However, it is not valid if the athlete becomes an International 
level athlete or competes in an International event, unless it is recognized by the relvant International Federation or major 
event organization in accordance with the International Standards for Therapeutic Use Exemptions speci ﬁ ed as follows:-
 ( a) (i)  where the athlete already has a TUE granted by the SLADA for the substance or method in question, 
unless his or her TUE will be automatically recognized by the International Federation or Major event Organization the 
Athlete shall apply to his or her International Federation or to the Major event Organization to recognize that TUE. If 
that TUE meets the criteria set out in the International Standard for Therapetic Use Exemptions, then the International 
Federation or Major event organization shall recognize it for purposes of international- level Competition as well;
 (ii) If the International Federation or Major event Oraganization considers that the TUE granted by the SLADA 
does not meet those criteria and so refuses to recognize it, the International Federation shall notify the International- Level  
Athlete and the SLADA promptly, with reasons. The International- Level Athlete and the SLADA shall have twenty one 
(21) days from such noti ﬁ cation to refer the matter to the WADA for review;
 (iii) If the matter is referred to the WADA for review in accordance with rule 21, the TUE granted by the SLADA 
remains valid for national- level competition and out- of- competition testing (but is not valid for international- level 
Competition) pending the decision of the WADA;
 (iv) If the matter is not referred  to the WADA for review within the twenty one (21) days deadline SLADA shall 
determine whether the original TUE that it granted shall remain valid for national level competition and out- of- competition 
Testing. Provided, that athlete ceases to be an International Level athlete and does not participate in International level 
competition;
 (v) If the SLADA's decision is pending the TUE remains valid for national- level competition and out of competition 
testing but not valid for International- level competition;
 ( b) (i) If the athlete does not already have a TUE granted by the SLADA for the substance or method in question, 
the athlete shall apply directly to the International Federation for a TUE in accordance with the process set out in the 
International Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions;
 (ii) If the International Federation denies the athlete's application. it shall notify the Athlete with  reasons;
 (iii) If the International Federation grants the athlete's application, it shall notify the athlete and the SLADA;
 
 (iv) If the SLADA considers that the TUE  granted by the International Federation does not meet  the  criteria 
set out in the International standard for Therapeutic use Exemptions, it has twenty one (21) days from such noti ﬁ cation 
to refer the matter to WADA for review;
 (v) If the SLADA refers the matter to WADA for review, the TUE granted by the International Federation remains 
valid for international - level competition and out - of competition testing (but is not valid for national- level competition)  
pending the decision of the WADA;
 (vi) If the SLADA does not refer the matter to the WADA for review, the TUE granted by the International 
Federation becomes valid for national- level competition as well when the twenty one (21) day review deadline expires.
Expiration, Cancellation, Withdrawal or Reversal of a TUE

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 8A
 21.(1) A TUE granted pursuant to these Anti - Doping Rules-
  ( a) shall expire automatically at the end of any term for which it was granted, without the need for any 
                                 further notice  or other formality;
  ( b) may be cancelled if the athlete does not promptly comply with any reqirement or condition imposed  
                                 by the TUE Committee upon grant of the TUE;
  ( c) may be withdrawn by the TUEC if it is subsequently determined that the criteria for grant of a TUE 
                                 is not in fact met; or
 
  ( d) may be reversed on review by WADA or on appeal. 
 (2) In such event, the athlete shall not be subject to any consequences based on his use or possession or 
administration of the prohibited substance or prohibited method in question in accordance with the TUE prior to the 
effective date of expiry, cancellation, withdrawal or reversal of the TUE. The review pursuant to Article 5.1.1.1 of the 
international standard for results management of an adverse analytical ﬁ nding reported shortly after the TUE  expiry, 
witrhdrawal, or reversal, shall include consideration of whether such ﬁ nding is consistent with the use of the Prohibited 
Substance or prohibited method prior to that date, in which event no Anti- Doping Rule violation shall be asserted.
Reviews and Appeals of TUE Decisions
 22. (1) If the Sri Lanka Anti- Doping Agency denies an application for a  TUE the athlete may appeal to the 
SLADA appeal body in terms of rule 70(3).
 (2) The WADA shall review any decision by an International Federation not to recognize a TUE granted by the 
SLADA that is refferred to the WADA by the athlete or the SLADA. In addition, the WADA shall review any decision 
by an International federation to grant a TUE that is referred to the WADA by the  SLADA. The WADA may review any 
other TUE decisions at any time, whether upon request by those affected or on its own intiative. If the TUE decision being 
reviewed meets the criteria set out in the International Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions, the WADA does not  
interfere with it. If the TUE decision does not meet those criteria, the WADA shall reverse it.
 (3) Any TUE decision by an International Federation or by the SLADA where it has agreed to consider the 
application on behalf of an International Federation that is not reviewed by the WADA, or that is reviewed by the WADA 
but is not reversed  upon review, may be appealed by the athlete or the SLADA exclusively to CAS, in accordance with 
rules 69 to 79.
 (4) The athlete, the SLADA or the International Federation affected may appeal to CAS, against a decision by 
the WADA to reverse a TUE decision.
 (5) A failure to take action within a reasonable time on a properly submitted application for grant recognition of 
a TUE or for review of a TUE decision shall be considered a denial of the application thus triggering the applicable rights 
of review/ appeal.
Testing and Investigations
 23. (1) Testing and investigations may only be undertaken for anti- dopping purposes. Testing and investigations 
shall be conducted in con ﬁ rmity with the provisions of the International Standard for Testing and Investigations and the 
speciﬁ c protocols of the SLADA supplementing that international standard.
 (2) Testing shall undertake to obtain analytical evidence as to whether the athlete has violated rule 5(a) or rule 
5(b).
 (3) Subject to the limitations for event testing in rule 23(7) and (8) the SLADA shall have in competition and out 
of competition authority over all athletes speci ﬁ ed in rule 2.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 9A
 (4) SLADA may require any athlete over whom it has testing authority including any athlete serving a period in 
ineligibility to provide a sample at any time and at any place.
 (5) WADA shall have in- competition and out- competition testing authority as speci ﬁ ed in Article 20.7.10 of the 
code.
 (6) If an international federation or major event organization delegates or contracts any part of testing to SLADA 
directly or through a national federation, SLADA may collect additional samples or direct the laboratory to perform 
additional types of analysis at SLADA's expense. If  additional samples are collected or additional types of analysis are 
performed, the international federation or major event organization shall be noti ﬁ ed.
 
 (7) Except as otherwise provided only a single organization shall have authority to conduct testing at event venues 
during an event period. At International events held in Sri Lanka, the international organization which is the ruling body 
shall have authority to conduct testing. At national events held in Sri Lanka SLADA shall be the authority to conduct 
testing. At the request of the SLADA or the ruling body for an event, any testing conducted during the event period outside 
of the event venues shall be coordinated with the SLADA or with the ruling body of the event.
 (8) If an Anti- Doping Organization, which would otherwise have testing authority but is not responsible for 
initiating and directing testing at an Event, desires to conduct Testing of Athletes at the event venues during the Event 
Period, the Anti- Doping Organization shall ﬁ rst confer with the ruling body of the Event obtain permission to conduct 
and coordinate such testing. If the Anti- Doping Organization is not satis ﬁ ed with the response from the ruling body of 
the event, the Anti - Doping Organization may, ask WADA for permission to conduct such testing in accordance with 
procedures described in the International Standard for testing and Investigations, and to determine how to coordinate such 
Testing. WADA  shall not grant approval for such Testing before consulting with and informing the ruling body for the 
event. The decision of the WADA shall be ﬁ nal and not subject to appeal. Unless otherwise provided in the authorization 
to conduct Testing, such tests shall be considered Out- of- Competition tests. Results Management for any such test shall 
be the responsibility of the Anti- Doping Organization initiating the test unless provided otherwise in the rules of the ruling 
body of the Event.
Testing requirements
 24. (1) SLADA shall conduct a test distribution planning and testing as required by the International Standard 
for testing and Investigations
      (2) Where reasonably feasible, testing shall be coordinated through ADAMS in order to maximize the 
effectiveness of the combined testing effort and to avoid unnecessary repetitive testing.
Athlete Whereabouts information
 25. (1) SLADA shall established a registered testing pool of the athletes who are required to provide whereabouts 
information in the manner specifi ed in the International  Standard for Testing and  Investigations and who shall be  subject to 
consequences for rule 5(d)  violations as provided in rule 45(b). Th e SLADA shall coordinate with International  Federations  
to identify  such athletes and to collect  their  whereabouts information.
   (2) SLADA shall make available  a list which identifi  es the athletes included in its registered testing pool by name 
through ADAMS. Th e SLADA shall review and update as necessary its criteria for including the athletes  in its Registered 
Testing Pool.  and shall periodically  not less than quarterly revise the list of athletes in its registered  Testing pool  to ensure  
that listed athletes  continue to meet the relevant criteria. Athletes shall be notifi ed before they are included in a Registered 
Testing pool and  when they are removed from that pool. Th  e notifi  cation shall contain the information set out in the  
international standard for testing and investigations.
   (3) Where an Athlete  is included  in an international Re gistered  Testing Pool by their International Federation and 
in a national Registered Testing Pool by SLADA, SLADA and  the International Federation  shall agree between themselves  

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 10A
which of them  shall accept  that Athletes whereabouts fi llings; in no case an Athlete shall be required to make whereabouts 
fi lling to more than one of them.
   (4) In accordance with the International Standard for testin g and investigations each Athlete  in the Registered Testing 
Pool shall. 
    ( a) Advise SLADA  of his/her whereabouts on a quarterly basis; 
    ( b) Update that information as necessary so that it remains accurate and  complete at all times; and
    ( c) make himself or herself  available for Testing at such whereabouts.
   (5) For purposes of rule 5(d) an Athlete's failure to comply with the requirements of the international standard for 
testing and investigations shall be deemed as a fi  lling failure of a missed test, as defi  nd in Annex  B of the International 
Standard for Results Management, where the conditions set forth in Annex B are met.
   (6) An Athlete in SLADA's Registered Testing Pool shall continue  to be subject to the obligation to comply with the 
whereabouts requirements set in the International Standard  for Testing  and Investigations unless and until. 
 
     ( a) the Athlete gives written notice to SLADA  that he or she  has retired or
  ( b) SLADA has informed  him or her that he or she  no longer satisfi es the criteria for inclusion in SLADA's 
        Registered Testing Pool.
   (7) Whereabout information provided by an Athlete whi le in the Registered Testing pool will not accessible through  
ADAMS to W ADA and  to other Anti  -Doping Organizations having Authority  to test that Athlete as provided  in     rule 
22 (3) - (6). whereabouts  information shall be maintained in strict confi  dence at all times; It shall be used exclusively for 
purposes of planning, coordinating or conducting Doping Control, providing  information relevant  to the Athlete Biologi-
cal Passport or other analytical results, to support an investigation  into a potential anti-doping rule violation, of to support 
proceedings alleging an anti-doping rule violation; and shall be destroyed  aft er it is no longer relevant for these purposes in  
accordance with the International Standard for the Protection of Privacy and Personal Information.
   (8) In accordance with the  International  Standard for Testing  and Investigations, SLADA shall establish a testing 
Pool, which includes Athletes who are subject to less Stringent   whereabouts requirements than Athletes  included in  
SLADA's Registered Testing Pool.
   (9) SLADA shall  notify Athletes before they are included in the T esting  Pool and  when they are  removed from testing 
pool. Such notifi cation shall include the whereabouts requirements and the consequences that apply in case of  non compliance, at 
specifi ed  in rule 25 of 2021 Sri Lanka  Anti - Doping Rules.
   (10) Athletes  included in the testing pool shall  provide SLADA  with the following whereabouts information that  
they may be located and subjected to  testing :-
  ( a) An overnight address;
  ( b) Competition. /Event schedule; and 
  
  ( c) Regular training activities.
   (11)  An Athlete's failure to provide  whereabouts  information on or before  the date required by  SLADA  or the 
Athlete's  failure to provide accurate whereabouts information shall result in  SLADA elevating an Athlete to SLADA's  
Registered Testing Pool.
   (12)  SLADA may, in accordance with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations collect  whereabouts 
information from Athletes who are not included within a Registered Testing Pool If it chooses to do so , an Athlete's  failure 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 11A
to provide requested whereabouts information on or before the date required by SLADA or the Athlete's failure to provide  
accurate wheareabouts information shall result in SLADA elevating the Athlete to SLADA's Registered Testing Pool, 
Retired Athletes Returning  to Competition
   26. (1) If an international- Level Athlete  of National Level Athlete in SLADA's Registered Testing Pool retires  and 
then  intends  to return to active participation in sport, such Athlete shall not compete  in International Events or National 
Events until the  Athlete has made himself or herself available  for Testing  by giving six - months prior written notice to their 
International  Federation and SLADA.
   (2) Th  e W ADA, in consultation with SLADA and the Athlete's International Federation, may grant an exemption to 
the Six month written notice rule where  the strict application  of that rule would be  unfair to the Athlete. Th is decision  may 
be appealed under rule  69 to rule 83.
   (3) Any competitive results obtained  in violation  of rule 26(1)  shall be disqualifi  ed unless the Athlete can establish  
that he or she could not have reasonably known that this was an International event or a National Event.  
   (4) If an Athlete retires from sport while subject to a peri od of ineligibility, the Athlete must notify the Anti-doping 
Organization that imposed the period  of ineligibility in writing of such retirement.  if the Athlete then wishes to return to  
active competition in sport, the Athlete shall not compete in international events  or National events untill the Athlete has 
made himself or herself available for Testing by giving  six - months prior written notice (or notice equivalent to the period 
of ineligibility remaining as of the date the athlete retired, if that  period was longer than six (6) months to SLADA and to 
their International Federation.
Independent Observer Program
   27. SLADA and any organizing committees for National Events in Sri Lanka, shall authorize and facilitate the                      
Independent Observer Program at such events. 
Analysis of samples
   28 (1) Samples shall be analyzed  in accordance with the following principles.
  ( a) for purposes of directly establishing an Adverse Analytical Finding under rule 5 Samples shall be analyzed only 
                  in W ADA-accredited laboratories or laboratories otherwise approved by W ADA. Th e choice of the W ADA-ac
                          credited  or WADA-approved laboratory  used for the sample analysis shall be determined exclusively by SLADA.
  ( b) facts related to anti-doping rule violations may be established by any reliable means. Th is would include, for sample, 
        reliable laboratory  or other forensic, testing conducted outside of W ADA accredited or approved  
                      laboratories. 
   (2) Sample and related analytical data or Doping Control information shall be analyzed to detect Prohibited Substances  
and Prohibited Methods identifi ed on the Prohibited List and  other substances as may be directed by W ADA pursuant to the 
Monitoring  program  described in Article 4.5  of the  codes or to assist SLADA  in profi ling  relevant parameters in an Athlete 
's urine, blood or other matrix, including  for DNA  or genomic profi ling, or for any other  legitimate  anti-doping purpose.
   (3) Samples, related analytical data and Doping Control information  may be used  for anti- doping research purposes, 
although no sample  may be used for research  without the Athlete's  written consent. Samples and related analytical data 
or Doping Control information used for research purposes shall fi rst be processed in such a manner  as to prevent Samples  
and related analytical data or Doping Control  information  being traced back to particular Athlete. Any research involving 
samples  and related  analytical  data or Doping Control information shall adhere to the principles set out in Article  19 of 
the code.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 12A
   (4) Th  e SLADA shall ask laboratories  to analyze samples in accordance with article  6.4 of the code, in comformity  
with the international  Standard for Laboratories  and Article 4.7 of the International Standard for Testing and 
Investigations. 
   (5) Laboratories at their own initiative and expense may analyze Samples for  Prohibited Substances or Prohibited  
Methods not included on the standard sample analysis menu or as requested by  SLADA. Results from any such analysis  shall 
be reported  to SLADA and have the same validity and consequences as any other analytical  result.
   (6) Th  ere shall be no limitation on the authority of a laboratory to conduct repeat or additional  analysis on a sample  
prior to the time SLADA notifi es an Athlete that the sample is the basis for  an  rule 5 anti - doping rule violation charge. If 
aft er such notifi cation SLADA intends to conduct additional analysis on that sample. It may do so with the consent of the 
Athlete or approval from a hearing body.   
 (7) Where a laboratory reported that a Sample is negative, or the Sample has not otherwise resulted in an 
anti-doping rule violation charge, it may be stored and subjected to futher analyses for the purpose of rule 28 (2) at any time 
exclusively at the direction of either the Anti-Doping Organization that initiated and directed Sample collection or WADA. 
Any other Anti-Doping Organization with authority to test the Athelete who intends to conduct futher analysis on a stored 
Sample may do so with the permission of the Anti-Doping Organization that initiated and directed Sample collection or 
WADA, and shall be responsible for any follow-up Results Management. Any sample storage or futher analysis initiated by 
WADA or another Anti-Doping Organization shall be at WADA’s or that organization’s expense. Further analysis of samples 
shall conform to the requirements of the International Standard for Laboratories.
 (8) Where WADA, an anti-doping Organization with results Management authority, and/or a WADA-accredited 
laboratory (with approval from WADA or the anti-doping Organization with Results Management authority) intends to split 
an A or B sample for the purpose of using the ﬁ rst part of the split sample for an A sample analysis and the second part of the 
split sample for conﬁ rmation, then the procedures set forth in the International Standard for Laboratories shall be followed.
 (9) WADA may, in its sole discretion at any time, with or without prior notice, take physical possession of any 
Sample and related analytical data or information in the possession of a laboratory or anti-doping Organization. Upon 
request by WADA, the laboratory or Anti-Doping Organization in possession of the sample or data shall immediately grant 
access to and enable WADA to take physical possession of the sample or data. If WADA has not provided prior notice to 
the laboratory or anti-doping Organization before taking possession of a sample or data, it shall provide such notice to the 
laboratory and each Anti-Doping Organization whose samples or data have been taken by WADA within a reasonable time 
after taking possession. After analysis and any investigation of a seized sample or data, WADA may direct another Anti-
Doping Organization with authority to test the Athlete to assume Results Management responsibility for the sample or data 
if a potential anti-doping rule violation is discovered. 
Results management: Responsibility, initial review, notice and provincial suspensions  
 29. (1) Except as otherwise provided in rule 28(7), 28(9) and in Article 7.1 of the Code, Results Management shall 
be the responsible of, and shall be governed by, the procedural rules of the Anti-Doping Organization that initiated and 
directed sample collection.
      (2) In circumstances where the rules of a SLADA do not give the National Anti-Doping Organization authority 
over an Athlete of other Person who is not a national, resident, license holder, or member of a sport organization of that 
country, or the National Anti-Doping Organization declines to exercise such authority, Results Management shall be 
conducted by the applicable International Federation or by a third party with authority over the Athlete or other Person as 
directed by the rules of the applicable International Federation.
   (3) Results Management in relation to a potential whereabouts failure ( a ﬁ ling failure or a missed test) shall be 
administered by the International Federation or SLADA with whom the Athlete in question ﬁ les whereabouts information, 
as provided in the International Standard for Results Management. If SLADA determines a ﬁ ling failure or a missed test, 
it shall submit that information to WADA through ADAMS, where it will be made available to other relevant Anti-Doping 
Organizations. 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 13A
   (4) Other circumstances in which SLADA shall take responsibility for conducting Results Management in respect 
of anti-doping rule violations involving Athletes and other Persons under its authority shall be determined by reference to 
and in accordance with Article 7 of the Code.
   (5) WADA may direct SLADA to conduct Results Management in particular circumstances. If SLADA refuses 
to conduct Results Management within a reasonable deadline set by WADA, such refusal shall be considered an act of 
non- compliance, and WADA may direct another Anti-Doping Organozation with authority over the Athlete or other person, 
that is willing to do so, to take result Management responsibility in place of SLADA or, if there is no such Anti-Doping 
Organozation, any other Anti-Doping Organization that is willing to do so. In such case, SLADA shall reimburse the costs 
and attorney’s fees of conduction Results Management to the other Anti-Doping Organization designated by WADA, and a 
failure to reimburse costs and attorney’s fees shall be considered an act of noncompliance.
Review and Notiﬁ cation Regarding Potential Anti-Doping Rule Violations
 30. SLADA shall carry out the review and noti ﬁ cation with respect to any potential anti-doping rule violation in 
accordance with the International Standard for Results Management.
Identiﬁ cation of Prior Anti-Doping Rule Violations
 31. Before giving an Athlete or other Person notice of a potential anti-doping rule violation SLADA shall refer 
such notice to ADAMS and contact WADA and other relevant Anti-Doping Organizations to determine whether any prior 
Anti-Doping rule violation exists.
Provisional Suspensions
 32. (1) If SLADA receives an Adverse Analytical Finding or an Adverse Passport Finding (upon completion of 
the Adverse Passport Finding review process) for a Prohobited Substance or a Prohibited Method that is not a Speci ﬁ ed 
Substance or a Speciﬁ ed Method, It shall impose a Provisional Suspension on the Athlete promptly upon or after the review 
and notiﬁ cation required by rule 29.
    (2) A mandatory Provisional Suspension may be eliminated if:-
  (i) the Athlete demonstrates to the SLADA’s Hearing Panel that the violation is likely to have involved a 
Contaminated Product, or
  (ii) the violation involves a Substance of Abuse and the Athlete establishes entitlement to a reduced period 
of Ineligibility under rule 45(3) (a).
   (3) The SLADA’s Hearing Panel’s decision not to eliminate a mandatory Provisional Suspension on account of 
the Athlete’s assertion regarding a Contaminated Product shall not be appealable.
   (4) SLADA may impose a Provisional Suspension for anti-doping rule violations not covered by rule 32(1) prior 
to the analysis of the Athlete’s B sample or ﬁ nal hearing as described in rule 38.
   (5) An optional provisional Suspension may be lifted at the discretion of SLADA at any time prior to the 
SLADA’s Hearing Panel’s decision under rule 38-42, unless provided otherwise in the International Standard for Results 
Management.
Opportunity for Hearing or Appeal  
 33. (1) Notwithstanding rule 32(1)-32(5) a Provisional Suspension may not be imposed unless the Athlete or other 
person is given:-

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 14A
  ( a) an opportunity for a Provisional Hearing, either before or on timely basis after the imposition of the 
                                   Provisional Suspension; or
  ( b) an opportunity for an expedited hearing in accordance with rule 38 on a timely basis after the imposition 
                                  of the Provisional Suspension.
 (2) The imposition of a Provisional Suspension, or the decision not to impose a Provisional Suspension, may be 
appealed in an expedited process in accordance with rule 69.
V oluntary Acceptance of Provisional Suspension
 34. (1) Athletes on their own initiative may voluntarily accept a Provisional Suspension if done so prior to the later 
of:-
  (i) the expiration of ten (10) days from the report of the B sample ( or waiver of the B sample) or ten (10) 
days from the notice of any other anti-doping rule violation, or
  (ii) the date on which the Athlete ﬁ rst competes after such report or  notice.
    (2) Other persons on their own initiative may voluntarily accept a provincial suspension if done so within ten 
(10) days from the notice of the anti-doping rule violation.
    (3) Upon such voluntary acceptance, the Provisional Suspension shall have the full effect and be treated in the 
same manner as if the Provisional Suspension had been imposed under rule 32(1) and 32(2).
 provided, however, any time after voluntarily accepting a Provisional Suspension, the Athlete or other Person may 
withdrow such acceptance, in which event the Athlete or other Person shall not receive any credit for time previously served 
during the Provisional Suspenstion.
    (4) If a Provisional Suspension is imposed based on an a sample Adverse Analytical Finding and a subsequent 
B Sample analysis (if requested by the Athlete or SLADA) does not con ﬁ rm the A sample analysis, then the Athlete shall 
not be subject to any further Provisional Suspension on account of a violation of rule 5 in circumstances where the Athlete 
or the Athlete’s team has been removed from an Event based on a violation of rule 5 and the subsequent B sample analysis 
does not conﬁ rm the A sample ﬁ nding, then, if it is still possible for the Athlete or team to be reinserted, without otherwise 
affecting the Event, the Athlete or team may continun to take part in the Event.
Results Management Decisions
 35. Results Management decisions or adjudications by SLADA shall not purport to be limited to a particular 
geaographic area or sport and shall address and determine without limitation the following issues:-
 (a) the anti- doping rule violation involve does not a Speciﬁ ed Substance or a Speciﬁ ed Method unless the Athlete 
or other Person can establish that the anti- doping rule violation was hot intentional. or;
 (i) Whether as anti-doping rule violation was committed or a Provisional Suspension should be imposed, the 
factual basis for such determination, and the speciﬁ c Articles that have been violated, and
 (ii) All Consequences ﬂ owing from the anti-doping rule violation(s), including applicable Disquali ﬁ cations 
under rule 43 and 55 any forfeiture of medals or prizes, any period of Ineligibility (and the date it begins to 
run) and any Financial Consequences.
Notiﬁ cation of Results Management Decisions
   36. SLADA shall notify Athletes, other Persons, Signatories and WADA of Results Management decisions as 
provided in rule 84 and in the International Standard for Results Management.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 15A
Retirement from Sport
   37. If an Athlete or other Person retires while the SLADA’s is conducting Results Management process the SLADA 
retains authority to complete its Results management process. If an Athlete or other Person retires before any Results 
Management process has begun, and SLADA would have had Results Management authority over the Athete or other 
Person at the time the Athlete or other Person committed an anti-doping rule violation, the SLADA has authority to conduct 
Results Management in respect of that anti-doping rule violation.
Results Management : Right to a Fair Hearing and Notice of Hearing Decision
   38. (1) For any Person who is asserted to have committed an anti-doping rule violation, SLADA shall provide a fair 
hearing within a reasonable time by a fair, impartial and Operationally Independent hearing panel in compliance with the 
Code and the International Standard for Results Management.
          (2) SLADA shall establish a Hearing Panel which has jurisdiction to hear and determine whether an Athlete or 
other Person, subject to these Anti-Doping Rules, has committed an anti-doping rule violation and, if applicable, to impose 
relevant Consequences.
           (3) SLADA shall ensure that the SLADA’s Hearing Panel is free of con ﬂ ict of interest and that its composition, 
term of ofﬁ ce, professional experience, Operational Independence and adequate ﬁ nancing comply with the requirements of 
the International Standard for Results Managment.
          (4) Board members, staff members, commission members, consultants and of ﬁ cials of SLADA or its bodies, 
as well as any Person involved in the investigation and pre-adjudication of the matter, cannot be appointed as members and 
/ or clerks (to the extent that such clerk is involved in the deliberation process and/or drafting of any decision) of SLADA 
Hearing Panel, No member shall have previously considered any TUE application, Results Management decision. or appeals 
in the same given case.
          (5) The SLADA’s Hearing Panel shall consist of a independent Chair and two (2) other independent members.
       (6) Each member shall be appointed by taking into consideration their requisite anti-doping experience 
including their legal, sports, medical and/or scientiﬁ c expertise. Each member shall be appointed for a once renewable term 
of three (3) years.
          (7) SLADA’s Hearing Panel shall be in a position to conduct the hearing and decision making process without 
interference from SLADA or any third party.
Hearing Process
   39. (1) When SLADA sends a notice to an Athlete or other Person notifying them of a potential anti-doping rule 
violation, and the Athlete or other Person does not waive a hearing in accordance with rule 41(1) or rule 41(2), then the case 
shall be referred to the SLADA’s Hearing Panel for hearing and adjudication, which shall be conducted in accordance with 
the principles described in Articles 8 and 9 of the International Standard for Results Management.
   (2) The Chair shall appoint three (3) members (which may include the Chair) to hear that case. One (1) panel 
member shall be a qualiﬁ ed lawyer, with no less than three (3) years of relevant legal experience, and one (1) panel member 
shall be a qualiﬁ ed medical practitioner, with no less than three (3) years of relevant medical experience.
   (3) Upon appointment by the Chair as a member of SLADA’s Hearing Panel, each member must also sign a 
declaration that there are no facts or circumstances known to him or her which might call into question their impartiality in 
the eyes of any of the parties, other than those circumstances disclosed in the declaration.
   (4) Hearings held in connection with Events in respect to Athletes and other Person who are subject to these Anti-
Doping Rules may be conducted by an expedited process where permitted by the SLADA’s Hearing Panel.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 16A
   (5) The WADA, the International Federation, and the National Federation of the Athlete or other Person may attend 
the hearing as observers. In any event, SLADA shall keep them fully apprised as to the status of pending cases and the result 
of all hearings.
Notice of Decisions
   40. (1) At the end of the hearing, or promptly thereafter, the SLADA’s Hearing Panel shall issue a written decision 
that conforms with Article 9 of the International Standard for Results Management and which includes the full reasons for 
the decision, the period of Ineligibility imposed, the Disqualiﬁ cation of results under rule 55 and, if applicable, a justiﬁ cation 
for why the greatest potential Consequences were not imposed.
   (2) SLADA shall noti ﬁ y that decision to the Athlete or other Person and to other Anti-Doping Organizations with a 
right to appeal under rule 74, and shall promptly report it into ADAMS. The decision may be appealed as provided in rule 69.
Waiver of Hearing
   41. (1) Athlete or other Person against whom as anti-doping rule violation is asserted may waive a hearing expressly 
and agree with the Consequences proposed by SLADA.
         (2) If the Athlete or other Person against whom an anti-doping rule violation is asserted  fails to dispute that 
assertion within ﬁ fteen (15) days or the deadline otherwise speciﬁ ed in the notice sent by the SLADA asserting the violation, 
then they shall be deemed to have waived a hearing, to have admitted the violation, and to have accepted the proposed 
Consequences.
          (3) In cases where rule 40(1) or 40(2) applies, a hearing before SLADA’s Hearing Panel shall not be required. 
Instead SLADA shall promptly issue a written decision that conforms with Article 9 of the International Standaed for Results 
Management and which includes the full reasons for the decision, the period of Ineligibility imposed, the Disquali ﬁ cation 
of results under rule 55 and, if applicable, a justiﬁ cation for why the greatest potential Consequences were not imposed.
          (4) SLADA shall notify that decision to the Athlete or other Person and to other Anti-Doping Organizations with 
a right to appeal under rule 74, and shall promptly report it into ADAMS, SLADA shall Publicly Disclose that decision in 
accordance with rule 86(2).
Single Hearing Before CAS
   42. Anti-doping rule violations asserted against International-Level Athletes, National Level Athletes or other 
Persons may, be heard in a single hearing directly at CAS with the consent of the Athlete, other Person or SLADA (where it 
has Results Management responsibility in accordance with rule 29-36 and WADA.)
Automatic disqualiﬁ cations of individual results
   43. An anti-doping rule violation in Individual Sports in connection with an In-Competition test automatically leads 
to Disqualiﬁ cation of the result obtained in that Competition with all resulting Consequences, including forfeiture of any 
medals, points and prizes.
Sanctions on individuals
Disqualiﬁ cation of Results in the Event during which an Anti-Doping Rule Violation Occurs
   44. (1) An anti-doing rule violation occurring during or in connection with an Event may, upon the decision of the 
ruling body of the Event, lead to Disquali ﬁ cation of all of the Athlete’s individual results obtained in that Event with all 
Consequences, including forfeiture of all medals, points and prizes, except as provided in rule 44(2).

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 17A
       (2) If the Athlete establishes that he or she bears No Fault or Negligence for the violation, the Athlete’s 
individual results in the other Competitions shall not be disqualiﬁ ed, unless the Athlete’s results in Competitions other than 
the Competition in which the anti-doping rule violation Occurred were likely to have been affected by the Athlete’s anti-
doping  rule violation.
Ineligibility for Presence, Use or Attempted Use or Possession of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method
   45 (1) The period of Ineligibility, subject to rule 45(3), shall be four (4) years where:
 ( a) the anti-doping rule violation does not involve a Speci ﬁ ed Substance or a Speciﬁ ed Method, unless the 
Athlete or other Person can establish that the anti-doping rule violation was not intentional; or
                         ( b) the anti-doping rule violation involves a Speci ﬁ ed Substance or a Speci ﬁ ed Method and SLADA can 
establish that the anti-doping rule violation was intentional.
      (2) If rule 45(1) does not apply, subject to rule 45(3) (a), the period of Ineligibility shall be two (2) years.
      (3) Notwithstanding any other provision in rule 44, where the anti- doping rule violation involves a Substance 
of Abuse if:-
 ( a) the Athlete can establish that any ingeston or Use occurred Out of- Competition and was unrelated to sport 
performance, then the period of Ineligibility shall be three (3) months Ineligibility. The Period of Ineligibility calculated 
under this rule 45(3)(a) may be reduced to one (1) month if the Athelete or other Person satisfactorily completes a Substance 
of Abuse treatment program approved by SLADA. The period of Ingeligibility established in this rule 45 (3) (a) shall not 
subject to any reduction based on any provision in rule 48.
 ( b) the ingestion, use or Possession occurred In-Competition, and the Athlete can establish that the context of the 
ingestion, Use or Possession was unrelated to sport performance, then the ingestion, Use or Possession shall not be consid-
ered intentional for purposes of rule 45(1) and shall not provide a basis for a ﬁ nding of Aggravating Circumstances under 
RULE 47.
   
Ineligibility for Other Anti-Doping Rule Violations
 46. Unless rule 49 or rule 51 are applicable the period of Ineligibility for anti-doping rule violations expect as provided 
in rule 45 shall be as follows:-
 ( a) (i) for violations of rule 5(c) or 5(e) the period of Ineligibility shall be four (4) years except in the case of failing 
                        to submit to Sample collection, if the Athlete can establish that the commission of the anti- doping rule violation 
                    was not intentional, the period of Ineligibility shall be two (2) years;
  (ii) in all other cases, if the Athlete or other Person can establish exceptional circumstances that justify a reduction 
of the period of Ineligibility, the period of Ineligibility shall be in a range from two (2) years to four (4) years depending on 
the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault; or
 (iii) in case involving a Protected Person or Recreational Athlete the period of ineligibility shall be in a range be-
tween a maximum of two (2) years and at minimum a reprimand and no period of ineligibility, depending on the Protected 
Person of Recreational Athlete’s degree of fault.
 ( b) For violations of rule 5(d) the period of Ineligibility shall be two (2) years, subject to reduction to a minimum 
                  of one (1) year, depending on the Athlete’s degree of Fault. The ﬂ exibility between two (2) years and one (1) 
                        year of Ineligibility in this Article shall not be available to Athletes where a pattern of last- minutes whereabouts 
              changes or other conduct raises a serious suspicion that the Athlete was trying to avoid being available for 
                    Testing.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 18A
 ( c) For violations of rule 5(g) or 5(h) the period of Ineligibility shall be a minimum of four (4) years up to lifetime 
                 Ineligibility, depending on the seriousness of the violation. Any violation under rule 5(g) or 5(h) involving a 
              Protected Person shall be considered a particularly serious violation and, if committed by Athlete Support 
         Personnel for violations other than for Speci ﬁ ed Substances, shall result in lifetime Ineligibility for 
                    Athlete Support Personnel. In addition, signi ﬁ cant violations of rule 5(g) or 5(h) which may also violate non-  
            sporting laws and regulations shall be reported to the competent administrative, professional or judicial 
                     authorities.
 ( d) For violations of rule 5(i) the period of Ineligibility imposed shall be a minimum of two (2) years, up to lifetime 
                    Ineligibility, depending on the seriousness of the violation.
 ( e) For violations of rule 5(j) the period of Ineligibility shall be two (2) years, subject to reduction down to a 
                   minimum of one (1) year, depending on the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault and other circumstances 
                    of the case.
 ( f) For violations of rule 5(k) the period of Ineligibility shall be a minimum of two (2) years, up to lifetime 
                    Ineligibility, depending on the seriousness of the violation by the Athlete or other Person.
Aggravating Circumstances which may Increase the Period Ineligibility
 47. If SLADA establishes in an individual case involving an anti- doping rule violation other than violations under 
rule 5(g) (Traf ﬁ cking or Attempted Traf ﬁ cking), 5(h) (Administration or Attempted Administration), 5(i) (Complicity or 
Attempted Complicity) or 5(k) (Acts by an Athlete or Other Person to Discourage of Retaliate Against Reporting) that 
Aggravating Circumstances are present which justify the imposition of a period of Ineligibility greater than the standard 
sanction, then the period of Ineligibility otherwise applicable shall be increased by an additional period of Ineligibility of up 
to two (2) years depending on the seriousness of the violation and the nature of the Aggravating Circumstances, unless the 
Athlete or other Person can establish that he or she did not knowingly commit the anti- doping rule violation.
Elimination of the Period of Ineligibility where there is No Fault or Negligence   
  
 48. If an Athlete or other Person establishes in an individual case that he or she bears No Fault or Negligence, then 
the otherwise applicable the period of Ineligibility shall be eliminated.
Reduction of the Period of Ineligibility based on No Signiﬁ cant Fault or Negligence
 49. (1) Where the anti-doping rule violation involves a Speci ﬁ ed Substance (other than a Substance of Abuse) 
or Speciﬁ ed Method, and the Athlete or other Person can establish No Signi ﬁ cant Fault or Negligence, then the period 
of Ineligibility shall be, at a minimum, a reprimand and no period of Ineligibility, and at a maximum, two (2) years of 
Ineligibility, depending on the Athlete’s or other Person’s degree of Fault.
       (2) In cases where the Athlete or other Person can establish both No Signi ﬁ cant Fault or Negligence and that 
the detected Prohibited Substance (other than a Substance of Abuse) came from a Contaminated Product, then the period of 
Ineligibility shall be, at a minimum, a reprimand and no period of Ineligibility, and at a maximum, two (2) years Ineligibility, 
depending on the Athlete or  other Person’s degree of Fault.
  (3) Where the anti- doping rule violation not involving a Substance of Abuse is committed by a Protected Person 
or Recreational Athlete, and the Protected Person or Recreational Athlete can establish No Signiﬁ cant Fault or Negligence, 
then the period of Ineligibility shall be, at a minimum, a reprimand and no period of ineligibility, and at a maximum, two (2) 
years Ineligibility depending on the Protected Person or Recreational Athlete’s degree of Fault.
 50. If an Athlete or other Person establishes in an individual case where rule 49 is not applicable, that he or she bears 
No Signiﬁ cant Fault or Negligence, then subject to further reduction or elimination as provided in rule 51, the otherwise 
applicable period of Ineligibility may be reduced based on the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault, but the reduced 
period of Ineligibility may not be less than one-half of the period of Ineligibility otherwise applicable. If the otherwise 
applicable period of Ineligibility is a lifetime, the reduced period under this Article may be no less than eight (8) years.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 19A
Elimination, Reduction, or Suspension of Period of Ineligibility or Other Consequences for Reasons Other than Fault
 51. (1) The SLADA may, prior to an appellate decision under rule 69 or the expiration of the time to appeal, suspend 
a part of the Consequences (other than Disquali ﬁ cation and mandatory Public Disclosure) imposed in an individual case 
where the Athlete or other Person has provided Substantial Assistance to an Anti- Doping Organization, criminal authority 
or professional disciplinary body which results in:-
  ( a) the Anti-Doping Organization discoverring or bringing forward an anti-doping rule violation by another 
                        Person;
  ( b) a criminal or disciplinary body discovering or bringing forward a criminal offense of the breach of professional 
            rule committed by another Person and the information provided by the Person providing Substantial 
              Assistance is made available to SLADA or other Anti-Doping Organization with Results Management 
                        responsibility;
  ( c) WADA initiating a proceeding against a Signatory, WADA- accredited laboratory, or Athlete passport 
                   management unit (as de ﬁ ned in the International Standard for Laboratories) for non-compliance with the 
                         Code, International Standard of Technical Document; or
     ( d) (i) with the approval by WADA, which results in a criminal or disciplinary body bringing forward a criminal 
               offense or the breach of professional or sport rules arising out of a sport integrity violation other than 
                 doping. After an appellate decision under rule 69 or the expiration of time to appeal, SLADA may only 
                   suspend a part of the otherwise applicable Consequences with the approval of WADA and the applicable 
                                          International Federation. The extent to which the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility may be suspended 
                        shall be based on the seriousness of the anti-doping rule violation committed by the Athlete or other P erson 
                     and the signi ﬁ cance of the Substantial Assistance provided by the Athelete or other Person to the effort to 
                    eliminate doping in sport, non-compliance with the Code and/or sport integrity violations. No more than 
              three-quarters of the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility may be suspended. It the otherwise 
                        applicable period & ineligibility is a lifetime, the non-suspended period under this Article must be no  less 
                      than eight (8) years. For purposes of this paragraph, the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility sh all 
                           not include any period of Ineligbility that could be added under rule 53(6)(b) of these Anti-Doping Rules.
 (ii) If so requested by an Athlete or other Person who seeks to provide Substantial Assistance, SLADA shall allow the 
                    Athlete or other Person to provide the information to it subject to a Without Prejudice Agreement.
 (iii) If the Athlete or other Person fails to continue to cooperate and to provide the complete and credible Substantial 
Assistance upon which a suspension of Consequences was based, SLADA shall reinstate the original Consequences. If 
SLADA decides to reinstate suspended Consequences or decides not to reinstate suspended Consequences that decision may 
be appealed by any Person entitled to appeal under rule 69.
 (2) To further encourdge Athletes and other Persons to provide Substantial Assistance to Anti-Doping Organizations, 
at the request of SLADA or at the request of the Athlete or other Person who has, or has been asserted to have, committed 
an anti-doping rule violation, or other violation of the Code, the WADA may agree at any stage of the Results Management 
process, including after an appellate decision under rule 68 to what it considers to be an appropriate suspension of the 
otherwise-applicable period of Ineligibility and other Consequences. In exceptional circumstances, WADA may agree to 
suspensions of the period of Ineligibility and other Consequences for Substantial Assistance greater than those otherwise 
provided in this Article, or even no period of Ineligibility, no mandatory Public Disclosure and/or no return of prize money 
or payment of ﬁ nes or costs. WADA’s approval shall be subject to reinstatement of Consequences, as otherwise provided in 
this Article. Notwithstanding rule 68 WADA’s decisions in the context of this rule 51 (2) may not be appealed.
 (3) If SLADA suspends any part of an otherwise applicable sanction because of Substantial Assistance, then notice 
providing jistiﬁ cation for the decision shall be provided to the other Anti-Doping Organizations with a right to appeal under 
rule 70 as provided in rule 84 In unique circumstances where WADA determines that it would be in the best interest of 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 20A
anti-doping, WADA may authorize SLADA to enter into appropriate con ﬁ dentiality agreements Limiting or delaying the 
disclosure of the Substantial Assistance agreement or the nature of Substantial Assistance being provided.
 (4) Where an Athlete or other Person voluntarily admits the commission of an anti-doping rule violation before 
having received notice of a Sample collection which could establish an anti-doping rule violation and that admission is the 
only reliable evidence of the violation at the time of admission, then the period of Ineligibility may be reduced, but not below 
one-half of the period of Ineligibility otherwise applicable.
 (5) Where an Athlete or other Person establishes entitlement to reduction in sanction under more than one provision 
of rule 48,49 or 51 before applying any reduction or suspension of rule 51 the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility 
shall be determined in accordance with rule 45,47,48 and 49. If the Athlete or other Person establishes entitlement to a 
reduction or suspension of the period of Ineligibility  under rule 51 then the period of Ineligibility may be reduced or 
suspended, but not below one-fourth of the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility.
Results Management Agreements
 52. (1) Where an Athlete or other Person, after being noti ﬁ ed by SLADA of a potential anti-doping rule violation 
that carries an asserted period of Ineligibility of four  (4) or more years (including any period of Ineligibility asserted under 
rule 46, admits the violation and accepts the asserted period of Ineligibility no later than twenty (20) days after receiving 
notice of an anti-doping rule violation charge, the Athlete or other Person may receive a one-year reduction in the period of 
Ineligibility asserted by SLADA.
 (2) Where the Athlete or other Person receives the one-year reduction in the asserted period of Ineligibility under 
rule 52, no further reduction in the asserted period of Ineligibility shall be allowed under any other Article.
 (3) Where the Athlete or other Person admits an anti-doping rule violation after being confronted with the 
anti-doping rule violation by SLADA and agrees to Consequences acceptable to SLADA and WADA, at their sole discretion, 
then:-
 (a) the Athlete or other Person may receive a reduction in the period of Ineligibility based on an assessment by 
                  SLADA and WADA of the application of rule 44 though rule 51 to the asserted anti-doping rule violation, the 
                      seriousness of the violation, the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault and how promptly the Athlete or other 
                    Person admitted the violation; and
 (b) the period of Ineligibility may start as early as the date of Sample collection or the date on which another anti-
                      doping rule violation last occurred. In each case, however, where this rule is applied, the Athlete or other Person 
                    shall serve at least one-half of the agreed upon period of Ineligibility going forward from the earlier of the date 
            the Athlete or other Person accepted the imposition of a sanction or a Provisional Suspension which was 
                      subsequently respected by the Athlete or other Person. The decision by WADA and SLADA to enter or not enter 
              into a case resolution agreement, and the amount of the reduction to, and the starting date of the period of 
                  Ineligibility, are not matters for determination or review by a hearing body and are not subject to appeal un der 
                    rule 68.
 (4) If requested by an Athlete or other Person who seeks to enter into a case resolution agreement under this Article, 
SLADA shall allow the Athlete or other Person to discuss an admission of the anti-doping rule violation with it subject to a 
Without Prejudice Agreement.
Multiple Violations
Second or Third Anti-Doping Rule Violation
 53. (1) For an Athlete or other Person’s second anti-doping rule violation, the period of Ineligibility shall be the 
greater of:-

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 21A
  ( a) a six month period of Ineligibility; or
  ( b) a period of Ineligibility in the range between:-
   (i) the sum of the period of Ineligibility imposed for the ﬁ rst anti-doping rule violation plus the 
                                               period of Ineligibility otherwise applicable to the second anti-doping rule viol ation treated as 
                                                if it were a ﬁ rst violation, and
   (ii) twice the period of Ineligibility otherwise applicable to the second anti-doping rule violation 
                                                 treated as if it were a ﬁ rst violation.
 (2) The period of Ineligibility within this range shall be determined based on the entirety of the circumstances and 
the Athlete or other Person’s degree of Fault with respect to the second violation.
 (3) A third anti-doping rule violation will always result in a lifetime period of Ineligibility, except if the third 
violation fulﬁ lls the condition for elimination or reduction of the period of Ineligibility under rule 47 or 48 or involves a 
violation of rule 5(d) In these particular cases, the period of Ineligibility shall be from eight (8) years to lifetime Ineligibility.
 (4) The period of Ineligibility established in rule 53 (1) and 53(3) may then be further reduced by the application of 
rule 50.
   
 (5) An anti-doping rule violation for which an Athlete or other Person has established No Fault or Negligence shall 
not be considered a violation for purposes of this rule 53. In addition, an anti-doping rule violation sanctioned under rule 
45(3)(a) shall not be considered a violation for purposes of rule 53.
 (6) Additional Rules for Certain Potential Multiple Violations shall be as follows-
 ( a) for purposes of imposing sanction under rule 53, except as provided in rule 53 (6) (b) and 53 (6) (c) an anti-
    doping rule violation will only be considered a second violation if SLADA can establish that the Athlete 
      or     other Person committed the additional anti-doping rule violation after the Athlete or other Person received 
        notice pursuant to rule 29, or after SLADA made reasonable efforts to give notice of the ﬁ rst anti-doping rule 
     violation. If SLADA unable to establish this, the violations shall be considered together as one single ﬁ rst 
        violation, and   the   sanction   imposed   shall   be   based   on the violation that carries the more severe sanction, 
  including the application of Aggravating Circumstances. Results in all Competitions dating back 
     to the earlier anti-doping rule violation will be disqualiﬁ ed as provided in rule 53(1). 
 ( b)  If SLADA establishes that an Athlete or other Person committed an additional anti-doping rule violation 
prior to notiﬁ cation, and that the additional violation occurred twelve (12) months or more before or after 
the ﬁ rst-noticed violation, then the period of Ineligibility for the additional violation shall be calculated 
as if the additional violation were a stand-alone ﬁ rst violation and this period of Ineligibility is served 
consecutively, rather than concurrently, with the period of Ineligibility imposed for the earlier-noticed 
violation. Where this rule 53(6) (b) applies, the violations taken together shall constitute a single violation 
for purposes of rule 53(1). 
 ( c)  If SLADA establishes that an Athlete or other Person committed a violation of rule 5(e) in connection with 
the Doping Control process for an underlying asserted anti-doping rule violation, the violation of rule 5 
( e) shall be treated as a stand alone ﬁ rst violation and the period of Ineligibility for such violation shall 
be served consecutively, rather than concurrently, with the period of Ineligibility, if any, imposed for the 
underlying anti-doping rule violation. Where this rule 52 (6) (c) is applied, the violations taken together 
shall constitute a single violation for purposes of rule 53. 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 22A
 ( d)  If SLADA establishes that an Athlete or other Person has committed a second or third anti-doping rule 
violation during a period of Ineligibility, the periods of Ineligibility for the multiple violations shall run 
consecutively, rather than concurrently.
 54. For purposes of rule 53 each anti-doping rule violation shall take place within the same ten-year period in order 
to be considered multiple violations. 
Disqualiﬁ cation of Results in Competitions Subsequent to Sample Collection or Commission of an Anti-Doping Rule 
Violation 
 55. In addition to the automatic Disquali ﬁ cation of the results in the Competition which produced the positive 
Sample rule 43, all other competitive results of the Athlete obtained from the date a positive Sample was collected (whether 
In  Competition or Out-of-Competition), or other anti-doping rule violation occurred, through the commencement of any 
Provisional Suspension or Ineligibility period, shall, unless fairness requires otherwise, be Disquali ﬁ ed with all of the 
resulting Consequences including forfeiture of any medals, points and prizes. 
Forfeited Prize Money 
 56. If SLADA recovers prize money forfeited as a result of an anti-doping rule violation, it shall take reasonable 
measures to allocate and distribute this prize money to the Athletes who would have been entitled to it had the forfeiting 
Athlete not competed. 
Financial Consequences
 57. (1) Where an Athlete or other Person commits an anti-doping rule violation, the SLADA may, in its discretion 
and subject to the principle of proportionality elect to-
 ( a)  recover from the Athlete or other Person costs associated with the anti  doping rule violation, regardless 
of the period of Ineligibility imposed ;and/or
  ( b) obtain a penalty, cost or a fee from the Athlete or other Person in an amount up to Rs.200,000/= only in 
      cases where the maximum period of Ineligibility has already been imposed.
   (2) The imposition of a ﬁ nancial sanction or the SLADA’s recovery of costs shall not be considered a basis for 
reducing the Ineligibility or other sanction which would otherwise be applicable under these Anti-Doping Rules.
Commencement of Ineligibility Period
 58. Where an Athlete is already serving a period of Ineligibility for an anti-doping rule violation, any new period 
of Ineligibility shall commence on the ﬁ rst day after the current period of Ineligibility has been served. Otherwise, except as 
provided below, the period of Ineligibility shall start on the date of the ﬁ nal hearing decision providing for Ineligibility or, if 
the hearing is waived or there is no hearing, on the date Ineligibility is accepted or otherwise imposed. 
 59. Where there have been substantial delays in the hearing process or other aspects of Doping Control, and the 
Athlete or other Person can establish that such delays are not attributable to the Athlete or other Person, SLADA or SLADA’s 
Hearing Panel, if applicable, may start the period of Ineligibility at an earlier date commencing as early as the date of Sample 
collection or the date on which another anti-doping rule violation last occurred. All competitive results achieved during the 
period of Ineligibility, including retroactive Ineligibility, shall be Disqualiﬁ ed.
 60. (l) If a Provisional Suspension is respected by the Athlete or other Person, then the Athlete or other Person 
shall receive a credit for such period of Provisional Suspension against any period of Ineligibility which may ultimately be 
imposed. If the Athlete or other Person does not respect a Provisional Suspension, then the Athlete or other Person shall 
receive no credit for any period of Provisional Suspension served. If a period of Ineligibility is served pursuant to a decision 
that is subsequently appealed, then the Athlete or other Person shall receive a credit for such period of Ineligibility served 
against any period of Ineligibility which may ultimately be imposed on appeal. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 23A
  (2) If an Athlete or other Person voluntarily accepts a Provisional Suspension in writing from SLADA and 
thereafter respects the Provisional Suspension, the Athlete or other Person shall receive a credit for such period of voluntary 
Provisional Suspension against any period of Ineligibility which may ultimately be imposed. A copy of the Athlete or other 
Person’s voluntary acceptance of a Provisional Suspension shall be provided promptly to each party entitled to receive 
notice of an asserted anti-doping rule violation under rule 84(1). 
  (3) No credit against a period of Ineligibility shall be given for any time period before the effective date of the 
Provisional Suspension or voluntary Provisional Suspension regardless of whether the Athlete elected not to compete or was 
suspended by a team. 
  (4) In Team Sports, where a period of Ineligibility is imposed upon a team, unless fairness requires otherwise, 
the period of Ineligibility shall start on the date of the ﬁ nal hearing decision providing for Ineligibility or, if the hearing is 
waived, on the date Ineligibility is accepted or otherwise imposed. Any period of team Provisional Suspension (whether 
imposed or voluntarily accepted) shall be credited against the total period of Ineligibility to be served.
Status During Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension
 61. (1) No Athlete or other Person who has been declared Ineligible or is subject to a Provisional Suspension may, 
during a period of Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension, participate in any capacity in a Competition or activity (other than 
authorized anti-doping Education or rehabilitation programs) authorized or organized by any Signatory, Signatory’s member 
organization, or a club or other member organization of a Signatory’s member organization, or in Competitions authorized or 
organized by any professional league or any international- or national level Event organization or any elite or national-level 
sporting activity funded by a governmental agency.
  (2) An Athlete or other Person subject to a period of Ineligibility longer than four (4) years may, after completing 
four (4) years of the period of Ineligibility, participate as an Athlete in local sport events not sanctioned or otherwise under 
the authority of a Code Signatory or member of a Code Signatory, but only so long as the local sport event is not at a level 
that could otherwise qualify such Athlete or other Person directly or indirectly to compete in (or accumulate points toward) 
a national championship or International Event, and does not involve the Athlete or other Person working in any capacity 
with Protected Persons.
   (3) An Athlete or other Person subject to a period of Ineligibility shall remain subject to Testing and any 
requirement by SLADA to provide whereabouts information.
Return to Training
 62. As an exception to rule 61(1) an Athlete may return to train with a team or to use the facilities of a club or other 
member organization of SLADA’s or other Signatory’s member organization during the shorter of the last two months of the 
Athlete’s period of Ineligibility, or the last one-quarter of the period of Ineligibility imposed.
Violation of the Prohibition of Participation During Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension.
 63.(1) Where an Athlete or other Person who has been declared Ineligible violates the prohibition against 
participation during Ineligibility described in rule 62 the results of such participation  shall  be  Disquali ﬁ ed  and  a  new  
period  of  Ineligibility  equal  in  length  to  the original period of Ineligibility shall be added to the end of the origina l 
period of Ineligibility. The  new period of  Ineligibility, including a  reprimand  and  no  period of  Ineligibility, may be 
adjusted  based on the Athlete or other  Person’s degree  of Fault  and other  circumstances  of the  case.  The  determination   
of  whether   an  Athlete   or  other   Person  has  violated  the prohibition against participation, and whether an adjustment  
is appropriate, shall be made by the Anti-Doping Organization  whose  Results Management  led to the  imposition of the  
initial period of Ineligibility. This decision may be appealed under rule 69.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 24A
 (2) An Athlete or other Person who violates the prohibition against participation during a Provisional Suspension 
described in rule 60(1) shall receive no credit for any period of Provisional Suspension served and the results of such 
participation shall be disqualiﬁ ed.
 (3) Where an Athlete Support Person or other Person assists a Person in violating the prohibition against 
participation during Ineligibility or a Provisional Suspension, SLADA shall impose sanctions for a violation of rule 5 (i) for 
such assistance.
Withholding of Financial Support during Ineligibility
 64.ln addition, for any anti-doping rule violation not involving a reduced sanction as described in rule 48 or 49 
some or all sport-related ﬁ nancial support or other sport-related bene ﬁ ts received by such Person will be withheld by 
SLADA, the Government of Sri Lanka, the National Olympic Committee of Sri Lanka, the National Paralympic Committee 
of Sri Lanka and the National Federations.
Testing of Team Sports
 65.Where more than one member of a team in a Team Sport has been noti ﬁ ed of an anti-doping rule violation under 
rule 29 to 37 in connection with an event, the ruling body for the event shall conduct appropriate target testing of the team 
during the event Period.
Consequences for Team Sports
 66. If more than two members of a team in a team sport are found to have committed an anti-doping rule violation 
during an event period, the ruling body of the event shall impose an appropriate sanction on the team in addition to any 
consequences imposed upon the individual athletes committing the anti-doping rule violation.
Event Ruling Body may Establish Stricter Consequences for Team Sports
 67. The  ruling  body  for  an  event  may  elect  to  establish  rules  for  the  event  which imposes consequences for 
team sports stricter than those in rule 66 for purposes of the event.
SANCTIONS BY SLADA AGAINST OTHER SPORTING BODIES
 68. where the SLADA becomes aware that a National Federation in Sri Lanka or any other sporting body in Sri 
Lanka over which it has authority has failed to comply with, implement, uphold, and enforce these Anti-Doping Rules 
within that organization’s or body’s area of competence, SLADA may elect to request the National Olympic Committee of 
Sri Lanka, the Government of Sri Lanka or International Federations to take the following additional disciplinary actions, 
or, where it has the authority, may itself take the following additional disciplinary actions:
 ( a) to Exclude all,or some group of, members of that organization or body from speci ﬁ ed future  Events or all 
Events conducted within a speciﬁ ed period of time.
 ( b) to take additional disciplinary actions with respect to that organization’s or body’s  recognition,  the  eligibility  
of  their  members  to  participate  in the SLADA’s activities, and/or a penalty, cost or fee on that organization or body based 
on the following:-
  (i) four (4) or more violations of these Anti-Doping Rules (other than violations involving rule 5 (d) are 
committed by Athletes or other.
Persons afﬁ liated with that organization or body during a twelve (12) month period. In such event all or some group of 
members of that organization or body may be banned from participation in any SLADA activities for a period of up to two 
(2) years and/or  that organization or body may be charged a penalty,cost or fee in an amount up to Rs. 200,000/=.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 25A
  (ii) four (4) or more violations of these Anti-Doping Rules (other than violations involving rule 5 (d) 
are committed in addition to the violations described in rule 68 (b) (ii) by Athletes or other Persons af ﬁ liated with that 
organization or body during a twelve (12) month period. In such event, that organization or body may be suspended for a 
period of up to four (4) years.
  (iii) more  than   one  Athlete   or   other   Person   af ﬁ liated   with   that organization  or body commits an 
anti-doping rule violation during an International Event. In such event, that organization or body may be  charged  a  penalty, 
cost  or  a  fee  in  an  amount  up  to  Rs. 500,000/=.
  (iv) that  organization  or  body  has failed to  make  diligent  efforts  to keep   SLADA   informed   about   
an Athlete’s whereabouts after receiving a request for that information from SLADA. In such event, that organization 
or body may be charged a penalty cost or a fee in an   amount   up   to   Rs.200,000/=   per   Athlete,   in   addition   to 
reimbursement  of all of the SLADA  costs incurred  in Testing that organization’s or body’s Athletes.
 (c) Withhold some or all funding or other ﬁ nancial and non-ﬁ nancial support to that organization or body.
 (d) Oblige that organization or body to reimburse SLADA for all costs (including but not limited to laboratory fees, 
hearing expenses, and travel) related to a violation of these Anti-Doping Rules committed by an Athlete or other Person
afﬁ liated with that organization or body.
Results Management : Appeals
Decisions Subject to Appeal
 69. (1) Decisions made under the Code or these Anti-Doping Rules may be appealed as speci ﬁ ed in rule 70 as 
otherwise provided in these Anti-Doping Rules, the Code or the International Standards. Such decisions shall remain in 
effect while under appeal unless the appellate body orders otherwise.
 (2) The scope of review on appeal shall include all issues relevant to the matter and is expressly  not limited to the 
issues or scope of review before the initial decision maker.
 (3) Any party to the appeal may submit evidence, legal arguments and claims that were not raised in the ﬁ rst 
instance hearing so long as they arise from the same cause of action or same general facts or circumstances raised or 
addressed in the ﬁ rst instance hearing.
 (4) In  making  its  decision,  CAS  shall  not  give  deference  to  the  discretion exercised by the body whose 
decision is being appealed.
 (5)Where WADA has a right to appeal under rule 68 and no other party has appealed a ﬁ nal decision within 
SLADA’s process, WADA may appeal such decision directly to CAS without having to exhaust other remedies in the 
process of SLADA.
Appeals   from    Decisions   Regarding  Anti-Doping   Rule  Violations,   Consequences, Provisional Suspensions, 
Implementati on of Decisions and Authority
 70. (1) A decision that an anti-doping rule violation was committed, a decision imposing Consequences or not 
imposing Consequences for an anti-doping rule violation, or a decision that no anti-doping rule violation was committed; a 
decision that an anti -doping rule violation  proceeding cannot  go forward for  procedural reasons (including, for  example,  
prescription); a  decision  by WADA  not to grant an  exception to the six  months notice requirement for a retired Athlete to 
return to competition under rule 26 (1); a decision by WADA assigning Results Management under Article 7.1of the Code; 
a decision  by SLADA  not to  bring forward  an  Adverse  Analytical  Finding or  an  Atypical Finding as  an anti-doping 
rule violation, or  a decision  not to go forward  with  an anti-doping  rule  violation   after  an  investigation  in  accordance   
with  the   International Standard for Results Management; a decision to impose, or lift, a Provisional Suspension as a  result 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 26A
of a Provisional  Hearing; SLADA’s failure to comply with rule 32; a decision that  SLADA  lacks  authority  to  rule  on  an  
alleged  anti-doping  rule  violation  or  its Consequences; a decision to suspend,or not suspend,Consequences or to reinstate, 
or not reinstate, Consequences  under rule 51(1); failure to comply with Articles 7.1.4 and
 7.1.5 of the code; failure to comply with rule 52(1); a decision under rule 63; a decision by SLADA not to implement 
an other Anti-Doping Organization's decision under rule 88; and a decision under Article 27.3 of the Code may be applealed 
as provided in this rule 70.
 (2) In  cases  arising  from  participation  in  an  International  Event  or  in  cases involving International-Level 
Athletes, the decision may be appealed exclusively to CAS.
 (3) In cases where rule 70 (2) is not applicable, the decision may be appealed to the SLADA’s Appeal Panel. The 
appeal process shall be carried out in accordance with the International Standard for Results Management.
  
Hearings before SLADA’s Appeal Panel
 71.(1)  The  Minister  shall  appoint to the  SLADA  an  Appeal  Panel which  shall consist  of  an  independent  
Chair  and  two  (2)  other  independent  members.one  (1)  panel member  shall  be  a qualiﬁ ed  lawyer,  with  no  less  than  
three  (3)  years  of  relevant  legal experience, and one (1) panel member shall be a qualiﬁ ed  medical practitioner, with no 
less than three (3) years of relevant medical experience.
 (2) Each member shall be appointed by taking into consideration their requisite anti  doping experience  including 
their legal, sports, medical and/or scientiﬁ c expertise. Each member shall be appointed for term of three (3) years and can be 
reappointed.
 (3)The appointed members shall be operationally and institutionally Independent. Board members,  staff  members,  
commission  members,  consultants  and  ofﬁ cials  of  SLADA  or  its afﬁ liates (such as a Delegated Third Party), as well as 
any Person involved in the investigation, pre-adjudication  or  Results  Management  of  the  matter,  cannot  be  appointed  
as  members and/or  clerks  of  SLADA’s  Appeal   Panel].  In  particular,  no  member  shall  have  previously considered  
any  TUE  application,  Results  Management   decision,  ﬁ rst  instance,  or  appeal involving the same Athlete in a given 
case.
 (4) SLADA’s Appeal Panel shall be in a position to conduct the hearing and decision  making process without inter-
ference from SLADA or any third party.
 (5) lf a member appointed by the Minister to hear a case is unwilling or unable, for whatever reason, to hear the 
case, the Minister may appoint a replacement or appoint a new hearing panel.
 (6 ) The SLADA’s Appeal Panel can appoint an expert to assist or advise the panel at its absolute discretion.
 (7) The   International   Federation,  the   National   Federation,  the   National   Olympic Committee, if not a  party  
(or  parties) to the  proceedings, and WADA  each  have the  right to attend hearings of the SLADA’s Appeal Panel as an 
observer.
 (8) Hearings  pursuant  to  rule  70  shall  be  completed  as  expeditiously  as possible.Hearings held in connection 
with Events may be conducted on an expedited basis.
Proceedings of the SLADA’s Appeal Panel
 72. (1) proceedings of the SLADA’s Appeal Panel shall respect the principles described in Articles 8,9,and 10 of 
the International Standard for Result Management.
 (2) Each member shall sign a declaration that there are no facts or circumstances known to him or her which 
might call into question their impartiality in the eyes of any of the parties, other than those circumstances disclosed in the 
declaration.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 27A
 (3) The appellant shall present his/her case and the respondent party or parties shall present his/her/their case(s) in 
reply.
 (4)1f any party or his/her  representative fails to attend a hearing after noti ﬁ cation,the hearing may nevertheless 
proceed.
 (5) Each  party shall  have the  right to  be  represented  by counsel  at  a  hearing at that party’s own expense.
 (6) Each party shall have the right to have an interpreter at the hearing at that party’s expense.
 (7) Each party to the proceedings has the right to access and present relevant evidence, to submit written and oral 
submissions, and to call and examine witnesses.
Decisions of the SLADA’s Appeal Panel
 73. (1) At the end of the hearing,or promptly thereafter, the SLADA’s Appeal Panel shall issue a written,dated and 
signed decision that respects the principles of Article 9 of the International Standard for Results Management.
 (2) The decision shall notably include the full reasons for the decision and for any period of Ineligibility  imposed,  
including  (if  applicable)  a  justiﬁ cation  for  why  the  maximum  potential sanction was not imposed.
 (3) SLADA shall notify the decision to the Athlete or other  Person, to his or her National Federation, and to 
Anti-Doping Organizations with  a right to  appeal  under rule 74,and shall promptly report it into ADAMS.
 (4) The decision may be appealed as provided in Article rule 73 and Publicly Disclosed as provided in rule 86.
Persons Entitled to Appeal
 74.(1) In cases under rule 70 (2), the following parties shall have the right to appeal to CAS:.-
  (a) the Athlete or other Person who is the subject of the decision being appealed;
  (b) the  other  party to the case  in which the decision was rendered;
  (c) the relevant International Federation;
  (d) SLADA  and  the  National Anti-Doping Organization  of the  Person’s  country  of residence or 
                                   countries where the Person is a national or license holder;
  (e) the  International Olympic  Committee  or  International Paralympic Committee,  as applicable, where 
                          the decision may have an effect in relation to the Olympic Games or Paralympic Games, including 
                                  decisions affecting eligibility for the Olympic Games or Paralympic Games; and
  (f) WADA.
 (2) In cases under rule 70(3), the following parties shall have the right to appeal:-
  (a) the Athlete or other Person who is the subject of the decision being appealed;
  (b) the other party to the case in which the decision was rendered;
  (c) the relevant International Federation;

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 28A
  (d) SLADA and (if different) the National Anti-Doping Organization of the Person’s country  of  residence  
                                  or  countries  where  the  Person  is  a  national  or  license holder;
  (e) the International Olympic Committee or International Paralympic Committee, as applicable, where the 
                   decision may have an effect in relation to the Olympic Games or Paralympic Games, including 
                                  decisions affecting eligibility for the Olympic Games or Paralympic Games; and
  (f)WADA.
 (3) For cases under rule 69(3), WADA, the International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic 
Committee, and the relevant International Federation shall also have the right to appeal to CAS with respect to the decision 
of SLADA’s Appeal Panel.
 (4) Any  party ﬁ ling  an  appeal  shall  be  entitled  to  assistance  from  CAS  to  obtain  all relevant information from 
the Anti-Doping Organization whose decision is being appealed and the information shall be provided if CAS so directs.
Duty to Notify
 75. All parties to any CAS appeal shall ensure that WADA  and all other  parties with a right to appeal have been 
given timely notice of the appeal.
Appeal from Imposition of Provisional Suspension
 76. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the only Person who  may appeal from the  imposition  of  a  
Provisional  Suspension  is  the  Athlete  or  other  Person  upon  whom  the Provisional Suspension is imposed.
Appeal from Decisions under rule 68
 77. Any decision by SLADA pursuant to rule 68 may be appealed exclusively to CAS by the National Federation 
or other body.
Cross Appeals and other Subsequent Appeals Allowed
 78. Cross appeals and other subsequent appeals by any respondent named in cases brought to CAS under the Code 
are speciﬁ cally permitted. Any party with  a  right to appeal under this rule 69 shall ﬁ le a cross appeal or subsequent appeal 
at the latest with the party’s answer.
Failure to Render a Timely Decision by SLADA
 79. Where, in a particular case, SLADA fails to render a decision with respect to whether an anti-doping rule 
violation was committed within a reasomable deadline set by WADA, WADA may elect to appeal directly to CAS as if 
SLADA had rendered a decision ﬁ nding no anti-doping rule violation. If the CAS hearing panel determines that an anti-
doping rule violation was committed and that WADA acted reasonably in electing to appeal directly to CAS, then WADA’s 
costs and attorney fees in prosecuting the appeal shall be reimbursed to WADA by SLADA.
Appeals Relating to TUEs
 80. TUE decisions may be appealed exclusively as provided in rule 17 -22.
Notiﬁ cations of Appeal decisions
 81. The SLADA shall promptly provide the appeal decision to the Athlete or other Person and to the other Anti-
Doping Organizations that would have been entitled to appeal under rule 74 as provided under rule 84.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 29A
Time for Filing Appeals
 82.  (1) The time to ﬁ le an appeal to CAS shall be twenty-one (21) days from the date of receipt of the decision by 
the appealing party.
         (2) Rule 82(1) shall apply in connection with appeals ﬁ eld by a party entitled to appeal and shall not apply to 
whom not a party to the proceedings that led to the decision was being appealed:-
  ( a) Within ﬁ fteen (15) days from the notice of the decision, such party/parties shall 
have the right to request a copy of the full case ﬁ le pertaining to the decision from the Anti-Doping 
Organization that had Results Management authority; or
  ( b) If such a request is made within the ﬁ fteen (15) day period, then the party 
making such request shall have twenty-one (21) days from receipt of the ﬁ le to ﬁ le an appeal to CAS,
Notwithstanding the ﬁ ling deadline for an appeal ﬁ eld by WADA shall be the later of Twenty one (21) days after the last day 
on which any other party having a right to appeal could have appealed or Twenty-One (21) days after WADA’s receipt of the 
complete ﬁ le relating to the decision.
Appeals Under rule 69(3)
 83. (1) The time to ﬁ le an appeal to the SLADA's Appeal Panel Shall be twenty-one (21) days from the date of 
receipt of the decision by the appealing party.
       (2) rule 83 (1) shall apply in connection with appeals ﬁ led by a party entitled to appeal but shall not apply to 
whom was not a party to the proceedings having led to the decision subject to appeal:-
  ( a) Within ﬁ fteen (15) days from notice of the decision, such party/ parties shall have the right to request 
                         a copy of the full case ﬁ le pertaining to the decision from the Anti-Doping Organization that had 
                                   Results Managment authority; and
  ( b) If such a request is made within the ﬁ fteen (15) day period, then the party making such request shall 
                      have twenty-one (21) days from receipt of the ﬁ le to ﬁ le an appeal to the National Anti-Doping 
                                   Appeal Panel.
 Notwithstanding the ﬁ ling deadline for an appeal ﬁ eld by WADA shall be the later of Twenty one (21) days after 
the last day on which any other party having a right to appeal could have appealed or Twenty-One (21) days after WADA’s 
receipt of the complete ﬁ le relating to the decision.
Conﬁ dentiality and reporting
 84. (1) Notice to Athletes or other Persons of any anti-doping rule violation asserted against them shall occur as 
provided under rule 28 and 83.
   (2) Notice of the assertion of an anti-doping rule violation to the Athlete’s or other Person’s 
National Anti-Doping Organization, if different from SLADA, International Federation and WADA shall 
occur as provided under rule 28 and 83, simultaneously with the notice to the Athlete or other Person.
   (3) Noti ﬁ cation of an anti-doping rule violation shall include, the Athlete’s or other Person’s 
name, country, sport and discipline within the sport, the Athlete’s competitive level, whether the test was In-
Competition or Out-of-Competition, the date of Sample collection, the analytical result reported by the 
laboratory, other information as required by the International Standard for Testing and Investigations and 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 30A
International Standard for Results Management and the rule violated and the basis of the asserted 
violation.
      (4) Except with repect to investigations which have not resulted in a notice of an anti-doping rule violation 
pursuant to rule 83(1), the Athlete’s or other Person’s National Anti-Doping Organization, if different from SLADA, 
International Federation and WADA shall be regularly updated on the status and ﬁ ndings of any review or proceedings 
conducted pursuant to rule 29,38,69 and shall be provided with a prompt written reasoned explanation or decision explaning 
the resolution of the matter.
       (5) The recipient organizations shall not disclose this information beyond those Persons with a need to know 
(which would include the appropriate personnel at the applicable National Olympic Committee, National Federation, and 
team in a Team Sport) until SLADA has made Public Disclosure as permitted by rule 86.
        (6) SLADA shall ensure that information concerning Adverse Analytical Findings, Atypical Findings, and other 
asserted anti-doping rule violations remains conﬁ dential until such information is Publicly Disclosed in accordance with rule 
85. SLADA shall ensure that its employees (whether permanent or otherwise), contractors, agents, consultants, and Delegated 
Third Parties are subject to a fully enforceable contractual duty of conﬁ dentiality and to fully enforceable procedures for the 
investigation and disciplining of improper and/or unauthorized disclosure of such conﬁ dential information. 
Notice of Anti-Doping Rule Violation or Violations of Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension Decisions and Request for 
Files
 85. (1) Anti- doping rule violation decisions or decisions related to violations of Ineligibility or Provisional 
Suspension rendered pursuant to rule 36, 40, 48, 49, 51, 63 or 80 shall include the full reasons for the decision, including, if 
appliable, a justiﬁ cation for why the maximum potential sanction was not imposed. Where the decision is not in English or 
French, SLADA shall provide an English or French summary of the decision and the supporting reasons.
       (2) Anti-Doping Organization having a right to appeal a decision received pursuant to Article 85(1) may, within 
ﬁ fteen (15) days of receipt, request a copy of the full case ﬁ le pertaining to the decision.
Public Disclosure
 86. (1) After  notice has been provided to the Athlete  or other  Person in accordance with the   International  Stan-
dard   for   Results   Management,   and  to  the   applicable  Anti-Doping Organizations in accordance with Article 84(2), the 
identity of any Athlete or other Person who is  notiﬁ ed  of  a  potential  anti-doping  rule  violation,  the  Prohibited  Substance  
or  Prohibited Method and the  nature of the violation  involved, and whether the Athlete  or other  Person is subject to a 
Provisional Suspension may be Publicly Disclosed by SLADA.
     (2)  No later than twenty (20) days after it has been determined in an appellate decision under  rule 70 (2) or 
70 (3), or such  appeal has been waived, or  a hearing in accordance with rule 37  has been waived,  or the  assertion  of an  
anti-doping rule violation  has not otherwise been timely  challenged,  or the  matter  has  been  resolved  under  rule 52,or  a  
new period  of Ineligibility, or  reprimand, has been  imposed  under  rule 63, SLADA  shall  Publicly  Disclose the disposi-
tion  of the  anti-doping  matter  including the  sport, the  anti-doping rule  violated,  the name  of the Athlete  or  other  Per-
son  committing the  violation, the  Prohibited  Substance  or Prohibited Method involved and the Consequences imposed. 
SLADA shall also Publicly Disclose within twenty (20) days the results of appellate decisions concerning anti-doping rule 
violations, including the information described above.
      (3) After an anti-doping rule violation has been determined to have been committed in an appellate decision 
under rule 70(2) or 70(3) or such appeal has been waived, or in a hearing in accordance with rule 8 or where such hearing 
has been waived, or the assertion of an anti  doping rule violation has not otherwise been timely challenged, or the matter has 
been resolved under rule 51, SLADA may make public such determination or decision and may comment publicly on the 
matter.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 31A
      (4) In any  case  where  it  is  determined,  after  a  hearing or  appeal,that the  Athlete  or other Person did not 
commit an anti-doping rule violation,the fact that the decision  has been appealed may be Publicly Disclosed.  However, the 
decision itself and the underlying facts may not  be  Publicly  Disclosed  except with the  consent  of the Athlete  or  other  
Person who  is the subject  of  the  decision.  SLADA  shall  use  reasonable  efforts  to  obtain  such  consent,  and  if consent 
is obtained, shall Publicly Disclose the decision in its entirety or in such redacted form as the Athlete or other Person may 
approve.
      (5) Publication shall be accomplished at a minimum by placing the required information on the SLADA’s web-
site and leaving the information up for the longer of one (1) month or the duration of any period of Ineligibility.
     (6) Except  as  provided  in  rule  86(1)  and  86(3)  no  Anti-Doping  Organization, National Federation  or  
WADA-accredited  laboratory,  or  any  ofﬁ cial  of  any  such  body,  shall  publicly comment  on  the  speciﬁ c  facts  of  any  
pending case  (as  opposed  to  general  description  of process  and  science)  except  in  response  to  public  comments  
attributed  to,  or  based  on information provided by, the Athlete, other Person or their entourage or other representatives.
  (7) The mandatory Public Disclosure required in rule 86(2) shall not be required where the Athlete or other 
Person who has been found to have committed an anti-doping rule violation is a Minor, Protected Person or Recreational 
Athlete. Any optional Public Disclosure in a case involving a Minor, Protected Person or Recreational Athlete shall be pro-
portionate to the facts and circumstances of the case.
Statistical Report
 87. SLADA  shall, at  least  annually,  publish  publicly  a  general  statistical  report  of  its Doping  Control  activ-
ities, with  a  copy  provided to  WADA.  SLADA  may  also  publish  reports showing the name of each Athlete tested and 
the date of each Testing.
Doping Control Information Database and Monitoring of Compliance
 88. (1) To enable WADA to perform its compliance monitoring role and to ensure the effective use of resources 
and sharing of applicable Doping Control information among Anti  Doping Organizations, SLADA shall report to WADA 
through ADAMS following Doping Control  related information, including: -
  ( a) athlete  Biological  Passport  data  for  International-Level  Athletes  and National Level Athletes,
  ( b) whereabouts   information  for  Athletes  including  those  in  Registered Testing Pools,
  ( c) TUE decisions,and
  ( d) Results Management decisions,
 (2) To facilitate coordinated test distribution planning, avoid unnecessary duplication in Testing by various Anti-
Doping Organizations, and to ensure that Athlete Biological Passport pro ﬁ les are updated, SLADA shall report all In-
Competition and Out-of  Competition tests to WADA by entering the Doping Control forms into ADAMS in accordance with 
the requirements and timelines contained in the International Standard for Testing and Investigations. 
    
 (3) To facilitate WADA’s oversight and appeal rights for TUEs, SLADA shall report all TUE applications, 
decisions and supporting documentation using ADAMS in accordance with the requirements and timelines contained in the 
International Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions.
 (4) To  facilitate  WADA’s oversight  and appeal  rights for  Results  Management, SLADA   shall   report   the   
following  information   into  ADAMS   in  accordance   with   the requirements and timelines outlined in the International 
Standard for Results Management:-
  ( a) notiﬁ cations of anti-doping rule violations and related decisions for Adverse Analytical Findings;

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 32A
  ( b) notiﬁ cations and related decisions for other anti-doping rule violations that are not Adverse Analytical 
                                  Findings;
  ( c) whereabouts failures; and
  ( d) any decision imposing,lifting or reinstating a Provisional Suspension.
 (5)The information described in this rule will be made accessible, where appropriate and in accordance with the 
applicable rules, to the Athlete, the Athlete’s National Anti-Doping Organization and International Federation, and any other 
Anti-Doping Organizations with Testing authority over the Athlete.
Data Privacy
 89. (1)SLADA  may  collect,  store,  process  or  disclose  personal  information  relating to Athletes  and  other  
Persons  where  necessary  and  appropriate  to  conduct  its  Anti-Doping Activities  under the  Code,the  International 
Standards  including speciﬁ cally  the  International Standard for the Protection of Privacy and Personal Information, these 
Anti-Doping Rules, and in compliance with applicable law.
 (2) Without limiting the foregoing,SLADA shall: -
  ( a) only process personal information in accordance with a valid legal ground;
  ( b) notify any Participant or Person subject to these Anti-Doping Rules,in a  manner   and  form   that   
complies  with  applicable   laws  and  the International  Standard  for  the  Protection  of  Privacy  and  Personal Information,  
that  their  personal  information  may  be  processed  by SLADA  and  other  Persons for  the  purpose  of the implementation  
of these Anti-Doping Rules;
  ( c) ensure  that  any  third-party  agents  (including  any  Delegated  Third Party)  with  whom  SLADA  
shares  the  personal  information  of  any Participant   or   Person   is   subject   to   appropriate   technical   and contractual 
controls to protect the conﬁ dentiality  and privacy of such information.
Implementation of decisions
 90. (1)  A  decision  of  an  anti-doping  rule  violation  made  by  a  Signatory  Anti-Doping Organization, an appel-
late body (Article 13.2.2 of the Code) or CAS shall,after the parties to the proceeding are  notiﬁ ed,automatically  be binding 
beyond the parties to the proceeding upon SLADA and any National Federation in Sri Lanka, as well as every Signatory in 
every sport with the effects described below: -
  ( a) A  decision  by  any  of  the  above-described   bodies  imposing  a   Provisional Suspension  (after  
                       a  Provisional  Hearing has  occurred  or  the  Athlete  or  other Person has either  accepted the  
                         Provisional Suspension or has waived the right to  a  Provisional  Hearing, expedited  hearing  or  
                                     expedited  appeal  offered  in accordance  with rule 33(1)) automatically  prohibits the Athlete or other 
                                     Person from participation (as described in rule 61(1) in all sports within the authority of any Signatory 
                                  during the Provisional Suspension;
  ( b) A decision by any of the above-described bodies imposing a period of Ineligibility (after a hearing has 
                   occurred or been waived) automatically prohibits the Athlete or other Person from participation 
                    (as described in rule 61(1)) in all sports within the authority of any Signatory for the period of 
                                   Ineligibility.
  ( c) A decision by any of the above-described bodies accepting an anti-doping rule violation  automatically  
                                  binds all Signatories.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 33A
   ( d) A decision by any of the above-described bodies to Disqualify results under rules 55 for a speci ﬁ ed 
                              period automatically disquali ﬁ es all results obtained within the authority of any signatory during the 
                                  speciﬁ ed period.
 (2) SLADA and any National Federation in Sri Lanka shall recognize and implement a decision and its effects as 
required by rule 90 (1), without any further action required, on the earlier of the date SLADA receives actual 
notice of the decision or the date the decision is placed into ADAMS.
 (3) A decision by an Anti-Doping Organization, an appellate body or CAS to suspend, or lift consequences shall be 
binding upon SLADA, and any National Federation in Sri Lanka without any further action required, on 
the earlier of the date SLADA receives actual notice of the decision or the date the decision is placed into 
ADAMS.
 (4) Notwithstanding any provision in rule 90(1), however, a decision of an anti-doping rule violation by a Major 
Event Organization made in an expedited process during an Event shall not be binding on SLADA or National Federations 
in Sri Lanka unless the rules of the Major Event Organization provide the Athlete or other person with an opportunity to an 
appeal under non-expedited procedures.
Implementation of Other Decisions by Anti-Doping Organizations
 91. SLADA and any National Federation in Sri Lanka may decide to implement other anti-doping decisions rendered 
by Anti-Doping Organizations not described in rule 90(1) above, such as a Provisional Suspension prior to Provisional 
Hearing or acceptance by the Athlete or other Person.  
Implementation of Decisions by Body that is not a Signatory 
 92. An anti-doping decision by a body that is not a Signatory to the Code shall be implemented by SLADA and any 
National Federation in Sri Lanka, if SLADA ﬁ nds that the decision purports to be within the authority of that body and the 
anti-doping rules of that body are otherwise consistent with code.
Statute of limitations
 93. No anti-doping rule violation proceeding may be commenced against an Athlete or other Person unless he or 
she has been notiﬁ ed of the anti-doping rule violation as provided in rule 28 or noti ﬁ cation has been reasonably attempted, 
within ten (10) years from the date the violation is asserted to have occurred.
Education 
 94. SLADA shall plan, implement, evaluate and promote Education in line with the requirements of Article 18.2 of 
the Code and the International Standard for Education.
Additional roles and responsibilities of National Federations 
  95. (1)All National Federations of Sri Lanka and their members shall comply with the Code, International Stan-
dards, and these Anti-Doping Rules. All National Federations of Sri Lanka and other members shall include in their policies, 
rules and programs the provisions necessary to recognize the authority and responsibility of SLADA for implementing Sri 
Lanka’s National Anti-Doping Program and enforcing these Anti-Doping Rules (including carrying out Testing) directly in 
respect of Athletes and other Persons under their anti-doping authority as speciﬁ ed in the introduction to these Anti-Doping 
Rules.
 
       (2) Each National Federation of Sri Lanka shall accept and abide by the spirit and terms of Sri Lanka’s National 
Anti-Doping Program and these Anti-Doping Rules as a condition of receiving ﬁ nancial and/or other assistance from the 
Government of Srilanka and/or the National Olympic Committee of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 34A
      (3) Each National Federation of Sri Lanka shall incorporate these Anti-Doping Rules either directly or by 
reference into its governing documents, constitution and/or rules as part of the rules of sport that bind their members. The 
National Federation may enforce such rules itself directly in respect of Athletes and other Persons under its anti-doping 
authority.
     (4) By adopting these Anti-Doping Rules, and incorporating them into their governing documents and rules of 
sport, National Federations shall cooperate with and support the SLADA in that function. They shall also recognize, abide 
by and implement the decisions made pursuant to these Anti-Doping Rules, including the decisions imposing sanctions on 
Persons under their authority.
     (5) All National Federations of Sri Lanka shall take appropriate action to enforce compliance with the Code, 
International Standards, and these Anti-Doping Rules by inter alia:
  ( a) conducting Testing only under the documented authority of their International Federation and using 
                                SLADA or other Sample collection authority to collect Samples in compliance with the Internatio nal 
                                   Standard for Testing and Investigations;
  
  ( b) recognizing the authority of SLADA in accordance with Article 5.2.1 of the Code and assisting as 
                                   appropriate with SLADA’s implementation of the national Testing program for their sport;
  ( c) analyzing all Samples collected using a WADA-accredited or WADA-approved laboratory in 
                                   accordance with rule 28(1);
  ( d) ensuring that any national level anti-doping rule violation cases discovered by National Federations 
                                           are adjudicated by an Operationally independent hearing panel in accordance with rule 38(2) and the In
                                   ternational Standard for Results Management;
 (6) All National Federations shall establish rules requiring all Athletes preparing for or participating in a Competition 
or activity authorized or organized by a National Federation or one of its member organizations, and all Athlete Support 
Personnel associated with such Athletes to agree to be bound by these Anti-Doping Rules and to submit to the Results 
Management authority of the Anti-Doping Organization in conformity with the Code as a condition of such participation;
 (7) All National Federations shall report any information suggesting or relating to an anti-doping rule violation 
to SLADA and to their International Federation and shall cooperate with investigations conducted by any Anti-Doping 
Organization with authority to conduct the investigation; 
 (8) All National Federations shall have disciplinary rules in place to prevent Athlete Support Personnel who are 
Using Prohibited Substances or Prohibited Methods without valid justiﬁ cation from providing support to Athletes under the 
authority of SLADA or the National Federation; and
 (9) All National Federations shall conduct anti-doping Education in coordination with SLADA. 
Additional roles and responsibilities of SLADA
96.(1) In addition to the roles and responsibilities described in Article 20.5 of the code for National Anti-Doping Organizations, 
SLADA shall report to WADA on SLADA’s compliance with the Code and International Standards in accordance with 
Article with 24.1.2 of the Code.
 (2) Subject to applicable law, and in accordance with Article 20.5.10 of the Code, all SLADA’s board members, 
directors, ofﬁ cers, and those employees ( any those of appointed Delegated Third Parties), who are involved in any aspect 
of Doping Control, shall sign a form provided by the SLADA, agreeing to be bound by these Anti-Doping Rules as Persons 
in conformity with the Code for direct and international misconduct.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 35A
 (3) Subject to the applicable law, and in accordance with Article 20.5.11 of the Code, any SLADA employee who is 
involved in Doping Control (other than authorized anti-doping Education or rehabilitation programs) shall sing a statement 
provided by SLADA conﬁ rming that they are not Provisionally Suspended or serving a period of Ineligibility and have not 
been directly or intentionally engaged in conduct within the previous six (6) years which would have constituted a violation 
of anti-doping rules if Code-compliant rule had been applicable to them. 
Additional roles and responsibilities of athletes 
97. The additional roles and the responsibilities of the athletes shall be –
 ( a) to be knowledgeable of and comply with these Anti-Doping Rules;
 ( b) to be available for Sample collection at all times;
 ( c) to take responsibilities in the context of anti-doping for what they ingest and use;
 ( d) to inform medical personnel of their obligation not to Use Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods and 
              to take responsibility to make sure that any medical treatment received does not violate these Anti-Doping 
                    Rules;
 ( e) to disclose to SLADA and their International Federation any decision by a non-Signatory ﬁ nding that the 
                    Athlete committed an anti-doping rule violation within the pervious ten (10) years;
 ( f) to cooperate with Anti-Doping Organizations investigating anti-doping rule violations. Failure by any Athlete 
               to cooperate in full with Anti-Doping Organizations investigating anti-doping rule violations may result in a 
                    violation under SLADA’s code of conduct.
 ( g) to disclose the identity of their Athlete Support Personnel upon request by SLADA or a National Federation, or 
                    any other Anti - Doping Organization with authority over the Athlete; and
 ( h) Offensive conduct towards a Doping Control Of ﬁ cial or other person involved in Doping Control by  an 
                        Athlete, which does not otherwise  constitute Tampering, may result in a [charge of misconduct] under SLADA's 
                     code of conduct  take responsibility, in the  context of anti-doping, for what they ingest and Use.
Additional roles and responsibilities of athlete  support personnel
98. It shall be the role and the responsibility of every athlete support personnel:-
 ( a) to be knowledgeable of  and comply with these Anti-Doping Rules;
 ( b) to cooperate with the Athlete Testing program;
 ( c) to use their inﬂ uence on Athlete values and behavior to foster  anti- doping attitudes; 
 ( d) to disclose to SLADA and their International Federation any decision  by a non-Signatory ﬁ nding that  they 
                    committed  an anti-doping  rule violation within the previous ten (10) years;
 ( e) to cooperate with  Anti-Doping  Organizations investigating anti-doping rule violations; Failure  by any Athlete  
             Support Personnel  to cooperate  in full with Anti-Doping  Organizations  investigating  anti-doping  rule 
                    violations may result in a [charge of misconduct] under SLADA's code of conduct;

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 36A
 ( f) to abstain from Using or Possessing any Prohibited  Substance  or Prohibited Method without valid  justiﬁ cation. 
                   Any such Use  or Possesssion may result in a charge  of misconduct  under SLADA's  code of conduct; and 
 ( g) to abstain from any Offensive conduct towards a Doping Control  ofﬁ cial  or other Person involved in Doping              
                    Control by Athlete  Support Personnel, which does not  otherwise constitute Tampering, may result in a charge 
                    of misconduct under SLADA's code of conduct.
Additional roles and responsibilities of other persons subject to these anti-doping rules
99. The roles and the responsibilities of the other persons subject to anti-doping  rules shall be:-
 
 ( a) to be knowledgeable  of and company with these Anti-Doping Rules;
 ( b) to disclose to SLADA and their International Federation  any decision by a non-Signatory ﬁ nding that they                       
                    committed and anti-doping rule violation within the previous ten (10) years;
 ( c) to cooperate with Anti - Doping Organizations investigating  anti-doping rule violations.  Failure by any other 
                  Person  subject to these Anti-Doping  Rules to cooperate in full with Anti-Doping organizations investigating   
                    anti-doping rule violations  may result in a charge of misconduct under SLADA's code of conduct;
 ( d) not to Use or Possess any Prohibited  Substance or Prohibited Method without valid justiﬁ cation; and
 ( e) to abstain from any offensive conduct towards  a Doping Control Ofﬁ icial or other Person involved  in Doping           
                  Control  by a Person, which  does not otherwise  constitute Tampering, may  result in a  charge of misconduct  
                    under SLADA's code of  conduct.
 100. These Anti-Doping Rules shall be deem to come into operation on ............... (hereinafter referred to as the 
“effective date ”). They shall not apply retroactively to matters pending before the Effective Date: 
Provided, however, that: 
 ( a) any Anti-doping rule violation taking place prior to the effective date shall count as ''ﬁ rst violations''   or ''second 
                  violations''  for the purpose of determining  any sanction  under rule 44 to 64 violations taking  place afte r the 
effective date.
 ( b) Any anti-doping rule violation case which is pending as of the Effective Date and any anti- doping  rule violation 
                        case  brought after the Effective Date based on an anti-doping  rule violation which occured prior to the  Effective 
                Date, shall be governed  by the substantive  anti-doping rules in effect at the time the alleged anti-doping ru le 
                 violation  occured, and not by the substantive anti-doping rules set out in these Anti-Doping  Rules, unless t he  
                     panel hearing  the case determines the principle of ''lex mitior'' appropriately  applies under the circumstances of 
                        the case. For these purposes, the retrospective periods in which prior violations can be considered for purposes of 
                multiple violations under rule 53(6)(d) and the statute  of limitations set forth in rule 93 are procedural  ru les 
           not substantive rules, and shall be applied  retroactively along with  all of the other procedural  rules in 
               these Anti-Doping  Rules (Provided, however, that rule93 shall only be applied retroactively if the statute  of 
                   limitations period has not already expired by the Effective Date);
 ( c) Any whereabouts failure (whether a ﬁ ling failure or a missed test, as those terms are deﬁ ned in the International  
                    Standard for  Results Management), prior to the Effective Date shall be carried forward and may be relied upon, 
                    prior to expiry, in accordance with  the International Standard for Results Management, but it shall be deemed to 
                   have  expired twelve (12) months after it occurred.
 ( d) With respect to cases where a ﬁ nal decision ﬁ nding an anti - doping  rule violation has been  rendered prior to 
                the Effective Date, but the athlete or other Person is still serving the period of Ineligibility as of the Effe ctive 
                  Date, the Athlete or other Person may apply to SLADA or other Anti-Doping Organization  which had Results 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 37A
          Management responsibility  for the anti-doping rule violation  to consider a reduction in the period of 
          ineligibility in light of these Anti-Doping Rules. Such application shall be made before the period of  
                     Ineligibility has expired. The decision rendered may be appealed pursuant to rule 70. These Anti-droping  Rules 
               shall have  no application to any case where a ﬁ nal decision ﬁ nding an anti-doping rule violation has been 
                   rendered and the period of Ineligibility  has expired.
 ( e) For purposes  of assessing  the period of Ineligibility for a second violation under rule 53(1), where  the sanction 
                       for the ﬁ rst violation was determined based on rules in force prior to the Effective Date, the period of Ineligibility  
                which would have been assessed for that ﬁ rst violation had these Anti-Doping Rules been applicable, shall be 
                   applied.
 ( f) Changes to the Prohibited List and  Technical Documents relating  to substances or  methods on the Prohibited 
                 List shall not, unless they  speci ﬁ cally  provide otherwise, be applied retroactively. As an exception, however, 
                 when a prohibited  Substance or a Prohibited  Method has been removed from the Prohibited List, an Athlete 
                  or other Person currently serving a period of Ineligibility on account  of the formerly Prohibited  Substance  or 
                 Prohibited Methods may  apply to SLADA or other Anti-Doping Organization which had Results Management 
              responsibility  for the anti-doping rule violation to consider a reduction in the period of Ineligibility in ligh t 
                   of the removal  of the substance or method from the Prohibited List.
Interpretation:
101. For the purpose of these rules:
 '' Anti- Doping Administration and Management System (ADAMS)'' means a Web-based database management 
tool  for data entry, storage, sharing, and reporting designed to assist stakeholders and WADA in their anti-doping operations 
in conjucntion with data protection legislation;
 ''Administration''  means providing, supplying, supervising, facilitating  or otherwise participating  in the Use or 
Attempted Use by another Person of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Methods;
 ''Adverse Analytical Finding''  means report from a WADA - accredited laboratory or other WADA approved 
laboratory consistent with the International Standard for  Laboratories  and related Technical  Documents, identi ﬁ es in a 
sample the  presence of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites  or Markers, including elevated quantities of endogenous  
substances or evidence of the Use of any Prohibited Methods;
 '' Adverse Passport Finding'' means Report identi ﬁ ed as an Adverse Passport Finding as described in the applicable 
International Standards;  
  “Aggravating Circumstances” means Circumstances involving or actions by, an Athlete or other Person which may 
justify the imposition of a period of Ineligibility greater than the standard sanction. Such circumstances and actions shall 
include, but are not limited to the Athlete or other Person Used or Possessed multiple Prohibited Substances or Prohibited 
Methods, Used or Possessed a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method on multiple occasions or committed multiple 
other anti-doping rule violations;
 “Anti-Doping Activities” includes Anti-doping Education and information, test distribution planning, maintenance 
of a Registered Testing Pool, managing Athlete Biological Passports, conducting Testing, organizing analysis of Samples, 
gathering of intelligence and conduct of investigations, processing of TUE applications, Results Management, monitoring 
and enforcing compliance with any Consequences imposed, and all other activities related to anti-doping to be carried out 
by or on behalf of an Anti-Doping Organization, as set out in the Code and/or the International Standards;
 “Anti-Doping Organization” means a Signatory that is responsible for adopting rules for initiating, implementing 
or enforcing any part of the Doping Control process. This includes, the International Olympic Committee, the International 

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 38A
Paralympic Committee, other Major Event Organizations, conduct Testing at their Events, WADA, International Federations, 
and National Anti-Doping Organizations;
 “Athlete” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention Against Anti-Doping in Sports Act, No. 33 of 
2013;
 “Athlete Biological Passport” means the program and methods of gathering and collating data as described in the 
International Standard for Testing and Investigations and International Standard for Laboratories;
 “Athlete Support Personnel” means any coach, trainer, manager, agent, team staff, of ﬁ cial, medical, paramedical 
personnel, parent or any other Person working with, treating or assisting an Athlete participating in or preparing for sports 
Competition;
 “Attempt” means purposely engaging in conduct that constitutes a substantial step in a course of conduct planned to 
culminate in the commission of an anti-doping rule violation. Provided, however, there shall be no anti-doping rule violation 
based solely on an Attempt to commit a violation if the Person renounces the Attempt prior to it being discovered by a third 
party not involved in the Attempt;
 “Atypical Finding” means a report from a WADA-accredited laboratory or other WADA-approved laboratory which 
requires further investigation as provided by the International standard for Laboratories or related Technical Documents prior 
to the determination of an Adverse Analytical Finding;
 “Atypical Passport Finding” means a report described as an Atypical Passport Finding as described in the applicable 
International Standards;
 “Court of Arbitration (CAS)” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention against Anti-Doping in 
Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013.
 “Code” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention Against Anti-Doping in Sports Act, No. 33 of 
2013;
 “Competition” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention Against Anti-Doping in Sports Act, No. 
33 of 2013;
 “Contaminated Product” means a report that contains a Prohibited Substance that is not disclosed on the product 
label or in information available in a reasonable Internet search;
 “Decision Limit” means the value of the result for a threshold substance in a Sample, above which an Adverse 
Analytical Finding shall be reported, as deﬁ ned in the International Standard for Laboratories;
 “Delegated Third Party” means any Person to which SLADA delegates any aspect of Doping Control or anti-doping 
Education programs including, but not limited to, third parties or other Anti-Doping Organizations that conduct Sample 
collection or other Doping Control services or anti-doping Educational programs for SLADA or individuals serving as 
independent, contractors who perform Doping Control services for SLADA;
 “Disquali ﬁ cation” means the Athlete’s results in a particular Competition or Event are invalidated, with all resulting 
Consequences including forfeiture of any medals, points and prizes;
 Doping Control: All steps and processes from test distribution planning through to ultimate disposition of any 
appeal and the enforcement of Consequences, including all steps and processes in between, including but not limited to, 
Testing, investigations, whereabouts, TUEs, Sample collection and handling, laboratory analysis, Results Management and 
investigations or proceedings relating to violations of rule 61 (Status During Ineligibility or Provisional Suspension);

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 39A
 “Education” means the process of learning to instill values and develop behaviors that foster and protect the spirit 
of sport, and to prevent intentional and unintentional doping;
 “Event” means a series of individual Competitions conducted together under one ruling body including the Olympic 
Games, FINA World Championships, or Pan American Games;
 “Event Period” means the time between the beginning and end of an Event, as established by the ruling body of the 
Event;
 “Event Venues” means the venues so designated by the ruling body for the any Event;
 “Fault” means the Fault in any breach of duty or any lack of care appropriate to a particular situation. Factors to be 
taken into consideration in assessing an Athlete’s or other Persons’s degree of Fault include, for example, the Athlete’s or other 
Person’s experience, whether the Athlete or other Person is a Protected Person, special considerations such as impairment, 
the degree of risk that should have been perceived by the Athlete and the level of care and investigation exercised by the 
Athlete in relation to what should have been the perceived level of risk;
 “Financial Consequences” means a ﬁ nancial sanction imposed for an anti-doping rule violation or to recover costs 
associated with an anti-doping rule violation;
 “In-Competition’ means the period commencing at 11.59 p.m. on the day before a Competition in which the Athlete 
is scheduled to participate through the end of such Competition and the Sample collection process related to such Competition. 
Provided, however, WADA may approve, for a particular sport, an alternative deﬁ nition if an International Federation provides 
a compelling justiﬁ cation that a different deﬁ nition is necessary for its sport; upon such approval by WADA, the alternative 
deﬁ nition shall be followed by all Major Event Organizations for that particular sport;
 “Independent Observer Program” means a team of observers and/or auditors, under the supervision of WADA, who 
observe and provide guidance on the Doping Control process prior to or during certain Events and report on their observations 
as part of WADA’s compliance monitoring program;
 “Individual Sport” means any sport that is not a Team Sport;
 “Ineligibility” means the prohibition imposed on an Athlete or other Person on account of an anti-doping rule 
violation for a speciﬁ ed period of time from participating in any Competition or other activity or funding;
 “International Event” means an Event or Competition where the International Olympic Committee, the International 
Paralympic Committee, an International Federation, a Major Event Organization, or another international sport organization 
is the ruling body for the Event or appoints the technical ofﬁ cials for the Event;
 “International-Level Athlete” means an athlete who competes in sport at the international level, as de ﬁ ned by each 
International Federation, consistent with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations;
 “International Standard” means a standard adopted by WADA in support of the Code International Standards shall 
include any Technical Documents issued pursuant to the International Standard. 
 “Major Event Organizations” means the continental associations of National Olympic Committees and other 
international multi-sport organizations that function as the ruling body for any continental, regional or other International 
Event.
 “Marker” means a compound, group of compounds or biological variable(s) that indicates the Use of a Prohibited 
Substance or Prohibited Method.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 40A
 “Metabolite” means any substance produced by a biotransformation process;
 “Minimun Reporting Level” The estimated concentration of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolite(s) or Marker(s) 
in a Sample below which WADA-accredited laboratories should not report that Sample as an Adverse Analytical Finding;
 “Minor” means a natural Person who has not reached the age of Eighteen (18) years;
 “National Anti - Doping Organization” means any entity designated by each country as possessing the primary 
authority and responsibility to adopt and implement anti-doping rules, direct the collection of Samples, the management of 
test results, and the conduct of hearings at the national level. If this designation has not been made by any competent public 
authority, the entity shall be the country’s National Olympic Committee or its designee;
 “National Event” a sport Event or Competition involving International - or National - Level Athletes that is not an 
International Event;
 “National Federation” means a national or regional entity in Sri Lanka which is a member of or is recognized by an 
International Federation as the entity governing the International Federation’s sport in that nation or region in Sri Lanka;
 “National level athlete” means,
 ( a) an athlete who participates in any sport of a national level competition organized by the respective Sports 
Organization or the Department of Sports Development, Ministry of Sports;
 ( b) an athlete who competes at the highest level of national competition in any sport;
 ( c) an athlete who competes at the national level or in international events as an international level athlete by the 
International Federation:
   Provided, that where any athlete is classi ﬁ ed by his respective International Federation as an International Level 
Athlete such athlete shall be considered an International-Level Athlete and not a National-Level Athlete for the purposes of 
these Anti-Doping Rules; 
 “National Olympic Committee” means the organization recognized by the International Olympic Committee. In Sri 
Lanka, the National Olympic Committee is National Olympic Committee of Sri Lanka;
 “No Fault or Negligence” means the Athlete did not know or suspect, and could not reasonably have known or 
suspected even with the exercise of utmost caution, that the Athlete had Used or been administered the Prohibited Substance 
or Prohibited Method or otherwise violated an anti-doping rule. 
 “Operational Independence” means -
 ( a) board members, staff members, commission members, consultants and of ﬁ cials of the Anti-Doping 
Organization with responsibility for Results Management or its afﬁ liates as well as any Person involved in the investigation 
and pre-adjudication of the matter cannot be appointed as members and /or clerks of hearing panels of that Anti-Doping 
Organization with responsibility for Results Management. (The hearing panels shall be in a position to conduct the hearing 
and decision-making process without interference from the Anti-Doping Organization or any third party. The objective is 
to ensure that members of the hearing panel or individuals otherwise involved in the decision of the hearing panel, are not 
involved in the investigation of, or decisions to proceed with the case)
 “Out-of-Competition” any period which is not in-Competition;
 “Participant” means any Athlete or Athlete Support Person;

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 41A
 “Person” means a natural Person or an organization or other entity;
 “Possession” means the actual, physical Possession, or the constructive Possession
 “Prohibited List” means the List of substances and methods as published by the World Anti-Doping Agency;
 “Prohibited Method” means any method so described on the Prohibited List;
 “Prohibited Substance” means any substance, or class of substances, so described on the Prohibited List;
 “Protected Person” means an Athlete or other natural Person who at the time of the anti-doping rule violation -
 ( a) has not reached the age of sixteen (16) years;
 ( b) has not reached the age of eighteen (18) years and is not included in any Registered Testing Pool and has never 
                    competed in any International Event in an open category ;
  or
 ( c) for reasons other than age has been determined to lack legal capacity under applicable national legislation.
 “Provisional Hearing” means an expedited abbreviated hearing occurring prior to a hearing under rule 38 that 
provides the Athlete with notice and an opportunity to be heard in either written or oral form;
 “Provisional Suspension” means the Athlete or other Person is barred temporarily from participating in any 
Competition or activity prior to the ﬁ nal decision at a hearing conducted;
 “Publicly Disclose” means the dissemination or distribution of information to the general public or Persons beyond 
those Persons entitled to earlier notiﬁ cation in accordance with rule 84;
 “Regional Anti-Doping Organization” a regional entity designated by member countries to coordinate and manage 
delegated areas of their national anti-doping programs, which may include the adoption and implementation of anti-doping 
rules, the planning and collection of Samples, the management of results, the review of TUEs, the conduct of hearings, and 
the conduct of Educational programs at a regional level;
 “Registered Testing Pool” means the pool of highest-priority Athletes established separately at the international 
level by International Federations and at the national level by National Anti-Doping Organizations, who are subject to 
focused In-Competition and Out-of-Competition Testing as part of that International Federation’s or National Anti-Doping 
Organization’s test distribution plan;
 “Results Management” means the process encompassing the timeframe between noti ﬁ cation as per Article 5 of 
the International Standard for Results Management, or in certain cases, such pre-noti ﬁ cation steps expressly provided for 
in Article 5 of the International Standard for Results Management, through the charge until th ﬁ nal resolution of the matter, 
including the end of the hearing process at ﬁ rst instance or on appeal;
 “Sample or Specimen” means any biological material collected for the purposes of Doping Control;
 “Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency (SLADA)” means the Sri Lanka Anti-Doping Agency established by the 
Convention Against Doping in Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013.
 “Technical Document” means a document adopted and published by WADA from time to time containing mandatory 
technical requirements on speciﬁ c anti-doping topics as set forth in an International Standard;
 “Testing Pool” means the tier below the Registered Testing Pool which includes Athletes from whom some 
whereabouts information is required in order to locate and Test the Athlete Out-of-Competition;

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'13
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2022
 42A
 “Traf ﬁ cking means” selling, giving, transporting, sending, delivering or distributing (or Possessing for any such 
purpose) a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method (either physically or by any electronic or other means) by an Athlete, 
Athlete Support Person or any other Person subject to the authority of an Anti-Doping Organization to any third party; 
provided, however, this de ﬁ nition shall not include the actions of bona ﬁ de medical personnel involving a Prohibited 
Substance Used for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or other acceptable justi ﬁ cation, and shall not include actions 
involving Prohibited Substances which are not prohibited in Out-of-Competition Testing unless the circumstances as a 
whole demonstrate such Prohibited Substances are not intended for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or are intended 
to enhance sport performance;
 “Testing” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention Against Doping in Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013;
 “Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE)” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention Against Doping in 
Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013;
 “Use” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention against Doping in Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013;
 “World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA)” has the same meaning as assigned to it in the Convention Against Doping 
in Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013.
102. The rules published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2163/20 of February 19, 2020 are hereby rescinded without prejudice 
anything previously done thereunder.
EOG 04 - 0088
   
 
 
  
  
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.