

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2343$60 - 2023 wf.daaia;= ui 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2023.08.04
No. 2343/60  -  friday,   august  04,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- g 40066 - 366 (08/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
l.d.-b. 3/2021 (ii)
ThE  COLOmbO  PORT  CITY  ECONOmIC  COmmISSION  ACT,  No. 11  Of  2021 
regulatioNs made by the Minister of investment Promotion in consultation with the Colombo Port City economic 
Commission under section 71 of the Colombo Port City economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021, read with sections 52 
and 53 of that act.
 Ranil WickRemesinghe,
 Minister of investment Promotion.
Colombo.
4th august, 2023.
Regulations
 1. these regulations may be cited as the Colombo Port City (guidelines on the grant of exemptions or incentives to 
businesses of strategic importance) regulations, No. 2 of 2023.
 2. an authorised person engaged in business in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City that makes an 
investment to lease and develop a plot of land within the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City which satisfies any one 
of the following criteria shall be designated as a Primary business of strategic importance:-

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.08.2023
2a
 
 (a) to make an investment of a minimum of usd one hundred million per plot of land or a pro-rated investment 
in a subdivided plot of land according to the Colombo Port City (development Control) regulations; or
 (b) to make an investment of a minimum of USD twenty-five million in the plots of land for the Marina or Social 
infrastructure.
 3. (1) the businesses designated as Primary businesses of strategic importance shall be entitled to the exemptions or 
incentives specified in the following schemes:-
 (a) (i) exemptions from, or incentives under, the enactments set out in schedule ii to the act, for a period of 
twenty-five years from the date of publication of an Order in the Gazette in terms of sub-section (3) of 
section 53 of the act; and
  (ii) an incentive of 50% of the prevailing corporate tax rate applicable for the respective year of assessment 
under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 from all gains and profits of such Primary Businesses of 
Strategic Importance, for a period of ten years following the expiry of the period of twenty-five years 
specified in item (i); or
 (b) (i) an incentive of an enhanced capital allowance of 300% of the expenses incurred on depreciable assets, 
other than intangible assets used within the area of authority of the Colombo Port City during a year 
of assessment. the capital allowance will be computed in accordance with the fourth schedule to the 
inland revenue act, No. 24 of 2017. Where enhanced capital allowances computed and deducted results 
in unrelieved loss, such unrelieved loss may be deducted for the purposes of calculating the income 
for a year of assessment in any of the succeeding years, but not exceeding forty years from the date of 
publication of an order in the Gazette in terms of subsection (3) of section 53 of the act, and
  (ii) exemptions from, or incentives under, the enactments set out in schedule ii to the act other than the 
Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, for a period of twenty-five years from the date of publication of an 
order in the Gazette in terms of subsection (3) of section 53 of the act.
  (2) a Primary business of strategic importance shall make a choice out of the two exemption or incentive schemes 
specified in item (a) or item (b) of sub-regulation (1) and inform such choice to the Commission. Such choice shall be final 
and shall not be changed.
 4. (1)  an authorised person engaged in business in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City which 
encourages and promotes any one of the business activities specified in sub-regulation (2) and which satisfies any one of the 
criteria specified in sub-regulation (3), shall be designated as a Secondary Business of Strategic Importance.
  (2) the business activities referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows:-
 (a) global and regional economic activity in international trade;
 (b) shipping logistic operations;
 (c) offshore banking and finance;
 (d) information technology;
 (e) business process outsourcing;
 (f) corporate headquarters operations;
 (g) regional distribution operations;
 (h) tourism and other ancillary services;
 (i) innovation; 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.08.2023
3a
PRinTeD a T The DeP aRTmenT OF gOVeRnmenT PRinTing,  sRi lanka.
 (j) entrepreneurship;
 (k) entertainment;
 (l) generation of employment opportunities;
 (m) sustainable development; or
 (n) urban amenity operations in the settlement of a residential community.
 (3)  the criteria referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows:-
 (a) the authorised person or its parent company shall have an annual global revenue of more than USD fifty 
million;
 (b) a minimum of one hundred employees shall be employed within the area of authority of the Colombo Port 
City within five years from the commencement of operations;
 (c) the authorised person shall be a start-up or growth stage business, with an enterprise valuation of at least 
USD five hundred thousand within five years from the date of granting a licence to the authorised person 
under the act; or 
 (d) the authorised person demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commission that the business will contribute to 
the economic and social development in sri lanka, by fostering innovation, knowledge transfer, technology 
transfer, research and development, or generate the impetus for creating an international financial center 
within the area of authority of the Colombo Port City.
 5. the businesses designated as secondary businesses of strategic importance shall be entitled to exemptions from, 
or incentives under, the enactments set out in Schedule II to the Act, for a period of twenty-five years from the date of 
publication of an order in the Gazette in terms of subsection (3) of section 53 of the act.
 6. in order to be entitled to the exemptions or incentives granted under these regulations, an authorised person shall 
be designated as a Primary businesses of strategic importance or secondary businesses of strategic importance within a 
period of two years from the date of publication of these regulations in the Gazette.
 7. the Colombo Port City (guidelines on the grant of exemptions or incentives to businesses of strategic importance) 
regulations, No. 1 of 2023 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2339/32 of July 7, 2023 are hereby rescinded.
 8. in these regulations -
“act” means the Colombo Port City economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021;
“Colombo Port City (development Control) regulations” means the Colombo Port City (development Control) 
regulations published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2334/47 of June 02, 2023;
“Commission” means the Colombo Port City economic Commission established under the act;
“Marina” means the land plots designated for the Marina Commercial land use and Marina facility land use in the 
Colombo Port City (development Control) regulations; and
“social infrastructure” means the land plots designated for education, Cultural and Health Care, and Convention 
Center land use in the Colombo Port City (development Control) regulations.
eog 08 - 0070