

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
TOBACCO TAX (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 9 OF 2004
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 08th October, 2004]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 2004

<!-- page 2 -->

1Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004
2—H 022760–5,950 (08/2004)
Short title .
[Certified on 08th October, 2004]
L.D.—O. 18/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  TOBACCO  TAX  ACT , NO . 8 OF  1999
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Tobacco Tax
(Amendment) Act, No. 9  of 2004.
2. The Tobacco Tax Act, No. 8 of 1999 (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended
in the principal enactment as follows :—
(a) by the repeal of the expression “cigarette
substitute”, wherever that expression occurs in such
enactment ; and
(b) by the substitution for the words “tobacco leaf”,
wherever that words occur in such enactment of the
words “tobacco leaf or beedi tobacco”.
3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 5, and shall have the effect as
section 5
A  of the principal enactment:—
5A . (1) No person, shall import beedi
tobacco, unless he is a holder of a licence issued
on that behalf, by the Commissioner General
of Excise.
(2) Every application for a licence to import
beedi tobacco—
(a) shall be made to the Commissioner-
General of Excise in such form as may
be prescribed ;
(b) shall be accompanied by an
application fee of the prescribed
amount.
General
Amendment
to Act, No. 8
of 1999.
Insertion of new
section 5
A  to the
principal
enactment.
“Importation
of beedi
tobacco.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004
(3) Every person holding a licence for the
importation of beedi tobacco shall whenever
so required by the Commissioner- General of
Excise, furnish a return containing particulars
of the beedi tobacco imported by him in respect
of any particular period or periods as the case
may be.”.
4. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following  section is substituted therefor :—
7. (1) The Commissioner- General of Excise
or any officer of the Excise Department of a
rank not below that of Inspector or any officer
of the Customs Department of a rank not below
that of Superintendant or any police officer not
below the rank of a Sub-Inspector of Police—
(a) may on the authority of a warrant issued
by a Magistrate, upon information
obtained and after such inquiry as he
thinks necessary having reason to
believe that an offence under this Act
has been or is likely to be committed ;
or
(b) may without a warrant, whenever an
offence under this Act is being or likely
to be, committed, in case where a
search warrant cannot be obtained
without affording the offender an
opportunity of escape or of concealing
evidence of the offence being or likely
to be committed, after recording the
grounds of his belief,
take such steps as may be necessary to—
(i) stop and search any person suspected
of  committing an offence under this
Act ;
Replacement of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment. “Powers of
inspection
with or
without a
warrant.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004
(ii)stop and search any boat, vessel,
vehicle or container in which any
tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedis,
beedi tobacco or pipe tobacco or any
contraband under this Act is being
carried or transported or suspected to
be carried or transported ;
(iii) open and examine any package, parcel
or container found with such person
or carried in such boat, vessel, vehicle
or container ; or
(iv) enter and inspect any factory or
premises in which any tobacco leaf,
cigarettes, cigars, beedis, beedi
tobacco or pipe tobacco is being kept
or stored or suspected to be kept or
stored,
for the purpose of ascertaining whether an
offence under this Act has been or is being
committed or for the purpose of ascertaining
the quantity of the tobacco leaf, cigarettes,
cigars, beedis, beedi tobacco or pipe tobacco
which are or is in such boat, vessel, vehicle,
container factory or premises or of ascertaining
whether or not the tobacco tax, any duty payable
in terms of the Excise (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 8 of 1994, customs duty or any other tax
has been paid or is payable thereon or of
verifying the accuracy of any return or any
declaration furnished to the Commissioner-
General of Excise under this Act or of examining
any books or documents relating to such
tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars, beedis, beedi
tobacco or pipe tobacco as the case may be.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004
(2) Any officer referred to in subsection (1)
may, in the exercise of the powers conferred on
him by that subsection—
(a) seize any contraband in possession of
such person, carried or transported in
any such boat, vessel, vehicle or
container, or kept or stored in such
factory or premises ;
(b) seize any document in the possession
of any such person, carried in any such
boat, vessel, vehicle or container or
kept or stored in any factory or
premises, which may be produced as
evidence of such offence ;
(c) arrest and detain any person for
committing an offence under this Act,
if such person is in possession of
contraband or if he is in control of any
boat, vessel, vehicle or container used
in the commission of an offence under
this Act ;
(d) seize any boat, vessel, vehicle,
container or any other article or
equipment which appears to such
officer to have been or being used in
the commission of the offence or
which may be produced as evidence
of such offence.
(3) Every officer referred to in subsection
(1), shall be deemed to be a Peace Officer, within
the meaning and for the purposes of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004
(4) Every person who resists or obstructs an
officer referred to in subsections (1) and (2), in
the exercise by such officer of the powers
conferred on him by those subsections, shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.
For the purposes of this section “contraband”
means any tobacco leaf, cigarettes, cigars,
beedis, beedi tobacco or pipe tobacco on which
tobacco tax or any other duty has not been
levied.”.
5. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “beedis, cigarette
substitute or pipe tobacco” of the words “beedis, beedi
tobacco or pipe tobacco”.
6. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “beedis, cigarette
substitute or pipe tobacco” of the words “beedis, beedi
tobacco or pipe tobacco”.
7. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :–
(i) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “beedis, cigarette substitute or pipe
tobacco” of the words “beedis, beedi tobacco  or
pipe tobacco”;
(ii) in subsection (6) of that section by the substitution
for the words, “for a sum of money equal to not less
than one fifth of the maximum fine imposable for
such offence.” of the words “for a sum of money not
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees.”;
(iii) in subsection (7) of that section—
(a) by the substitution for the words “beedis,
cigarette substitute or pipe tobacco” of the
words “beedis, beedi tobacco or pipe
tobacco”;
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 13 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 15 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004
(b) by the substitution for the words and figures
“shall cause the same to be sold by public
auction and the proceeds of such sales disposed
of as provided for in section 17.”, of the words,
“shall cause the same to be destroyed.”.
8. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that section and
substitution therefor of the following paragraph :–
“(b) the proceeds of sale of the articles and vehicles
forfeited under subsection (2) of section 15
excluding the sale of any tobacco leaf, cigarettes,
cigars, beedis, beedi tobacco or pipe tobacco.”.
9. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “beedi”, of the following new definition :–
“ “beedi tobacco” means tobacco used for manufacturing
beedi;”.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 24 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2004
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.