

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2317$67 - 2023 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023'02'02
No. 2317/67  -  thursday,   february  02,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6198 - 286 (02/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. d. b. 21/1978(X)(d)
ThE  uNIvERSITIES  ACT, No. 16 Of 1978
Order under Section 25A
by virtue of the powers vested in me by section 25a of the universities act, No. 16 of 1978, I, dr. a. d. susil Premajayantha, 
the Minister of education, having obtained a report under section 70c of the aforesaid act, in respect of the International 
College of business and technology Limited (ICbt), a company incorporated in sri Lanka under the Companies act, No. 7 
of 2007 and bearing registration Number Pb 1437, being recognized as a degree awarding Institute, do by this Order and 
subject to the conditions specified in Schedule I hereto, recognise the branch located at No. 363, D. S. Senanayake Street, 
Kandy (Kandy branch) of International College of business and technology Limited, as a degree awarding Institute for the 
purpose of developing higher education therein, leading to the award of the degrees specified in Column I of the Schedule II 
hereto, of which the abbreviation is set out in the corresponding entry in Column II of the schedule II hereto, for the purpose 
of developing higher education therein:-
sCheduLe I
C
onditions
 1. International College of business and technology Limited (ICbt) – Kandy branch, shall conduct the degree 
programmes relevant to the degrees specified in Schedule II hereto, only at No. 363, D. S. Senanayake Street, Kandy, 
sri Lanka.
 2. International College of business and technology Limited (ICbt) – Kandy branch, is recognised to offer the degrees 
specified in Schedule II hereto, Subject to the five (5) year re-review conducted by the Specified Authority.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2023
2a
 3. International College of business and technology Limited (ICbt) – Kandy branch, shall, when admitting students 
for the degree programme relevant to the degree specified in Schedule II hereto in respect of the Bachelor of Business 
Management honours, complete with a minimum of 120 credits (sLQf Level 6), adhere to the minimum entry 
qualifications of –
 (a) three (3) ‘simple passes’ (s) in Commerce subject stream in one and the same sitting at the GCe (advanced 
Level) examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka or equivalent; or
 (b) three (3) ‘simple passes’ (s) in any subject stream in one and the same sitting at the GCe (advanced Level) 
examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka or equivalent with a bridging 
course approved by the Specified Authority.
 4.  International College of business and technology Limited (ICbt) – Kandy branch, shall, when admitting students 
for the degree programme relevant to the degree specified in Schedule II hereto in respect of the Bachelor of Science  
honours in software engineering, complete with a minimum of 120 credits (sLQf Level 6), adhere to the minimum 
entry qualifications of –
 (a) three (3) ‘simple passes’ (s) in Physical science subject stream in one and the same sitting at the GCe 
(advanced Level) examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka or equivalent; or
 (b) three (3) ‘simple passes’ (s) in any subject stream in one and the same sitting at the GCe (advanced Level) 
examination conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka or equivalent with a bridging 
course approved by the Specified Authority.
sCheduLe II
Column I
Degree
Column II
Abbreviation to the Degree
bachelor of business Management honours bbM hons
bachelor of science (honours) in software engineering bsc hons (software engineering)
 
 dr. A. d. susil PremAjAyAnthA (m.P.),
 Minister of education.
Colombo,
30th January, 2023.
eOG 02-0005
 
Printed At the dePArtment oF GoVernment PrintinG,  sri lAnKA.