

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'17
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.08.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2032$30 - 2017 wf.daia;= ui 17 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'08'17
No. 2032/30 -  THURSDAY  AUGUST  17,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
UV A   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute for Council Secretariat Staff of  the Provincial Council of  Uva Province Bearing No. 3 of 2017
THE above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the date of 27th July, 2017 has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of  the Uva Province on the date of 09th August, 2017 with effect from 01st of August, 2017 and
which is here by published for the notification of the public.
R. A. H. A. S
AMARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King's Street,
Badulla,
10th August  2017.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  3653 — 17  (08/2017)
STATUTE   FOR   COUNCIL   SECRETARIAT   STAFF   OF  THE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  UV A
PROVINCE  BEARING   No. 3 OF 2017
Statute for establishing the council secretariat staff of the provincial Council of  Uva province, for
recruiting individuals those who appointed to it, regulating their service and  internal administrative
conditions, for cancelling the statute of the provincial Council (Council secretariat staff) bearing No. 7 of
1990 and connected and consequential affairs with the same.
It is enacted  thus, by the Uva provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This statute is called as ''Statute for council secretariat staff of the provincial council of Uva
province bearing No. 3 of 2017'' and it is empowered from the date of approval of  the Governor for Uva
province.
2. A secretariat (called as ''Council Secretariat'' hereinafter) would be established in a decided
portion.
Introduction.
Short name and
effective date.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'17
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.08.2017
2A
3. There shall be a secretary in the Secretariat of the provincial council.
(i)  The secretary would be appointed by the Governor and would be in the post till being
with well behavior under rules and regulations of sub-sections of this statute ;
(ii) Under the above Section (i), a senior office of the Sri Lanka administrative Service and
holds a post in  the public Service or provincial public Service ;
(iii) The Secretary post is a designation entitled for pension. And the ordinance of widow
and orphan pension scheme should be influenced with the secretary post for retirement
or pension;
(iv) The post is entitled for a salary, allowance and benefits relevant to  the rank and grade
of the Secretary and additionally, he/she should be paid with allowances paid for the
staff of the council Secretariat in accordance with the sub - section 10 (ii) of the this
statute. lt shall be an expense for the fund of the council ;
(v) During the period of holding the Secretary post no reductions could be done from the
salary or facilities provided;
(vi) The Secretary post would be vacated,
(a) Because of death, or
(b) Because of resigning by sending a letter to the Governor, or
(c) Because of going on transter to another post of the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service on the own wish or ;
(d) Because of retirement due to completing the age of 55 or anytime thereafter nor
completing the age of sixty or;
(e) Because of sickness or physical or mental inefficiency nor disciplinary action, or;
(f) Because of imprisonment due to the judgment declared by a court. Secretary post
would not be vacated on any other than the above reasons.
(vii) In any occasion the Secretary is unable to carry- out his/ her duties of  the post
temporarily, due to sickness or any other inefficiency nor because of emigration from the
island, another senior officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service could be appointed
to carry -out duties instead of the Secretary by the Governor in accordance with regulation
of the section 3 (1) above on performing basic.
4.(i) A staff advisory committee should be established, mentioned as ''advisory commitee''
hereinafter with individuals mentioned below;
(ii) (a)The chairman of  the provincial council;
(b) The chief minister of the provincial council or a   member of  the provincial council nominated
by the chief minister;
(c) The opposition leader of the provincial council or a  member of  the provincial council
nominated by him.
Council
Secretary.
Staff advisory
committee.
Composition of
the advisory
committee.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'17
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.08.2017
The chief Secretary or a representative of him. The Secretary.
(iii) The chairman and Secretary of  the council ought to be the chairman and Secretary of the
advisory committee.
(iv) Minimum three members including the chairman of the advisory committee must be present
in an advisory committee meeting.
5. (i) Advising and recommending for the identification of new posts;
  (ii)Deciding facilities and benefits those should be provided to the secretariat staff.
(iii) submitting recommendations  to the Governor, while deciding allowances ought to be paid for
members of the staff ;
(iv) Deciding internal conditions for the secretariat staff should be done by the advisory committee.
6. (i) The cadre of the council secretariat staff should be according to the approval of the department
of mana ment service.
(ii) The council secretariat staff shall be consisted with officers occupied in the island - wide
service and provincial public service;
(iii) The cadre of employees could be changed on the recommendation of the staff advisory
committee and the chief secretary, and with the approval of the department of management
service ;
(iv) From the date of operation of this statute, the officers and  employees who occupied with the
service of the secretariat staff are considered as officers and employees of the secretariat staff
on their written consent and under this statute. Filling the current and future vacancies can
by done by the secretary who empowered to do so regarding with minor employees and other
ranks on the request of the secretary and forwarded by the chief secretary to the authorized
officer;
(v) The period of service in the council secretariat should be considered as the period of
service in the proviod of service in the provincial pubilc service. And also, each and every
facilities and benefits entitled for the other officers of Uva provincial should be proviedeal.
(vi) officers and employees being considered as council secretariat staff should not be impaired
for the seniority of officers and employees of provincial public service those who are in the
same or equal or equal posts, in accordance with the section (iv) above of this statute.
performing services joined with this staff should not be a barrier to get a promotion or to sit
for such examinations nor promotions of the current post and to sit for such examinations.
of the council secretariat should be bound with the following conditions.
(a) The secretariat staff is bound to protect secrecy of duties and to be responsible for its duties;
(b) Must perform duties full impartially.
(c) Needed occasions the staff is bound to perform duties till the end of provincial council
meetings;
(d) Officers and employees should be with a suitable dress as to not damage the respect of the
council, while performing duties therein during the time of provincial council meetings;
(e) dealing with Hon. Members of  the provincial council, well manners should be protected.
Quorum.
Task of the
advisory
committee.
Council
Secretariat staff.
Conditions of
Administrative.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'17
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.08.2017
4A
7. 1. Posts of officers/ employees of  the secretariat staff shall be vacated on reasons below.
(a) Due to sending on retirement;
(b) Due to obtaining transfers ;
(c) Due to resigning ;
(d) Due to dismissing on disciplinary action ;
(e) Due to imprisonment declared as a judgment by a court ;
(f) Due to death.
8. ldentifying new posts those needed for a very  good administration and obtaining approval of
the department of management service for that, should be done by the secretary on the
recommendation of the secretariat advisory committee.
9. (i) (a)if, a person who is holding a post of the Uva provincial public service ought to be transferred
into the secretariat staff, an earlier written consent of  the secretary should be obtained.
   (b) A person who appointed or transferred to the secretariat staff on the request the secretariat
without the earlier written consent of the secretary.
     (ii) However, the secretary cannot ob ject normally to release such an officer, unless on the reasons
below.
(a) In an occasion that his/her service in the secretariat comes under an agreement.
(b) Even though his/her service not comes under an agreement, he/she has been trained specially
by the secretariat, to perform duties in the secretariat.
(c) In an occasion when the secretary is considering that the releasing of such an officer would
be effected adversely while carrying-out affairs of the secretariat.
(d) While the secretary recommending that it is suitable to transfer a particular officer because of
an administrative cause, officers and employees could be transferred through the chief secretary.
(e) The officers/imployees who need transfers can apply for annual transfers on their own wish.
(f) Conditions of transfers enacted on the policy of annual transfers are not compulsory for the
secretariat staff.
(g) Officers recruited for posts those approved only for the secretariat could not be sent on
transfers.
10. (i) Salary and other allowances for the staff ought to be paid from the fund of the council.
(ii) For officers and employees those who are appointed to the council secretariat and till they
being in the service of the secretariat, an extra allowance of a certain percentage of their basic
salary as decided, in addition to the salary and allowances paid for Uva provincial public
servants, wth the recommendation of the staff advisory committee and on the approval of the
Governor.
Vacation of
posts.
Creating new
posts.
Transfers.
Salary and the
allowances of the
staff

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'17
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.08.2017
11. The authorized person for discipline should be authorized respectively by the Public Service
Commission and the Governor of the province, as the council secretariat staff is being consistence with
public service officers and provincial public service officers and employees.
12. The council secretariat staff has the determination for retirement at any time after completing
the age of 55 years or completing the age of 60 years and could be determined by a request made at least six
(06) months earlier than the date expecting to go on pension.
13. An estimate relevant to expenses of the council secretariat for each year should be prepared by
the secretary and to be submitted to the chief secretary in accordance with the fund allocated to the council
secretariat through the annual financial statement.
14. Auditing should be occurred under provisions of the provincial council Act bearing No. 42 of
1987.
15. The constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, rules and regulations of the
establishment code, regulations of the Uva provincial disciplinary code, financial regulations of the Uva
province, regulations enacted already by the Governor, Chief Secreraty and the Uva Provincial Public
Service Commission and could be enacted in future ought to be relevant to the council secretariat staff.
16. Definition -
''Provincial Council" - the Uva provincial council
''Governor" - the Governor of Uva province
''Chief Minister" - the chief minister of Uva province
''Chairman" - the Chairman of the Uva provincial council
''Chief Secretary" - the chief secretary of the Uva province
''Secretary" - the secretary of the council secretariat
''Advisory Committee" - the advisory committeee for the staff
''Secretariat" - the secretariat of the Uva provinial council
''Secretariat staff" - the  staff of the Uva provincial council secretariat.
17. The statute of the provincial council secretariat staff bearing No. 07 of 1990 would be cancelled
from the date of operation of this statute and all activities implemented in accordance with the same up-to
now would not be treated as invalid and should be treated as implemented according to this statute.
18. in the event of any inconsistency in between the Sinhala and Tamil text of this statute, Sinhala
shall prevail.
08-1084
Disciplinary
actions.
Retirement of
the staff
Finance
Auditing
General
regulations and
orders.
Definitions
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Prevailing of the
sinhala text