

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1227
1227
wxl 1"818 - 2013 cQ,s 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'07'05
No. 1,818 – FRIDAY JULY 05, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1230
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1237
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th July, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th July,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note.—  (i) Galhinna Jamiathul Faththah Arabic College  (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of May 10 , 2013.
(ii) Warehouse Projects   (Incorporation)  Bill is published  as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of May 10, 2013.
(iii) The Seretse Khama  Foundation  Trust (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of May 10 , 2013.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1228
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1229
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1230
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
TRINCOMALEE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th August, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th June, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Mutur Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
Koddiyar West Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Koddiyar Pattu Division Trincomalee.
07–03
––––––––––––––––––
ANNOUNCEMENT  FOR  CALLING   APPLICATIONS
 Public Service Commission
Limited Recruitment for the Post of Assistant Director (Departmental) in the Executive Grade in the
Small Enterprises Development Division of the Ministry  of  Youth  Affairs  and  Skills  Development
APPLICATIONS are invited from the qualified Internal applicants to fill the 14 existing vacancies, in the Post of Assistant Dir ector
(Departmental), in the Small Enterprises Development Division, which is under the purview of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills
Development.
01. Recruitment Procedure.– The selection would be made by calling applications from among the Entrepreneurship Development
Training Officers who are in service at present under the Small Enterprises Development Division and have satisfied the require ments

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1231
mentioned under Section Number 04 of this announcement based on marks obtained at the structured interview in accordance with t he
"Marking Scheme" approved by the Public Service Commission mentioned in para 05.
02. Conditions of the Service.–  Nature of the post. Permanent and pensionable. Applicants shall be subject to the general
conditions enacted to the Public Service appoitnments, the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published on the Gazette
with the No. 1,589/30 and dated 20.02.2009 and the Establishment Code.
The officers who joined the service in English medium should complete the official languages proficiency durng the period of
probation. The Officer who joined in one official langauge will be required to pass in other official language. The other relev ant official
language proficiency should be acquired in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007 and the ammendments to that.
03. Salary Scale .– Salary Code No. : SL 1-2006. [ Salary Scale .– Rs. 22,935 - 10x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555
(Monthly)] Salaries will be paid, in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
04. Qualifications :
(i) Should have been confirmed in the post of Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer.
(ii) Should have completed 10 year active service in the post of Entrepreneurship Development Officer by the date
mentioned in the notification.
(iii) Should have passed the first and second efficiency bar examinations.
(iv) Should have performed a satisfactory period of service during the period of 5 years prior to the qualified date.
05. Structured Interview :
* The number equal to existing vacancies would be recruited from the applicants who obtained the highest marks in the
structured interview.
* The Public Service Commission reserves the right to filling, refrain from filling or filling half of the vacancies.
Title Maximum Marks
01 For the additional experience : 50
* 05 marks for each year of the period of service which comes after the basic
qualification of 10 year period of service.
02 For the additional educational qualifications :2 0
* For a post graduate diploma in respective field, obtained from a recognized 15
university. (Subjects of Management, Economics, Commerce, Business
Administration, Information Technology, Statistic or Agriculture).
* For a diploma/certificates course in Computer Technology, with not less 05
than one year duration, awarded by a recognized institution of the
government.
* For certificate courses in Computer Technology, completed, with not less 03
a six month duration, awarded by the recognized institution of the
government.
03 Creative activities and specific skills :2 5
* 03 marks for each programme which have not been identified yet by 09
the Small Enterprises Development Division and conducted with the
assistance of government and non government organizations and was
benefitted by the entrepreneurs.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1232
Title Maximum Marks
* For the special programmes, such as inter Districts Trade Exchange. 06
(Ex. : Introduce entrepreneurs in Colombo to the floral cultivators in
Nuwara Eliya to expand the marketing, connect the grain cultivators in
Monaragala District to multipurpose co-operative shop in Homagama).
Two marks for each programme.
* Recognize the resources in the area and encourage the entrepreneurs for those 10
enterprises. (Ex. : Direct the small entrepreneurs for export floral  cultivation
which converted into business level, cultivation of leaves for the consumption,
kilo guava cultivation, ponds associated fresh water fish programmes,
indigenous medicinal plant cultivation) 02 marks for each special projects
04 Skills deploy in the interview : 05
100
06. Methodology of Selection.– Applicants who obtained highest marks in the interview and qualified with basic qualifications
would be selected, according to the order of merit. The Public Service Commission reserves the right for the final decision res pective to
the selection, if the same mark has been obtained by the several applicants.
07. Method of Applications.– All the duly filled applications, prepared according to the following specimen form should be sent
to the address Secretary, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development, "Nipunatha Piyasa", No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05, by the registered post to reach on or before 02nd August 2013. "The post of Assistant Director (Departmental)" shou ld be
clearly stated in the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
According to the order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development.
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN  FORM
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (DEPARTMENTAL) IN SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT DIVISION OF THE
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
01. Full Name :––––––––––.
02. Private Address :––––––––––.
03. Official Address :––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
05. Date appointed to the post of Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer :––––––––––.
06. Details of the efficiency bar relevant to the post of Entrepreneurship Development Training Officer :––––––––––.
06.1 Whether the first efficiency bar has got through :––––––––––.
06.2 Whether the second efficiency bar has got through :––––––––––.
I assure the above mentioned details are true.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1233
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Women Police Constable
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Recruit Women Police Constable in the Sri Lanka Police
Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by Registered post to
the abovementioned address to reach on or before 20.09.2013 and
the applied post should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no application will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary scale.–
Rs. 171,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 - 17 x 2,880 - Rs. 254,100.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
(a) Arduous duty allowances Rs. 2,000
(b) Combined allowances :
Rs.  
(1) For performing duties in North and 10,500
East areas
(2) For performance duties in other areas 8,400
(c) Free transport facilities.
(d) Free medical facilities to officers (Financial assistance can
be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country.)
(e)  All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(f)  Facilities to imporve skill and talents in sports.
(g) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age limits. – The age should be between 18 and 28
years as at closing date of applications as per the
Gazette Notification.
(b) Educational qualifications :
Should have passed 06 subjects in the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than 2 sittings including
Mathematics and Medium Language. Those who have
passed on two occasions should have passed 5
subjects on the first occasion.
Note.– 01. According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the
number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L) both
passes in science subjects number 41 and 44 will
be treated as one subject and both passes in
Mathematics number 42 and 45 will be treated as
one subject.
Note 02. Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note 03. Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G . C. E. (O/L) passes in any of these subjects
will not be computed as a pass in the G . C. E.
(O/L) examination.
(c) Physical Requirements :
* Height : 5 feet, 02 inches (minimum).
Recommendation of the Head of the Department
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. is under the service of this Department and performed a satisfa ctory service
during the period of 05 years, which closes to the date of applications are being called and has earned all the increments during the closest
05 years and no any disciplinary against action, except advises and the provided information in No. 01 to 06 in the application  form are
true and correct, in accordance with her/his personal file.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department,
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––.
07–61
––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1234
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided they have skills
in sports or have achieved best performance in sports
at National level or they have earned reputation for
Sri Lanka by participating in an International
competition.
(d) Visual Requirements .– Vision should not be less than
6/12 with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye
and 6/18 with the other eye it  will be accepted. Colour
vision should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles
or contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other Qualifications :
Applicants should be unmarried. (Divorce will be
considered as married).
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will have to
pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department
of Police. Only those who have passed this test must also get
through the physical fitness test or endurance test.
1,000 meters    5 minutes         14 seconds
* Those who are successful in the physical fitness or
endurance test will be called for final interview. Only
those who score 40% or more will be called for the written
test.
* The written test consists of two question papers.
* An essay paper ; not less than 500 words within 45
minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper  - 1 hour.
6. Medical Test.– Candidates who are selected according to the
priority and merit test will have to get through medical test prior to
their appointment. Unsuccessful candidate will be rejected.
7. Background Inquiries  :
(a) In view of confirm the conduct of the applicant ; inquiries
will be made on the conduct of the applicant, close
relations and friends. Applicants with bad conduct will
not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they entered to the
service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test of secondary level conducted by the
Official Language Department.
* The salary increments of those who fail to pass the
second official language within 5 years from the date of
appointment will be deferred until a pass is obtained.
9. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows’/Widowers/
and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a three years recruit period.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the government.
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code V olume I and II, Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders and any other orders that may be
issued by the Inspector General of Police or by the
Government from time to time.
(d) Prior to their confirmation every officer will be required
to pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found to
be unfit for Poilce duties will be liable for removal from
the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of the
Inspector General of Police. However in terms of P. G . II
No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and I. G’s Circular No. 1952/
2006 of 19.10.2006 and circular (Amended) dated
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry showing special
reasons and with permission of Inspector General of
Police.
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a recruit period of 03 years in the Police
Department and if they wish to resign from service before
their recruit is over, they should sign an agreement of
consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the
time of tendering their resignation, any amount which
was incurred on the training and uniforms etc. together
with any other prescribed payments. Director of Police

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1235
Training College will decide it having calculated dues from
the applicants. The acceptance of resignation should
conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I of the
Establishment Code 1985.
(g) Immediately after recruit Women Police Constables have
commenced their training at the Police Training College,
they should subscribe affirmation/Oath to the effect that
they comply with the Police Code of conduct in terms of
the I. G . P.’s Circular No. 1693/2003.
(h) Immediately after recruit Women Police Constables have
commencement their training at the Police College, they
should subscribe the Oath of allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the IGP’s Circular No. 1804/2004.
(i) Recruit Women Police Constables who have been
confirmed in the post will have opportunities for
promotions in terms of the approved scheme of
promotions of the Police Department.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to the posts in the Public Service
published in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their application (Originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth certificate,
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (Obtained from
persons who are not related),
(iii) Certificate in substantiating educational qualifications,
(iv) Certificates in substantiating any outstanding sports or
other Extra curricular activities,
(v) A photocopy of certificates of services (if available),
(vi) A photocopy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forwarded their applications through the Heads of their
respective departments and they must be accompanied
with a certificate stating that the officer can be released,
if selected. The applicants who are not adhere to the
above, their applications will be rejected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for to the
address given in paragraph 2 and under no circumstances
should applications be handed over personally to any
officer in the Department.
14. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
N. K. I
LLANGAKOON ,
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT
POST OF WOMEN POLICE CONSTABLE
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant’s birth certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should be attached)
03. Father’s name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
(d) Police station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) The electorate to which the permanent address belongs :
:–––––––––.
(f) Grama Niladari’s Division to which permanent address
belongs :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––.
(g) Telephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration :–––––.
(If by registration attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth state the place of birth :
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant’s father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant’s paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of birth :–––––––––.
(Copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
Age (as at the closing date of application as stated in the
Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1236
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
11. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
12. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of the armed forces :––––––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications ? :–––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
15. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service  (If so give reference) :
––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police service before ? (If so, under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? give
details) :––––––––––.
16. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
17. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed Service ?
:–––––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or fake. I am aware that I am liable for immediate
termination of my service in the Police Department at any time
even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
07–62
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1237
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 12th August, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
19th June, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Matara Akuressa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Weligam Koralaya Akuressa Division General, District Secretariat,  Matara
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Weligam Koralaya and Births and General, District Secretariat, Matara
Deaths of Midigama Division.
07–176
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Candidates to follow the Full Time (Internal)
Course of Post Graduate Diploma in Education in
Academic Year – 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited for selection for the study of one year
full time (Internal) Post Graduate Diploma in Education Course
during the academic year 2014.
02. This course will be held in Colombo, Peradeniya and Jaffna
Universities.
03. Language mediums conducted in each University are indicated
below:
University of Colombo - Sinhala Medium and Tamil
Medium
University of Peradeniya - Sinhala Medium
University of Jaffna - Tamil Medium
Applications for the Course can be made only in one medium.
04. Every candidate should establish that he/she is holding the
following qualifications:
(i) Should be a citizen of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should not be more than 50 years of age as on 05.08.2013.
(iii) Should be physically and mentally in good health and
having a good character.
(iv) Should be a Graduate from a recognized University.
(v) Should have obtained a permanent appointment and
serving in a relevant post  belonging to the following
services:
(a) Sri Lanka teacher's Service,
Sri Lanka private school teacher's Service,
Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service,
(b) Sri Lanka Principals' Service,
(c) Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service
(d) Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service,
(vi) Should have completed  service for a period of one year in
a post in the services indicated at Para. 04 (v) as on
05.08.2013 after obtaining the Degree.
Note:
1. Teachers of National Diploma in Teaching will be
qualified to apply   only if they have completed the
five years compulsory period of service according
to the bond  as at 05.08.2013
2. Teachers who are on study leave and serving under a
bond will be qualified to apply only if they have
completed the compulsory period of service

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1238
indicated in the bonds as on 05.08.2013 or have
completed at least five (5) years out of the period.
3. Those having Bachelor of Education Degree will not
be eligible to apply for the study of this course.
05. 5.1 Method of Selection :
(i) Every candidate should appear for a written
examination.
(ii) Candidates will be called for the interview according to
the order of marks obtained by them at the written
examination and the number to be called for the
interview will be three times the number of candidates
to be admitted for the Course.
(iii) Marks will be allocated at the interview for the period
of service in the post of the service the candidate is
belonging to indicated at 4 (v) in the Gazette
Notification. Marks will be allocated at the rate of 04
marks for each year of service; maximum number of
marks granted will be 40. Period of service of a candidate
will be calculated from the date he/she assumed duties
in the post.
(iv) The total of the marks obtained at the written
examination and the marks for the period of service
will be treated as the final marks and the selection for
the course will be made according to the order of such
marks.
(v) If disabled candidates have applied for the course 1%
of the number of candidates selected will be reserved
for them.
(vi) The number of candidates to be selected for the Course
will be decided according to the accommodation
available in each University.
5.2 Written Examination :
(i) The written examination for selection conducted by
the Commissioner General of Examinations will be held
in Sinhala and Tamil Languages in Colombo and Jaffna.
(ii) Candidates may appear for the examination at once of
the two centers indicated above preferred by them and
in a medium they prefer.
(iii) Candidates should act in accordance with the rules and
regulations published by the Commissioner General of
Examination relating to the examination.
(iv) Written examination will consist of two question
papers:
(a) General Knowledge – Question Paper on Current
Affairs, General Knowledge, Educational
Information and problems (Time 01 hours);
(b) Aptitude Test – Question Paper on Language
ability, comprehension, Logic, Arithmetical skills
(Time 01 hour 30 minutes)
5.3 Interview :
(i) At the interview candidates should establish that they
are qualified to follow the Course under Para. 04 in the
Gazette Notification.
(ii) Candidates should submit to the Interview Board the
documents required to establish their period of service
in the post/ posts relevant at Para. 4 (v) in the Gazette
Notification. Specially the date of assuming duties in
the Post should be established at the interview, It will
be helpful for the candidate in obtaining the marks
assigned for the period of service.
(iii)  Teachers who apply for the course from Pirivenas and
approved Private Schools should submit a statement
at interview obtained from The Manager/Administrative
Board Manager certified by him as follows:
(a) That the teacher will be released for the Course;
(b) That salaries will be paid to the teachers during the
period of study of the course;
(c) That the teacher will be re-deployed at the end of
the Course;
(d) That a request will not be made for a Substitute
teacher;
(e) That the duties of the teacher will be distributed
among the approved teaching staff of the school.
06. Method for submission of Applications  :
(i) Applications should be prepared by using both sides
of A4 size Paper in conformity with the given specimen
form.
(ii) Regarding applications made for candidates who are
visually impaired/hearing impaired/having other special
needs the words “An applicant Visually Impaired/
Hearing Impaired/having other Special Needs” should
be written in red on the top left hand corner of such
applications.
(iii) Payment of Examination Fees.– As examination fees a
sum of Rs.750 should be paid at the nearest Post Office
and the receipt obtained should be affixed in the cage
provided for in the application. Post Master General
has been notified by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to make provisions for the issue of this
receipt at all Post Offices from 05.07.2013 up to
05.08.2013.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1239
(iv) Submission of Applications :
(a) The words 'Post Graduate Diploma in Education
(Internal) Full Time Course 2014' should be written
on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing
the application.
(b) Applications should be sent under registered post
to be received on or before 05.08.2013 addressed
to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Evaluation and
Testing Service, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(c) A copy of the application should be handed over
to the personal file of the applicant. If the applicant
is selected to follow the course it will be useful to
obtain study leave.
(v) Time Table and the Admission Cards will be posted to
the candidates and if any candidate does not receive his
Admission Card at least 07 days before the date of the
examination he/ she should inform accordingly to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla along with
the following information:
(a) Name of examination:
(b) Candidate's name in full:
(c) Address :
(d) Post Office where fees were paid and receipt No:
(e) Date of posting the application:
(f) Post Office of posting the application and Receipt
No:
(vi) Refund of examination fees or transfer of fees for any
other examination will be not be made for any reason
whatsoever.
(vii) Incomplete applications will be rejected without any
notification.
(viii) Every candidate should establish his identity at the
written examination by a valid identity card.
(ix) It will not be allowed to change the University after
selecting candidates for a particular University for
following the Course.
(x) Even after the selection, if it is revealed that a particular
candidate has not fulfilled the requirements according
to the Gazette Notification the selection of such
candidate is liable to be cancelled.
07. Study Leave.– Full pay and study leave will be granted to the
candidates to follow this Course. For this purpose the study leave
of officers in Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service, Sri
Lanka Teacher Educators' Service and those Serving in the staff of
National Schools, Private Schools and Pirivenas will be approved
by the Secretary of the Ministry of Education while the approval
of study leave of other officers should be made by the Provincial
Secretary of Education.
08. Bond.– Candidates who are selected for the Course should
sign a Security Bond with the Secretary to the Ministry of
Education/ Provincial Director of Education that he/ she will after
successfully completing this course serve in the Department for a
compulsory period of service under the Security Bond. The period
of bond will be decided in accordance with the rules and regulations
stipulated in the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
09. If any selected candidate fails to obtain his Diploma
Certificate within the stipulated period without successfully
completing this Course owing to reasons within his control the
salaries and allowances paid to him during the period of study leave
should be fully recovered from him/her.
10. If the work, conduct and attendance of the students are
found to be Unsatisfactory during the period of study of the Course
they will be removed from the Course.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil
or English Text of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
S. M. G
OTABAY A JAY ARATHNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla
05th July, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
S
ELECTION OF CANDIDATES TO FOLLOW THE FULL TIME (INTERNAL)
COURSE OF POST GRADUA TE DIPLOMA IN EDUCATION IN
ACADEMIC YEAR 2014
For Office Use
Medium Examination Center University applied
applied for applied (Colombo/Jaffna/
(Sinhala/ (Colombo/Jaffna) Peradeniya)
Tamil)
01.
02.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1240
01. (i) Name with initials in English Capital letters (Surname
first)  Rev. / Mr. / Mrs. / Miss :––––––––––.
Example: Mr. Silva, A.B.C.
(ii) Name in full (In English Capital letters) :––––––––––.
02. (i) ( a) Official address (In English Capital letters) :–––––––.
(b) Official Telephone Number :––––––––––.
(ii) ( a) Private address (In English Capital letters) :–––––––.
(b) Private Telephone Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Location of school/ Institute serving (In English Capital
letters):-
Province District Zone
(iv) Nature of Institute (Govt.School/ Private School/Pirivena/
Other) :––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(ii) Age as on 05.08.2013:
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
 (iii) Gender :––––––––––.
04. Details of Degree:
Degree Period Y ear Date Degree Nature Institute/ Degree
of study of of su bjects of the Univer- (Internal/
of course passing validity pass sity External)
in the degree of (General/
Univer- degree Class)
sity
(From ....
To......)
05. (i) ( a) Date of posting to the Sri Lanka Teacher service :
––––––––––.
(b) Date of assuming duties in the Sri Lanka Teacher
service :––––––––––.
   (c) Current designation :––––––––––.
    (ii) ( a) Date of posting to the Sri Lanka Principles service /
Sri Lanka Teacher Educator service / Sri Lanka
Education Administration service :––––––––––.
  (b) Date of assuming duties in the Sri Lanka Principles
service / Sri Lanka Teacher  Educator service / Sri
Lanka Education Administration service:-
 (iii) Period of service in a post in Sri Lanka Teacher’s service/
Sri Lanka principles service/ Sri Lanka Teacher Educator
service/ Sri Lanka Education Administration service on
05.08.2013 after obtaining the Degree:-
 (iv) Period of service in a post in Sri Lanka Teacher’s Service/
Sri Lanka Principals service /  Sri Lanka Teacher Educator
Service  / Sri Lanka Education Administration Service  on
05.08.2013:-
06. (i) Details of Professional Training :
Institute of Course Duration of study of course
studying the (Subject in the Institute
course (Teacher's area)
College NCOE or
other) From                  To
07. Details of study leave obtained:
Reason for Duration of the Bond Balance period ahead
study leave From            To for completion of
Bond
Note.– Period of study of the National Diploma in Teaching in a
National College of Education will not be treated as study
leave
08. Whether any disciplinary action is pending against candidate?
(Yes/No) :––––––––––.
If so, details, should be given :––––––––––.
09.
Receipt No &  Date :––––––––.
Name of the Post/Sub Post
Receipt obtained for office :––––––––.
payment of fees To be
affixed here I  certify that a sum of Rs.750 in
figures was paid.
––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate
10 Candidate’s Declaration:
 I hereby certify that all details indicated in this application are
true and correct and I am eligible to study this Course under
paragraph 04 in Gazette Notification dated 05.07.2013 and I will

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1241
abide by the rules and regulations in the Examination Act for
candidates and also, I have affixed hereto a valid receipt for payment
of the prescribed examination fees.
–––––––––––––,
Candidate’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
11. Recommendation relating to release from the Institute for the
Course:
(Principal/ President NCoE/ Manager/ Manager Administrative
Board or Head of Institute):
     If the above candidate is selected for the study of this Course
he/she can be released/ cannot be released in consideration of the
requirement of the study of a Professional Course.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Principal/Head of Institute
and Official Frank.
Date :––––––––––.
12. Recommendation of   the Zonal Director of Education :
If the above candidate is selected for the study of this Course
he/she can be released.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Zonal Director of Education
and official Frank.
Date :––––––––––.
07–21/2
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers’ Colleges  - 2013/2014
APPLICA TIONS are invited from teachers who posses the
following qualifications to follow the Teacher Education Training
Courses in Government Teachers’ Colleges.
1.1. Untrained teachers serving in Government Schools who
have obtained their formal appointments signed by the
Secretary of Public Service Commission, the Secretary
of Education Service Committee or by the Secretary of
the Provincial Public Service Commission.
1.2. T eachers who have obtained appointments approved by
the Provincial Director of Education and included in the
list of names of Private Schools certified by the Director
of Private Schools in the Ministry of Education.
1.3. Pirivena Teachers who have obtained appointments
approved by the Provincial Director of Education and
registered in the Pirivena Education Branch of the
Ministry of Education.
1.4. Teachers who have been certified by the relevant Teacher
Training Authorities as having not completed their course
of studies in Distance Training, Princett or Non-graduate
Weekend Teacher Training Programme.
02. Special Instructions :
2.1 Selections will be made according to the vacancies existing
in Teachers’ Colleges and based on the seniority in
assuming duties in the school. Teachers will not be able
to get their promotion in the teacher service without due
professional qualifications since it will affect the quality
education development.  In consideration of all these facts
all untrained teachers are expected to complete their
training.
2.2 This course will be conducted as a two year residential
training and in instances where residential facilities are
not available, permission will be granted to reside within
the vicinity of the Teachers’ College after obtaining
written approval from the Principal.
2.3 It will not be possible to provide the nearest Teachers’
College as the conducting of the course in the respective
Teachers’ Colleges will be decided based on the facilities
available in Teachers’ Colleges.
2.4 During the period of undergoing training in the Teachers’
College, trainees should refrain from following any other
courses or to appear for examinations. Disciplinary action
will be taken after conducting a formal investigation relating
to the information received in this regard and those who
leave the courses.
2.5 This course is not applicable for the following teachers :
(a) the teachers already in the Teachers’ Colleges or
completed a teacher education training course at a
Teachers’ College,
(b) Appointment of Graduate Trainee Teachers or
Graduate Management Assistants or teachers who
have an appointment equivalent to a graduate
appointment,
(c) Teachers who have not fulfilled the qualification
mentioned in Item No. 07 in this notification,
Necessary action will be taken for the teachers who
have admitted to this teacher training course without
the qualifications according to the above instructions,
by cancelling the teacher training course while training
or by cancelling the teacher training certificate if after
the completion of the teacher training course.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1242
2.6 Every candidate should submit the following documents
at the date of registration to the teacher training course :
(a) Duly completed Bond,
(b) A copy of the Agreement signed between the
government or the board of management to serve for
05 years continuously in the schools appointed after
the completion of the teacher training course,
2.7 It is compulsory for the teachers appointed under the
District Service basis after the month of April 1982, to
serve in the Districts of first appointment school after
the completion of the teacher training course.
2.8 No permission is given to the teacher trainees to withdraw
from the teacher training course. If so, a nominal fee with
an additional charge should be charged and credited to the
government account to cover the expenses of the trainee
during the training period.
03. (i) Trainees whose general conduct found to be inconsistent
with college discipline and diligence in studies is not up
to the standard expected by the Principal of the Teachers’
College are liable to be discontinued from pursuing their
training and will be sent back to their schools. Any trainee
who does not have 80% attendance and participation for
the course will not be eligible to sit the Teachers’ College
Final Examination. However, the Secretary, Education
reserves the right to make final decision related to this
matter.
(ii) Leave.– Two years full-pay study leave will be granted
for institutional training. All trainees are required to
devote this two year period entirely for their training.
However, under special circumstances a trainee could be
granted a limited number of casual leave only if the
Principal is satisfied with the necessity. It is necessary
that prior approval of the Principal should be obtained
for same. Leave obtained in this manner should not exceed
ten days per year.
A trainee whose progress in studies is found to be unsatisfactory
owing to obtaining of excessive leave is liable to be discontinued
from training and to be sent back to school. Any medical leave taken
should be supported by a Medical Certificate obtained from a
Government Medical Officer.
04. Trained Teacher Certificate will be awarded to those who
successfully complete the internal tests and passing the final external
examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations after the following two year training course.
05. Salary Scale.– In accordance with the amendments made to
the teacher service minute, only trained teachers will be absorbed
to the teacher service on a fixed salary scale.
06. (i) Every candidate will be trained in the subject indicated
in the appointment letter. However, teachers who have
obtained appointments for other subjects can apply
only for the Special Education Course. The teachers
who have been appointed as Government Teachers and
whose subject is not mentioned in the appointment
letter, could apply for training, in one of the subjects
they have passed in the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination. The
candidates are expected to submit a letter approved by
the head of the institution at the interview to say that
they are teaching the relevant subject. Those, whose
subject not indicated in the appointment letter, will be
considered as Primary Education Teachers.
When the subject is not indicated in the letters of
appointments of Government approved Private Schools
teachers and Pirivena teachers they will be selected for
training according to the subject taught by them.
Submission of a copy of the Time Table approved and
signed by the head of the institution is essential.
(ii) In case of insufficient number of applicants to a course,
the Secretary to the Ministry of Education will decide
on conducting the course.
Course No. Name of the Course
01 Sinhala
02 Primary Education
03 Sociology / Social Studies
04 Science
05 Mathematics
06 Agriculture
07 Home Science
08 English
09 Buddhism
10 Christianity / Roman Catholism
11 Hinduism
12 Islam
13 Art
14 Music
15 Dancing
16 Arabic
17 Special Education
18 Handicrafts and Technology
19 Commerce
20 Tamil
21 Physical Education
22 Second National Language
(Sinhala / Tamil)
07. (i) Eligibility.–Every candidate should have fulfilled the
following conditions :
(i) Should posses a good character,
(ii) Should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii) Should have Passed Six subjects including
Mathematics and First Language at the G.C.E.(O/L)
in not more than 02 sittings,

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1243
(iv) Should have three months service as a teacher by
05.07.2013. (This is applicable to teachers who are
working in the Government Schools),
(v) All candidates should prove their type of
appointment by producing their original Letter of
first Appointment.
(ii) Candidates who select the under mentioned courses should
possess the qualifications mentioned below in addition to
the above qualifications.
(a) Sinhala Course –
Should have obtained a Credit Pass for Sinhala at the
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination
(b) Science Course–
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit Passes
at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or
the Senior School Certificate Examination for
Physics, Botany, Biology, Zoology, Chemistry,
Mathematics (Biology will not be considered
along with Botany and Zoology) ; or
(ii) Should have passed in Science and Mathematics
with a Credit Pass for Science in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination.
(c) Mathematics Course–
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit passes
in Physics, Applied Mathematics, Advanced
Mathematics, Elementary Mathematics, Pure
Mathematics, Mathematics, Science at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the Senior
School Certificate Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in Mathematics and Science with
Credit Pass for Mathematics in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination
(d) Agriculture Course–
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass in one of the
following subjects at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination
(Old Syllabus) or at the Senior School Certificate
Examination Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany,
Zoology ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes in Science and
Agriculture with a Credit Pass for Agriculture in
the New Syllabus, at the G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in one of the following
subjects Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany and
Zoology at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A ’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects in the N.C.G .E. Examination.(a
letter from the Principal certifying the pre-
vocational subject of the candidate is required) ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a training of not less than
six months in a Government Farm related to
Agriculture.
(e) Home Science Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Home
Science or Needle Work at G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination or at the Senior Certificate
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in Home Science at
the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained ‘A ’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects in the N.C.G .E. Examination. (a
letter from the Principal certifying the pre-
vocational subject of the candidate is required)  ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained a Certificate after studying
Home Science at a Government Technical College
for a period of not less than one year.
(f) English Course–
(i) Should have an appointment as an English
Teacher ; or
(ii) Should be a teacher in service with 1st, 2nd, 3rd
Class English Teachers’ Certificate ; and
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass for English
Language or English Literature at the G.C.E.(O/L)
/ London (O/L) Examination or at the Senior
Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have passed English as a subject at a higher
Examination.
(g) Religion Course–
(i) Candidates applying for a course in Buddhism,
Christianity (RC), Hinduism, Islam should have
obtained a Credit Pass for the relevant religion at
the G .C.E.(O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1244
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass for Religion
at the N.C.G .E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in the subject indicated
in (I) above or in a relevant subject at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination.
(h) Art Course–
(i) Should have obtained a Certificate from the
Government College of Fine Arts (Three year
Course in Art) ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Teachers’ Certificate in
Art (Sinhala / Tamil / English)
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the
G.C.E.(O/L) Examination or at the Senior School
Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Art at the
N.C.G .E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate
is required) ; or
(v) Should have obtained a Pass for Art at the
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(i) Music Course–
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate
Certificate in Music of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa
Sabha or the First Part in Peradiga Sangeetha
Examination or Jathika Sangeetha Examination ;
or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate
of the Government College of Fine Arts ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Certificate in Music
(Grade V) of the Northern Ceylon Oriental Music
Teachers’ Association : or
(iv) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate
in Music from any recognized Indian Institution
of Music ; or
(v) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Music at
the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School
Certificate Examination ; or
(vi) Should have obtained a pass in Music at the G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination ; or
(vii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Music at
the N.C.G.E. Examination (A Letter from the
Principal certifying the Aesthetic subject of the
candidate is required).
(j) Dancing Course–
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate
Certificate in Dancing  of the Sri Lanka
Gandharwa Sabha or the First Part in Peradiga
Netum Examination or Jathika Netum
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate
of the Government College of Dancing ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate
in Dancing  from any recognized Indian Institution
of Dancing ; or
(iv) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Dancing at
the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School
Certificate Examination ; or
(v) Should have obtained a pass in Dancing at the
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination ; or
(vi) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Dancing
at the N.C.G.E. Examination (A Letter from the
Principal certifying the Aesthetic subject of the
candidate is required).
(k) Arabic Course–
(i) Should have obtained a pass in Stage I and II of
the Al-Alim Preliminary Examination held by the
Department of Examination or should have
obtained a pass in Arabic at the G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in the Final
Examination of a recognized Madrasa Institute.
The recognized Madrasa Institutes are given
below:
1. Bahijathul Ibrahimiya Arabic College, Fort,
Galle
2. Gafuriya Arabic College, Maharagama
3. Madrathul Bari Arabic College, Weligama
4. Kasimiya Arabic College, Puttalam
5. Nadwatul Ulema Arabic College, Muttur
6. Eastern Lanka Arabic College,
Addalaichchenai
7. Madrasathulfula Arabic College,
Kaththankudi
8. Muslim Ladies Arabic College, KalEliya
9. Madrasathul Jeffriya Arabic College, Galle
10. Hiydadiya Arabic College, Madampe
11. Nadwathul Buhari Arabic College, Kinniya
12. Madrasathul Nooraniya Arabic College,
Kotuwegoda, Matara

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1245
13. Makkiya Arabic College, Galle
or
Any other approved Institute (Proof of
recognition of the Institute should be
forwarded at the Interview)
(iii) The teachers of all other appointment with the
qualification of the above (I) or (II) can be applied
for this course.
(l) Special Education Course  –
There are three divisions.
(i) Teaching children who are visually handicapped
(Blind),
(ii) Teaching Children who are in the category of
hearing impaired (Deaf),
(iii) Teaching Children who are mentally retarded.
Candidates should indicate the division preferred
in their application. Special consideration will be
given to those having English Knowledge in
selecting suitable candidates.
(m) Handicrafts and Technical Skills Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the
G.C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School
Examination in one of the following handicraft
subjects;
¾ Wood Work
¾ Metal Work
¾ Weaving
¾ Pottery
¾ Motor Mechanism
¾ Radio Technology
¾ Masonry
or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in relevant
subject at the N.C.G .E. Examination (A Letter
from the Principal certifying the pre-vocational
subject of the candidate is required) ; or
(iii) Should have a certificate in proof of successful
completion of course of not less than one year
duration at a Government Technical College or
under a Government Department.
(n) Commerce Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in two
subjects among Economics, Commerce,
Accountancy, Typing, Shorthand, Commerce and
Finance at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination or Senior
School Examination; or
(ii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects
indicated above at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained a Certificate from a
Government Technical College for one year
Commerce Course.
(o) Tamil Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Tamil
Language at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(p) Physical Education Course –
(i) Should have obtained a teaching appointment in
Physical Education.
(q) Sociology Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Social
Studies at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination or Senior
School Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a ‘A’ or ‘B’ grade in Social
Studies at the N.C.G .E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects
among Geography, Economics, Political Science
and History at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(r) Second National Language (Sinhala / Tamil) Course –
Teachers who have obtained appointments for Second
National Language Sinhala / Tamil subjects having
qualifications indicated as in Para 7 (I) above can apply
for same.
08. A limited number of teachers from approved Director
Managed School or on the permanent staff of Government Approved
Private Schools, having a minimum of 20 hours of teaching during a
week, will be selected for training. The following categories of
schools are recognized for this purpose :
(i) Assisted Schools which became Private fee-levying
Schools in 1951.
(ii) Schools which became Private Non-fee levying Schools
on 1960/12/01.
(iii) Private Schools and Pirivenas approved by the Ministry
of Education (Not by the Divisional / Provincial Directors
of Education).

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1246
All candidates who are teachers in Private schools approved by
the Ministry of Education should have a minimum of one year
continuous service on 05.07.2013. They should produce a letter
from the Provincial / Zonal Director of Education certifying their
date of first appointment and that the teacher belongs to the
approved staff of the school at the interview.
Pirivena Teachers should have minimum service of two (02)
years as on 05.07.2013 for this approved service will be recognized
under the Pirivena Act, of 1959 or Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979.
At present, Pirivena teachers can apply only for the courses in
Sinhala, Science, Mathematics, English and Buddhism. (They should
obtain training in the subject for which they were appointed.) In
addition, teachers who are applying from Vidyayathana Pirivenas
can be applied for Music, Art, Dancing, Commerce, Physical
Education and Agriculture.
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools and
Pirivenas should submit a declaration by the Managers at the
interview with regards to the following :–
(i) that the teacher could be released from service for the period
of training.
(ii) that the Teacher’s salary will be paid during the period of
training.
(iii) that the Teacher could be re-employed by the Management
after completion of their training.
(iv) that no request will be made for replacement of the teachers
selected for the training and that their duties will be
distributed among the other members of the staff.
Teachers selected from Government Approved Private Schools
and Pirivenas, should sign an agreement before their registration to
the effect that "no requests will be made by them for employment
in Government Schools, after completion of their training".
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools should
submit the originals of their letters of appointment with the
endorsement of the Provincial Director of Education. In the case of
teachers who obtained their appointment before the age of 18 years,
their date of appointment will be made effective from the 18
th
Birthday. The letter of appointment should be certified by the
Provincial Director of Education concerned, if it has been signed by
any other officer.
09. Application for selection :
(i) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
Specimen given in this Gazette Notification.
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which
the candidate wishes to follow the course.
(b) Application form should be prepared on a sheet of
paper of 8" X 12" (A4) size using both sides.
(c) No alterations or deletions of any cage should be done.
Care should be taken to keep adequate space between
the cages and to avoid any over-crowding.
(ii) Candidate should fill in the application properly.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. Special attention
of the candidates is drawn to the following.
(a) Every candidate must give his / her name as registered
in the Department.
(b) Application should be forwarded through the Head of
the School; if the candidate is a Head of a School he /
she should forward the application through the
Director of Education In-charge of the Division / Zone.
(c) Duly completed applications should be forwarded
under registered cover to "Director of Education,
Teacher Education Administration Branch, Ministry
of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla" to reach on or
before 05.08.2013 " Selection of Teachers to follow
the Teacher Education Courses in Teachers’ Colleges
– 2013/2014" and Name of the Course, Medium and
the Zone should be written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing the application.
Registered Post
"Selection of Teachers to follow
the Teacher Education Courses
in Teachers’ Colleges – 2013/2014"
Course : ...............
Medium : ...............
Zone : ...............
Director of Education,
Teacher Education Administration Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla
(d) Late applications will be rejected and;
(i) Applications will not be acknowledged.
(ii) No other documents should be attached to the
application.
(iii) Should be prepared to submit originals and
certified photocopies of all certificates and other
documents at the interview.
(iii) Please note that a Weekend or Distance Teacher Training
Programme will not be commenced for Teacher Training in
Teachers’ Colleges for the year 2013/2014.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1247
10. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil or
English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
S. M. GOTABAY A JAY ARATHNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
05th July, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF EDUCATION
SELECTION OF TEACHERS TO FOLLOW THE TEACHER EDUCATION COURSES IN
TEACHERS’ COLLEGES – 2013/2014
01. Medium :
02. Date of assumption of duties according to the  Letter of
Appointment :
03. Name of Course :
04. Category of First Appointment, Subject and Service / Grade
held by you :
(a) Category of First Appointment :
(b) Subject :
(c) Service / Grade held by you (Indicate the appropriate
number in the cage)
Sri Lanka Teacher Service - 01
Teacher Assistant - 02
Other (Please specify) - 03
(d) Grade :
05. If you are a teacher registered for the Distance Teacher Training
Course / Weekend Teacher Training Course for Non-graduate
Untrained teachers and not completed :
(i) Name of the Course :–––––––––––.
(ii) Year :–––––––––––.
(iii) Final Results :–––––––––––.
06. Name with Initials(Write in Block Capital Letters. Write the
name first and indicate the initials after the name.)
(Example : PERERA, A. B.)  :
Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. :–––––––––––.
07. Names denoted by initials(Write in Block Capital Letters) :
––––––––––––.
08. Gender – Male / Female (Write the respective number in the
cage) :
Male - 1 Female - 2
09. National Identity Card Number :
10. Date of Birth(Age as on 05.07.2013) :
Years :––––––––– Months :–––––––––– Days :––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :
Residence :––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––.
12. E-mail address (if any) :––––––––––.
13. Private Address(Write in Block Capital Letters) :–––––––––.
14. Name of the Present Serving Station, Address, District and
Zone (Write in Block Capital Letters) :
(i) Name of the Present Serving Station :––––––––––.
(ii) Address :––––––––––.
(iii) District :––––––––––.
(iv) Zone :––––––––––.
(v) Nature of the Serving Station (Indicate the appropriate
number in the cage) :
(a) Government School – 01
(b) Plantation School – 02
(c) Government approved Pirivena – 03
(d) Government approved Private School – 04
(e) Other – 05
15. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Results of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
 First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial Subject Grade obtained
No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1248
(ii) Results of G.C.E.(A/L) Examination :
 First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial Subject Grade obtained
No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
16. Service Particulars :
Serial Schools Served Period of Whether
No. service difficult or not
1.
2.
3.
17. Applicants’ Declaration :
(i) I declare that the above stated information is correct and
true. I know that, if the information given by me found to
be incorrect, my application will be subjected to rejection
and if any fault is revealed after the selection, I will be
dismissed from the course.
(ii) I am presently not undergoing any type of institutional
teacher training programmes.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
18. Principals’ Declaration :
(i) The number of teachers in the staff at present :–––––––.
(ii) The Number of Students :––––––––––.
(iii) Whether the existing staff in the school will be sufficient
for the number of students, if the teacher is released for
the teacher training :––––––––––
I certify that the above candidate is a teacher / teacher assistant
serving in my school from ………………… up to date and I have
examined the particulars submitted by him / her in this application
and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………………if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal and
the Rubber Seal.
Date :––––––––––.
19. I certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms........................... is a Teacher /
Teacher Assistant, serving in ……………………………
Vidyalaya of …………… zone from …………… …………..
up to date. He / She has assumed duties as per his / her first
appointment letter dated ………… …….. I have examined the
particulars submitted by him / her in this application and certify
them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. …………………....if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
–––––––––––,
Signature,
Zonal Director of Education
and the Rubber Seal
Date :––––––––––.
20. I certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms..................  is a Teacher /
Teacher Assistant, serving in …………………… .Vidyalaya
of …………… … zone. I have examined the particulars
submitted by him / her in this application and certify them as
true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………………. if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
–––––––––––,
Signature,
Provincial Director of Education and
the Rubber Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–21/1
––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICES  COMMISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade
II of Class II of the Post of Entomologist of Sri Lanka
Scientific Service of the Department of Health – 2013
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the qualified citizens of
Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment
to Grade II of Class II of the Post of Entomologist of Sri Lanka
Scientific Service of the Department of Health. The number of the
vacancies is 28.
2. The term "Secretary" in this notification shall mean the
"Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs".
The term "Service" shall mean "Sri Lanka Scientific Service".
3. Written Examination.– The examination shall consist of the
following question papers :
(i) Intelligence Test,
(ii) General Question paper.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1249
4. Date of Examination.– This examination shall be conducted in
October 2013 in Colombo. The Secretary reserves the right either
to cancel or postpone this examination subject to the instructions
of the Public Service Commission.
5. Oral Test.– Secretary shall determine the date for a general
interview to be conducted for the candidates who have secured an
aggregate of marks at the highest level prescribed by the Public
Service Commission as adequate out of the applicants who appeared
for all the question papers of the written examination.
6. Number and the effective date of appointments shall be
determined as per the orders of the Public Service Commission.
7. Service Conditions.– Candidates who are selected subject to
the general conditions which govern the appointments in the Public
Service (Published in the Gazette Extraordinary of Socialist
Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka No. 509/07 dated 07th June
1988), terms and conditions imposed in Scientific Service Minute
and the revisions made to the said service minute or revisions to be
made in the future, shall be appointed into Grade II of Class II of
the Service. Accordingly, this post shall be permanent and
pensionable. The probation period shall be 3 years. Officers are
required to pass the 1st Efficiency Bar within the above 3 years
and pass the 2nd Efficiency Bar within 6 years from the date of
appointment. Further, they are required to achieve the proficiency
in second language as per Public Administration Circular No. 07/
2007 dated 28.05.2007 before the lapse of 5 years from the date of
appointment.
7.1 The Public Services Commission shall reserve the right
to cancel the appointment of the applicants who fail to
assume duties of the post on due date and/or reject or
avoid assuming duties of a post or area where he/she is
appointed.
8. Structure and the monthly salary scale. – As per salary scale
SL 1-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated
25.04.2006. SL 1- Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 -
Rs. 53,555.
Recruitment shall be made by this examination to Grade II of
Class II of Sri Lanka Scientific Service.
9. Health and Character.– A candidate must satisfy in Secretary
that he is duly qualified in respect of health and that he has an
excellent moral character. He must possess good eye sight and be
physically fit for service in any part of the Island. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
10. Qualifications.– Candidates who apply for the examination :
(i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Shall be graduate from a university recognized by the
University Grants Commission ;
(iii) All the qualifications mentioned in this notification shall
have been satisfied each and every way on or before the
closing date of application and the effective date of the
degree shall also be conformed to the prescription made
in the Notification ;
(iv) Following qualifications shall be fulfilled for this post :
Department Profession Educational and other
qualifications
Department of Entomologist ( a) Bsc. (Special) Degree in
Health Services Zoology with
Entomology as a subject
from a recognized
university ;
or
(b) PHD/Msc. in
Entomology from a
recognized university.
(v) The minimum age limit shall be 22 years and the maximum
age limit shall be 35 years of age as at the closing date of
applications. Maximum age limit shall not be applied to
candidates who are already in public service.
(vi) No person obtained in any religious sect shall be permitted
to sit this examination.
11. Examination fee .– The fee is Rs. 1,000. It shall be paid
before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13
of the Department of Examinations. The receipt obtained in favor
of the candidate should be pasted to the relevant cage in the
application form. This fee is non-refundable. It is advisable to keep
a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
12. Method of Application :
(a) The application shall be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and it shall be prepared on
paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A-4) using both sides. It should
be specially noted that hte application forms shall be so
prepared that cages 1.0 to 3.9 appear on the first page and
cages 3.10 to 6.0 appear in the second page and remaining
cages in third page. Candidate shall fill the application in
his own hand writing. Applications that do not comply
with the specimen and that are not completed in every
aspect shall be rejected without notice. (It is advisable to
keep a photocopy of the application with candidate).
Candidates shall be satisfied to the effect that the
application is strictly in accordance with the specimen in
the Examination notification. If otherwise the application
will be rejected.
(b) The application shall be in the language in which the
candidate intends to sit the examination. It is essential to
mention the name of examination in English language as
well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1250
(c) The completed application form for the examination shall
be sent by Registered Post to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations. (Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch) Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before
05th August, 2013. The words “Open Competitive
Examination for Recruitment to Grade II of Class II of the
Post of Entomologist of Sri Lanka Scientific Service of the
Department of Health - 2013” shall be clearly indicated on
the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application. Any application received after the closing date
will not be accepted.
(d) Candidate's signature in the application form shall have
been attested by a principal of a Government School, a
Justice of the peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-
law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police
Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in the public
service whose annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(e) No complaint that an application has been lost or delayed
in the post will be considered.
(f) The receipt of the applications shall not be informed. A
notice will be published in the newspapers by the
Department of Examination as soon as Admission Cards
are issued to appilcants. If the admission card is not received
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps shall be
taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable
to send certified photocopies of the application form and
the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration
attached to your letter to reach the Department of
Examination through fax. In case of applicants outside
Colombo, a fax number shall be indicated in the letter of
request for sending the admission card. (Fax No. of the
Department of Examinations : 011-2784232).
13. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all persons who have sent their
applications which have been duly perfected. A
candidate presenting himself for the examination must
produce his Admission Card in which his signature has
been certified, to the Supervisor of the Examination
Center. A candidate who fails to produce his Admission
Card will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
The decision of the Commissioner-General of
Examinations shall be the final on any matter relating to
conducting examinations and issuing result.
(b) A candidate must sit for the examination at the
examination hall assigned to him/her under his/her index
number. Every candidate must get his/her signature on
the admission card attested in advance and hand it over
to the supervisor on the first day he/she presents himself/
herself for the examination. A set of rules to be observed
by all candidates is published at the beginning of the
Gazette. Candidates are subject to rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
on conducting the examination. Further, they are liable
to be subject to a punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for breach of
these rules.
(c) The post and the service station of all the applicants at
the time of applying for the examination shall be applied
for all matters pertaining to examination and any change
occur after sending applications shall not be considered.
Note.- The issuance of an Admission Card to a candidate
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
14. Identity of candidates.- A candidate will be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
15. Penalty for furnishing false information .- If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to during or after the examination. If it is found that a
candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are
false, or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she
will be liable for dismissal from the service.
16. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission.
17. Scheme of Examination and Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English. The language medium of examination indicated
initially shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
(b) A candidate shall sit for the examination either in the
language in which he has obtained the qualifying degree
or in an Official Language.
(c) If the candidate has passed the subjects of the qualifying
degree in two or more languages, he shall sit for the
examination either in the language in which he has passed
most the subjects of the degree or an official language.
(d) A candidate who possesses a special degree and has
passed the main subject in one language and the additional
subject in another language shall sit for the examination
in the language in which he/she has passed the main
subject or an official language.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1251
Note.- (i) The term "Qualifying degree" in ( b) and (c) above
refers tot he Degree Qualifications referred to in
paragraph 10.
(ii)  A candidate must sit all the papers of the
examination in one and the same Language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the
Language Medium of the Examination, indicated in
the application.
18. Method of Selection.-A written examination in the following
subjects;
1. Intelligence Test - Marks 100 - Duration 1 hour
2. General Knowledge - Marks 100 - Duration 3 hours
(Minimum marks required for a pass in each subject is
40%)
19. Method of appointment :
(i) As per the procedur of Recruitment of the post of
Entomologist, recruitment shall strictly be made to the
above post on the order of the merit as per the results
of a written examination conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of
the Secretary of Ministry Public Administration and
Home Affairs as decided by him. Verification of
qualifications shall be done by an interview board
approved by the Public Service Commission.
(Presenting the self at the interview shall not necessarily
mean that he or she has fulfilled  requisite qualifications
for an appointment to be awarded)
19.1 Issuing results.– A number which is equivalent to the
number of existing vacancies out of the candidates who
have secured marks not less than 40% for each subject
or the result sheet prepared on the order of the marks
containing the number determined by the Public Service
Commission shall be provided to Secretary, Public
Service Commission. All the Candidates who sat the
examination shall personally be issued a result sheet
containing the total marks and marks secured by them
for each subject.
20. Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks)
This question paer is designed to measure the ability of
candidate on critical reasoning, analyzing problems,
making decisions and judgment. It consists of 50 multiple
choice questions and questions for short answers and all
the questions shall be answered.
(ii) General knowledge (Duration 3 hours - 100 marks)
This question paper will consist of structured questions
regarding wide scientific matters covering all the subjects.
21. In the event of any inconsistency between sinhala, Tamil
and English text of the Gazette notification the Sinhala text shall
previl.
On the order of the Public Service Commission.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
19th June, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE II OF
CLASS II OF THE POST OF ENTOMOLOGIST OF SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC
SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH - 2013
(For Official Use)
1.0 Medium :
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
* The application shall be filled in the medium in which the
candidate appear for the examination
2.0 Post applied for :
Department Post
3.0 Personal Information :
3.1 Name with initials at the end, in English Block Capitals :
––––––––––.
Examples : RANASINGHE R. M. A. K.
3.2 Full Name in English Block Capitals :–––––––––––.
3.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
3.4 National Identity Card No. :
3.5 Permanent Address in English Block Capitals (The
admission card will be sent to this address) :–––––––––.
3.6 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1252
3.7 Postal  City (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.8 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.9 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, other - 5)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.10 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
3.11 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.12 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Qualifications :
(i) Effective Date of the Degree : .......... (Please read
para 10 (iv) of the nofification carefully to see whether
you are qualified in this respect.)
Examination/ Class Year Subjects University/
Degree Institute
(ii) The highest examination passed :
Sinhala :––––––––.
Tamil :––––––––.
English :––––––––.
(iii) Particulars of occupations engaged in/trainings
obtained, after leaving school (Dates of assuming
duties and date of resignation, and reasons for
resignation shall be stated)
(iv) p articulars of the post holding at present :
(a) Post :–––––––––.
(b) Department/Institution :–––––––––.
(c) Date of appointment :–––––––––.
(d) Whether on permanent/pensionable/Non
pensionable/ temporary basis :–––––––––.
(e) Whether confirmed in post :–––––––––.
(f) Salary scale of the post and present salary :––––.
5.0 Property paste the cash receipt here.
Paste the receipt of the examination fee so as not to
be detached.
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy)
Receipt number :–––––––––.
Office to which payment was made :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
6.0 Have you ever bee convicted in a court of law for a criminal
offence ? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and
penalty imposed :–––––––––.
7.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of
my knowledge and belief, and that I have affixed the receipt No.......
dated............ being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree
to be bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision
that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after
the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according to the
regulations of this examination. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be inaccurate and false after
appointment, I am liable to dismissal from service without any
compensation. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by commissioner - General of examinations on
holding examination as well as the decisions taken in connection to
issuance of results.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
8.0 Attestation of the applicant's Signature : (As per 12(d) of the
Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certifty that . . . . . (full name) who submits this
application is known to me personally, and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on . . . . . and further the officer has
paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the
applications.
–––––––––––––,
(Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature).
Date :–––––––––.
Name in Full of the Officer Attesting the Signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
9.0 Report of the Head of Department if the Applicant is in the
Public Service
I certify that the particulrs given in paragraph 07 above are
correct/needed to be revised, as shown below and the his/her work
and conduct . . . . . Further, He/she can be/cannot be released from
the post which he/she holds at present.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department/Head of Institution.
Designation :–––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––.:–––––––––.
07-86

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1253
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.07.2013
1254
IMPORTANT   NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2013
JULY 05.07.2013 Friday — 21.06.2013 Friday 12 noon
12.07.2013 Friday –– 28.06.2013 Friday 12 noon
19.07.2013 Friday –– 05.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
26.07.2013 Friday –– 12.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 02.08.2013 Friday — 19.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2013 Thursday –– 26.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
16.08.2013 Friday –– 02.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
23.08.2013 Friday –– 08.08.2013 Thursday 12 noon
30.08.2013 Friday –– 16.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 06.09.2013 Friday — 23.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
13.09.2013 Friday –– 30.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
20.09.2013 Friday –– 06.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
27.09.2013 Friday –– 13.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2013.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.