

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2310$37 - 2022 foieïn¾ ui 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'12'15
No. 2310/37 -  Thursday,   december  15,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6102 - 2606 (12/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. D. B. 1/2012(v)
fIShERIES  AND  AquATIC  RESOuRCES  ACT, No. 2 Of 1996 
reGulaTioNs made by the minister of Fisheries under section 61(1) (sg), (sh) and (t) of the Fisheries and aquatic 
resources act, No. 2 of 1996.
 Douglas Dev ananDa,
 minister of Fisheries.
colombo,
14th december, 2022.
Regulations 
 The implementation of satellite based Vessel monitoring system (Vms) for Fishing boats operating in high seas 
regulations 2015, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1907/47 of march 26, 2015 are hereby amended as follows:-
 (1) by the repeal of regulation 1 thereof and the substitution therefor of the following:-
  “1. These regulations may be cited as the implementation of satellite baed Vessel monitoring system (Vms) 
and other electronic Vessel monitoring systems for Fishing Vessels operating in sri lanka Waters and high 
seas regulations, 2015”,
 (2) by the insertion immediately after the substituted regulation 1 thereof, of the following:-

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.12.2022
2a
“PART I
Satellite based v essel Monitoring System (vMS)”;
 (3) by the repeal of regulation 2 thereof and the substitution therefor of the following:-
	 	 “2.	 A	person	shall	not	deploy	any	multiday	fishing	vessel	to	engage	in	fishing	and	fishery	related	activities	and	
fishing	operations	unless	such	vessel	is	fitted	with	Satellite	based	Vessel	Monitoring	System	Device	(hereinafter	
referred to as a “Vms device”) on board approved by the department of Fisheries and aquatic resources 
(hereinafter	referred	to	as	“the	Department”)	which	allows	tracking	and	identification	of	such	vessels	by	the	
land based Fisheries monitoring centre (hereinafter referred to as “Fmc”) of the department.”;
 (4) by the insertion immediately after the substituted regulation 2, of the following new regulation which shall  
come into effect as regulation 2a  thereof:-
  “2a. The director-General shall not issue any vessel registration, renewal of registration, transfer of vessel or 
departure	approval	to	any	multiday	fishing	vessel	unless	it	has	a	fully	operational	VMS	Device	on	board.”;
 (5) by the insertion immediately after regulation 2a, of the following:-
  “Responsibilities of Master, Skipper, Registered owner or Licensee
	 	 “3.	 The	registered	owner	of	any	multiday	fishing	vessel	shall	install	a	VMS	Device	approved	by	the	Director-
General on board the vessel and shall obtain services such as maintenance and repair and other services of the 
Vms, only from the registered service providers referred to in part iii of these regulations”;
 (6) (a) by renumbering existing regulation 3 thereof, as regulation 3a;
	 	 (b)	 in	 renumberied	regulation	3A	by	the	substitution	for	the	words	“skipper,	owner	or	licensee	of	the	fishing	
vessel”	of	the	words	“skipper,	registered	owner	or	licensee	of	the	fishing	vessel”;
 (7) by the insertion immediately after the renumbered regulation 3a, of the following new regulations:-
	 	 “3B.	 The	master,	skipper,	registered	owner	or	licensee	of	any	fishing	vessel	shall	ensure	that	the	VMS	Device	
on	board	of	the	vessel	is	maintained	in	a	manner	that	the	information	or	data	specified	in	regulation	3A	can	be	
easily obtained via the Vms device on board of such vessel.
	 	 3C.	 The	registered	owner	or	licensee	of	any	fishing	vessel	shall	take	necessary	action	to	coordinate	with	a	
relevant maintenance supplier registered under Part iii of these regulations in order to obtain the services and 
repairs needed for the vessel.
	 	 3D.	 The	registered	owner	or	licensee	of	any	fishing	vessel	shall	settle	relevant	satellite	data	charges	on	due	time	
in order to obtain the uninterrupted satellite service enabling Fmc to monitor the vessel.
	 	 3E.	 The	Master,	Skipper,	registered		owner	or	licensee	of	any	fishing	vessel	shall	ensure	that	the	VMS	Device	
on board to be a fully operational Vms device at all times and no person shall destroy, damage, render it 
inoperative or otherwise interfere with the Vms device installed on board and following activities in relation 
to the device are strictly prohibited -
 (a) alter the Vessel monitoring system (Vms) data in any manner;
 (b) obstruct the antenna or the antennas connected to the Vms device manually;
 (c) interrupt the power supply to the Vms device manually; and 
	 (d)	 remove	the	VMS	Device	from	the	fishing	vessel	or	change	the	installed	position	in	the	vessel	without	
the prior approval from the Fmc of the department.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.12.2022
3a
	 	 3F.	 The	skipper	or	master	of	a	fishing	vessel	shall	take	steps	to	ensure,	through	the	VMS	Device	and	its	FMC	to	
monitor	the	date	and	time	of	the	entry	into	and	the	exit	of	a	fishing	vessel	from:-
	 (a)	 any	maritime	area	where	specific	rules	on	access	to	waters	and	resources	apply;
 (b) the regulatory areas of the regional Fisheries maritime organization;
 (c) Jurisdictional waters of any other state;
 (d) any other area, resgricted or otherwise, which may be designated by the department.
	 	 3G.	 Any	fishing	vessel	which	operates	in	close	proximity	up	to	twenty	nautical	miles	of	any	marine	protected	
area or areas restricted or any vessel in transit passage which remain in such proximity shall be monitored at 
one-hour	intervals	or	any	other	time	interval	decided	by	the	Director-General	as	he	deems	fit.”;
 (8) by the insertion immediately after the preceding regulation  3G, of the following heading:-
  “Responsibilities of fMC”;
 (9) by the repeal of sub regulation (2) of regulation 4 thereof;
 (10) by the repeal of paragraph (i) of regulation 8 thereof and the substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-
  “(i). ensure that the vessel monitoring software and the satellite service functions properly”;
 (11) by the insertion immediately after regulation 8 thereof, of the following new regulation:-
  “8a. The Fmc shall-
	 (a)	 tag	identify	the	risk	fishing	vessels	in	the	System	enabling	the	close	monitoring	of	such	vessels;
 (b) Provide vessel track data for the purpose of catch data position veritication, search and rescue 
operations, detection of any iuu activity and any other investigations within the department of 
Fisheries;
 (c) ensure direct access from the Vms data base to centralized data base and information management 
system	officially	run	by	the	Department	of	Fisheries;
	 (d)	 Ensure	that	the	date	received	from	any	fishing	vessel	is	recorded	and	preserved	either	in	soft	or	hard	
copies	for	a	period	of	minimum	five	years	or	for	a	period	as	may	be	determined	by	the	Director	
General.”;
 (12) by the substitution in regulation 9 thereof, for the words “owner” and “ssb radio etc” of the words “registered 
owner” and “ssb radio or via any electronic method approved by the director-General.” respectively;
 (13) by the substitution in regulation 10 thereof, for the words “to the satisfaction of the Fmc of department.” of the 
words “enabling it to serve as a fully operational Vms device.”;
 (14) by the substitution in regulation 11 thereof, for the words “monitoring device” and “until written authorization 
is given by the Fmc of the department.” of the words “Vms device” and “unless prior written approval is 
obtained from the director-General.” respectively;
 (15) by the repeal of regulation 12 thereof;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.12.2022
4a
 (16) by the substitution in regulation 13 thereof, for the words “master or the owner,” of the words “master or the 
registered owner,”;
 (17) by the repeal of regulations 14 and 15 thereof;
 (18) by the repeal of regulation 19 thereof;
 (19) by the repeal of regulation 20 thereof;
 (20) by the insertion of the following, immediately after the repealed regulation 20:-
“PART II
Automatic Identification Systems and Other electronic monitoring systems
	 20.	 The	 registered	owner	of	any	fishing	vessel	who	intends	to	use	any	Automatic	Identification	System	(hereinafter	
sometimes referred to as “ais”) or any other electronic monitoring system in addition to the mandatory Vms 
on board, for operational purposes, he shall obtain such devices from the authorized suppliers and the service 
providers registered under Part iii of these regulations.
	 21.	 The	 registered	owner	of	any	fishing	vessel	shall	provide	the	unique	serial	number	of	the	Automatic	Identification	
system (ais) to the department of Fisheries and aquatic resources when such device is istalled on board.
	 22.	 The	 unique	serial	number	of	the	Automatic	Identification	System	(AIS)	for	fishing	vessels	and	Automatic	
Identification	System	for	gear	marking	buoya	shall	be	in	the	following	format	respectively:-
 (i) [417] [Numerals in the vessel registration number] [last two digits of district telephone code]
 (ii) [99] [417] [Four-digit serial number];
	 23.	 A 	person	shall	not	transfer	Automatic	Identification	System	devices,	other	electronic	monitoring	systems	or	
Automatic	Identification	Systems	for	gear	marking	buoys	used	in	respect	of	a	fishing	vessel	to	another	fishing	
vessel except with the approval of the director - General.
	 24.	 The	 master,	skipper,	registered	owner	or	licensee	of	a	fishing	vessel	shall	report	to	the	Director-General	on	
drifting	of	Automatic	Identification	System	buoys	to	any	restricted	area,	Exclusive	Economic	Zone	(EEZ)	of	
other	State,	misplacement	or	loss	of	Automatic	identification	System	gear	markers	and	the	registered	owner	of	
the	vessel	shall	disconnect	it	within	seventy-two	hours	(72	hours)	and	shall	erase	the	Automatic	Identification	
System	code	or	remove	the	Automatic	Identification	System	device	from	the	vessel	in	the	event	of	deregistration,	
transfer or sale of the vessel.
	 25.	 The	 registered	owner	of	the	fishing	vessel	shall	disconnect	other	Electronic	monitoring	devices	which		are	not	
reported	to	the	Director-General	under	regulation	24,	from	the	fishing	vessel	and	relevant	software	in	the	event	
of	any	deregistration,	Transfer	or	sale	of	the	fishing	vessel
PART III
Registration of Supopliers and Service Providers
 26. any person who intends to supply satellite-based vessel tracking devices and other electronic monitoring 
devices referred to in Part i and Part ii of these regulations and to provide maintenance services with regard to 
such devices, shall register with the department of Fisheries and aquatic resources for the respective purposes.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.12.2022
5a
	 27.	 A 	person	who	intends	to	register	under	regulation	26,	shall	submit	such	application	in	the	Form	specified	
in schedule iii of these regulations to the director-General together with a registration fee of rupees Ten 
Thousand  (rs. 10,000.00).
	 28.	 The	 Director-General	shall	after	making	a	technical	evaluation	of	the	products,	issue	a	certificate	of	registration	
for	the	supply	of	vessel	tracking	devices	as	per	the	Form	specified	in	schedule	IV	of	these	regulations.
	 29.	 The	 certificate	of	registration	referred	to	in	regulation	28	shall	be	valid	for	a	period	of	three	years	from	the	date	
of issue subject to renewal of the registration on an application made in that behalf together with the fee of 
registration  referred to in regulation 27.
 30. any vessel tracking device registered under regulation 28 shall be compatible with the software and other 
services used by the department of Fisheries and aquatic resources and the department of Fisheries and 
aquatic resources shall have access to monitor the activities via software interface with an administrative user 
power.
	 31.	 The	 Director-General	shall	publish	an	updated	list	of	registered	suppliers	issued	with	a	certificate	of	registration	
under regulation 28, together with the details of equipment and services to be supplied by them.
PART Iv
Cansellation of Registration of Service Providers
(vMS/AIS/Other Electronic Monitoring Devices)
 32. The director-General shall cancel a registration granted by him under regulation 28 of this regulation, if he is 
satisfied	that	the	service	provider-
 (1) has contravened any of the provisions of Part iii of these regulations;
 (2) has been convicted of an offence under these regulations.”.
	 21.	 by	 the	substitution	for	the	word	“vessel”	wherever	that	word	appears	in	these	regulations	of	the	word	“fishing	
vessel”.
 22. (a) by renumbering regulation 21 thereof as regulation 33;
  (b) in the renumbered regulation 33,
	 (i)	 by	the	insertion	immediately	after	the	definition	of	“fishing	related	activities”,	of	the	following	
new	definition:-
“fishing	vessel”	means	any	vessel,	ship	or	boat	used	for,	equipped	to	be	used	for	or	intended	
to	be	used	for,	fishing	or	fishing	related	activities;
	 (ii)	 by	the	insertion	immediately	after	the	definition	of	“fishing	vessel”,	of	the	following	new	
definition:-
“Fully operational Vessel monitoring system (Vms) device” means Vessel monitoring 
systems transponder and all its accessories onboard, functioning without any technical failure 
with unobstructed power supply and satellite connection and visible on the Vessel monitoring 
systems software interface;
	 (iii)	 by	the	insertion	immediately	after	the	definition	of	“Illegal,	Unreported	and	Unregulated	fishing”,	
of	the	following	new	definition:-

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.12.2022
6a
“other electronic monitoring devices” means equipment or associated software which can 
emit information in an electronic format on the identity of the device enabling the device to be 
monitored by a third party;
	 (iv)	 by	the	insertion	immediately	after	the	definition	of	“port”,	of	the	following	new	definition:-
“risk	vessel”	means	a	vessel	that	is	identified	based	on	the	history	of	violations	done	by	
using the vessel having the potential of violating the rules and regulations made under the 
Fisheries and aquatic resources act, No. 2 of 1996;
	 (v)	 by	the	repeal	of	the	definition	of	vessel”	in	that	regulation;
 23. by the insertion immediately after schedule ii thereof, of the following new schedules:-
  
  
  

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.12.2022
7a
regulation 27
schedule iii
Application to register for the supply of Satellite based v essel Monitoring System (vMS) and other electronic 
monitoring protocols for fishing Boats Operating in Sri Lanka Waters and high Seas
 a. details of the vessels supplier
 1. Name of the local company;
 2. address;
 3. company reg No.;
 4. V aT reg No.;
 5. main contact Name and designation;
 6. main contact Telephone Number;
 7. main contact email address;
	 B.	 Basic	Specifications	of	the	devices	and	related	Services
 1. Name of the device (make and model);
 2. country of origin;
 3. country of manufacture;
 4. y ear of manufacture;
 5. software interface details;
 c. service information
 1. Warranty;
 2. after sales services;
 3. Work shop availability in sri lanka;
 4. spare parts availability;
 5. ex-stock availability;
 d. details of the target group of Fishermen (ex: boat owner, skippers etc.)
 e. costing details
 1. cost of the device (including import, approval, transport etc.);
 2. installation cost*;
 3. software and hosting charges # (including maintenance upgrading etc.);
 4. activation charges (ex; Psa/Trc etc)#;
 5. any other charge;
 F. attachments to the application
	 1.	 Detail	specification	sheets	for	devices,	software	and	communication	services	to	be	used;
 2. installation, activation and maintenance plan and methodology (should be provided as a separate 
attachment to this document;
 3. Payment collection and transfer methodology (should be provided as a separate attachment to this 
document);
 4. current prices and price changing policy for the satellite charges (should be provided as a separate 
attachment to this document;
 5. data sharing methodology and data sharing policy (should be provided as a separate attachment to this 
document);

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.12.2022
8a
 6. details of the technical team to be deployed (should be provided as a separate attachment to this document);
 7. list of districts to be covered by the service-preferred all island (should be provided as a separate 
attachment to this document);
	 8.	 Details	of	the	facilities	to	be	provided		to	the	fisheries	monitoring	center	(FMC	at	DFAR)	(ex;	Monitoring	
screens, cloud or server facility) (free logging and monitoring of their boats and etc.);
 9. Facilities to be provided to the Fisherman/boat owners;
regulation 28
schedule iV
Registration	Certificate
implementation of satellite based Vessel monitoring system (Vms) and other electronic monitoring protocols for Fishing 
Vessels operating in sri lankan Waters and high seas
 a. details of the service provider
 1. Name of the local company;
 2. address;
 3. company reg No.;
 4. V aT reg No.;
 5. main contact Name and designation;
 6. main contact Telephone Number;
 7. main contact email address;
 b. details of the authorized service
 1. Name of the device/s;
 2. make and model/s;
 3. software (version);
 4. communication channel (if applicable);
 c. Target Group-
  The above service provider (details given under a) is hereby authorized to provide and supply above 
mentioned	service	or	goods	(details	given	under	B)	for	the	fisheries	sector	of	Sri	Lanka;
  Valid from -
  Valid to -
  authorized  by
  director - General
  department of Fisheries and aquatic resources
eoG 12-0161
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.