

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2190
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2182
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"986 – 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'09'23
No. 1,986 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 23, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th  october, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th  september, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th september, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2179
Note.— Rajitha Kodithuwakku foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 17, 2016.
N. B.— Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 1985 of 15.09.2016 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2180
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2181
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2182
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT 
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths 
 
baduLLa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or 
before 24th october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
05th september, 2016.
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
badulla Lunugala Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/ district secretary/additional
    General) in Viyaluwa division and    Registrar General,  district
   births and deaths of oyapalatha East  secretariat, badulla 
   division
badulla Passara Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/ district secretary/additional
    General) in Viyaluwa division and    Registrar General,  district
   births and deaths of oyapalatha West  secretariat, badulla
   division
09–789

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2183
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
GaLLE  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
24th october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
29th august, 2016. 
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division  for which Address to which
  Division  Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Karandeniya Post of muslim marriage Registrar of district secretary/additional
    Galle district division of Karandeniya  Registrar General, district   
   Panapitiya area  secretariat, Galle
09–742
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2184
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
24th october, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
29th august, 2016. 
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division  for which Address to which
     Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy medadumbara Post of Registrar of  muslim marriages district secretary/additional
    of theldeniya area of medadumbara  Registrar General, district   
   division  secretariat, Kandy. 
09–741
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  buDDhASASANA
Posts of the Chief Composer, Deputy Composer 
and Assistant Composer of the buddhist 
Encyclopaedia in the Department of buddhist 
Affairs
aPPLicatioNs are called from the sri Lankan citizens 
for the vacancies, in the Posts of chief composer, deputy 
composer and assistant composer of the buddhist 
Encyclopaedia, separately. applications which are prepared 
by the applicants with following qualifications must be sent 
by the Registered Post to the address of secretary, ministry 
of buddhasasana, “dahampaya”, No. 135, sreemath 
anagarika dharmapala mawatha, colombo 07 on or 
before the date of 23.10.2016.  
Note .– the complaints in relation to application or a 
letter connected to the application which are lost or 
delayed in the post are not entertained. the applicants 
must take actions to adduce the applications earlier 
enough.
(01) Post of the Chief Composer of the buddhist 
Encyclopaedia 
01. this post is temporary. it is a post on contract basis 
of 02 years without an entitlement of having a permanent 
appointment or privileges of the permanent officers. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2185
02. Salary Method.– the salaries for this post will 
be paid as following, according to the approval of the 
department of management services.  
2016 –  basic monthly salary = Rs. 44,639.00 
 adjustment allowance = Rs. 9,467.00
 Life cost allowance = Rs. 7,800.00
2017 -  basic monthly salary = Rs. 54,021.00 
 adjustment allowance = Rs. 1,345.00
 Life cost allowance  = Rs. 7,800.00
03. Age Limit.– age must be not less than 35 years and 
not more than 50 years. this age limit will not be relevant 
for those who are working in the Public service. 
04. Educational and other qualifications :- 
 (i) the candidates should have obtained a Honours 
degree with a 1st or 2nd class in Pali, buddhist 
culture and a doctor of Philosophy or master of 
art degree  from a recognized university, and; 
 (ii) at least 10 years of experience as an 
encyclopaedist in an encyclopaedic office, 
and;
 (iii) should have an excellent knowledge of 
English language.
05. Service Conditions.– 10th and 12th articles of 
second chapter of the Establishment code are relevant. 
06. must have to approach to a service agreement 
relevant to the duties with the department of buddhist 
affairs, after the recruitment. 
(02) Post of the Deputy Composer of the buddhist 
Encyclopaedia
01. this post is temporary. it is a post on contract basis 
of 02 years without an entitlement of having a permanent 
appointment or privileges of the permanent officers. 
02. Salary Method.– the salaries for this post will 
be paid as following, according to the approval of the 
department of management services.  
2016  – basic monthly salary = Rs. 36,659.00
  adjustment allowance = Rs. 9,551.00
  Life cost allowance = Rs. 7,800.00
2017 – basic monthly salary  = Rs. 44,269.00 
  adjustment allowance = Rs. 2,889.00
  Life cost allowance = Rs. 7,800.00
03. Age Limit.– age must be not less than 30 years and 
not more than 50 years. this age limit will not be relevant 
for those who are working in the Public service.  
04. Educational and other qualifications :- 
 (i) the candidates should have obtained a Post 
Graduate degree from a recognized university 
and a degree with a 1st or 2nd class in Pali, 
buddhist culture from a recognized university, 
and;
 (ii) 08 years of experience as an encyclopaedist in 
an encyclopaedic office, and;
 (iii) should have an excellent knowledge of English 
language.
05. Service Conditions.– 10th and 12th articles of 
second chapter of the Establishment code are relevant. 
06. must have to approach to a service agreement 
relevant to the duties with the department of buddhist 
affairs, after the recruitment. 
(03) Post of the Assistant Composer of the buddhist 
Encyclopaedia
01. this post is temporary. it is a post on contract basis 
of 02 years without an entitlement of having a permanent 
appointment or privileges of the permanent officers. 
02. Salary Method.– the salaries for this post will 
be paid as following, according to the approval of the 
department of management services :  
 2016  –  basic monthly salary  = Rs. 27,871.00
   adjustment allowance = Rs. 9,651.00
   Life cost allowance = Rs. 7,800.00
 2017  -  basic monthly salary  = Rs. 33,728.00 
   adjustment allowance  = Rs. 4,568.00
   Life cost allowance = Rs. 7,800.00
03. Age Limit.– age must be not less than 21 years and 
not more than 45 years. this age limit will not be relevant 
for those who are working in the Public service.  
04. Educational and other qualifications :- 
 (i) the candidate should have obtained a Honours 
degree with a 1st or 2nd class in buddhist 
culture and a doctor of Philosophy or master of 
Art Degree in relevant fields from a recognized 
university.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2186
 (ii) should have an excellent knowledge of 
English language. must have obtained at least 
a credit pass in the G.c.E (ordinary Level) 
Examination.
05. service conditions.– 10th and 12th articles of second 
chapter of the establishment code are relevant. 
06. must have to approach to a service agreement 
relevant to the duties with the department of buddhist 
affairs, after the recruitment. 
 WasanTha ekanayake,
 secretary,
 ministry of buddhasasana.
09–946
–––––––––––––––
AuDITOR GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Deputy Auditor General Grade I of 
Class I of the Sri Lanka Audit Service 
aPPLicatioNs are invited for 02 vacancies in the above 
post in the auditor General’s department.  applications 
prepared as per specimen form appended to this 
notification should be addressed to the Auditor General, 
auditor General’s department, No.306/72, Polduwa Road, 
battaramulla and should be sent under registered post to 
reach him on or before 22nd october 2016. 
the top left-hand corner of the envelope should be 
clearly marked “Post of deputy auditor General”.
Note.–  (i) No complaints that an application form 
has been lost or delayed in the post will 
be  considered. applicants who delay their 
applications   until the last date will do so 
at their own risk.
 (ii)  overseas applicants may forward the 
application within the prescribed time, 
if they so desire to the office of the Sri 
Lanka Representative abroad assigned to 
or nearest to the country of their residence 
for transmission to the auditor General.
 (iii) medical Examination and Passage – if a sri 
Lankan applicant is selected from abroad 
for appointment under the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka, he will be 
required to present himself for examination 
by an approved medical  practitioner 
with a view to ascertaining whether he 
is physically fit for service. The fee for 
such examination as well as the cost of his 
passage to sri Lanka shall  be paid by 
the applicant. 
2. Terms of employment and Conditions of Service :-
 (i)  this post is permanent and   pensionable. you are 
required to pay 7% of your monthly earnings to 
the Widows’/Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension 
fund from the date of your  appointment.
 (ii)  if the applicant is holding a permanent and 
pensionable post in the Public service, the  
conditions attached to the present post will be 
applicable in relation to the pension.  
3. according to  schedule i of the Public administration 
circular No.03/2016 of 25th february 2016, the salary 
scale relating to this post is Rs.47,615 – 10 x 1335-
8x1630- 17x2170- Rs. 110,895.(sL-1-2016) the salary 
step relating to this post is Rs.80,515. 
However, the salaries  will be paid in accordance with 
schedule ii of the said circular.
 
Note.- the selected applicant will be placed at 
an appropriate step on the above salary  scale 
in consultation with the director General of 
Establishments depending on his qualifications 
and experience. 
4. Method of Recruitment.– an applicant possessing the 
following qualifications recommended by a Committee 
consisting of three public officers, one of whom shall be  
the auditor General, will be appointed by the Public 
service commission. 
the other two members of the committee will be 
appointed by the Public service commission on the 
recommendation of the auditor General. 
5. Required Qualifications.– Every applicant should 
furnish satisfactory proof that he/she-
 (a) is a sri Lankan ;
 (b) is of excellent moral character and physically 
sound ;
 (c) (i) should at least be an associate member 
of the institute of chartered accountants 
of sri Lanka or England and Wales or 
the chartered institute of management 
accountants of the united Kingdom or 
the Chartered Association of Certified 
accountants of the united Kingdom or a 
similar professional body.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2187
  (ii) Possesses 8 years post qualification 
experience.
  However, 
  (i) The period of post qualification experience 
will be reduced to 4 years in the case of 
applicants possessing 8 years’ experience 
in the staff grade in the Public service/
Provincial Public service/corporation 
service.
  (ii) The post qualification experience will not 
be required in the case of applicants from 
the sri Lanka audit service, possessing 
8 years’ service in the sri Lanka audit 
service of the auditor General’s 
department.
   (in arriving at the period of service for 
this purpose, study leave with full-pay, 
half-pay and no pay will not be taken into 
account)  
 (d) should not be more than 45 years of age on 22 
october 2016.
  (this age limit does not apply to applicants 
already holding appointments in the Public 
service/Provincial Public service/corporation 
service).
6. applicants will be required to produce any or all of 
the following documents when called upon to do so.  
 (a) Birth Certificate ;
  (N.B. – Baptismal Certificate or Birth 
Certificate issued for the purpose of the Code 
of Regulations for assisted schools will not 
be accepted.) 
 (b) Certificates of Educational, Professional and 
other qualifications ;
 (c) Certificates in regard to post professional 
qualification experience ;
 (d) Two recent character certificates ;
  (this is not applicable to applicants already 
in the Public service/Provincial Public 
service/corporation service).
 (e) Certificates of highest examinations passed 
in sinhala, tamil and English.
 Note.– (i)   documents or copies of documents 
should not be attached to the application. 
 (ii) applications of applicants who fail to 
produce documents when called upon to 
do so will not be considered. 
7. Applications from officers in the Public Service/
Provincial  Public service / corporation service should 
be forwarded to me through the respective Heads of 
Institutions and not personally to any officer in this office.   
8. the general conditions applicable to appointments to 
posts in the Public service published at the beginning of 
Part i: section ii (a) of this Gazette will be applicable to 
the recruitment to this post.    
9. The receipt of applications will be notified to the 
candidates within three weeks from the  closing date. if an 
acknowledgement is not received, it should immediately 
be notified to me.   
by order of the Public service commission, 
 
           H
.M gaMini Wijesinghe,
 auditor General.
  
No. 306/72, Polduwa Road,   
battaramulla,
06
th september 2016.
sPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
audiTor general’s deparTMenT
posT of depuTy audiTor general – sri lanka audiT 
service class i   grade i
 No. :……………….
 (For office use only)
01.  Name in full (in block letters; underline surname) :–––––––.
02. Postal address : - ……………….
03.  (a)  date of birth :
    year :–––––––, month :–––––––, date :––––––.
  (b)  age on 22nd october 2016 :
   y ears :––––––, months :––––––, days :––––––.
04. Nationality :––––––––––.
  (a) Whether a citizen of sri Lanka :––––––––––.
  (b) if a citizen of sri Lanka, state place of birth of :- 
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant’s father :––––––––––. 
  (iii) applicant’s paternal grandfather :–––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2188
05. Educational Qualifications :-
 examination/Degree Year Subject
06. Professional Qualifications :-
 Details Date of obtaining
  such qualifications
07. Particulars of Present Post:-
 (a) Post :––––––––––.
 (b) department / institution :––––––––––.
 (c) date of appointment :––––––––––.
 (d)  Whether Permanent/Pensionable/t emporary or 
on contract basis :––––––––––.
 (e) Whether confirmed in the Post :––––––––––.
 (f) annual salary scale :––––––––––.
 (g) Present annual salary :––––––––––.
08. Particulars of Employment in staff rank up to the date 
of obtaining Professional Qualifications:-
 Post and Nature Department/ From  To  Annual
 of Duties Institution   Salary
09. Particulars of Employment since obtaining Professional 
Qualifications:-
 Post and Nature Department/ From  To  Annual
 of Duties Institution   Salary
10. Highest Examination passed in:-
 sinhala :––––––––––. 
 t amil :––––––––––.
 English :––––––––––.
11. Name and address of two Referees :
  (i) ……………………………………
   ……………………………………
   ……………………………………
   ……………………………………
  (ii) ……………………………………
   ……………………………………
   ……………………………………
   ……………………………………
12.  Certificate of Applicant:-
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and accurate. i am also aware that 
if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
inaccurate, I am liable to disqualification if the discrepancy 
is discovered before selection and to dismissal without any 
compensation if detected after the appointment.
 ––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
13. Certificate of the Head of the Institute :
(only for applicants who are already in the Public 
service/ Provincial Public service / corporation service)
the application of mr./mrs./miss………………… 
….. is forwarded herewith. It is hereby confirmed that 
he/she has been working in this ministry/department/
corporation as a Permanent/t emporary/casual/contract 
basis employee since ……………… … and i inform that 
he/she can/cannot be released from the service, if he/she is 
selected for the post concerned.
 
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the secretary to the 
 ministry / Head of the department / 
 chairman of the corporation.
date :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
institute :––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2189
marking scheme for the recruitment to the post of deputy auditor General Grade i of class i of the sri Lanka 
audit service in terms of Paragraph  3.1 (a) of the sri Lanka audit service minute. 
01. Additional Professional Qualifications :  Maximum Marks 25
  (a)  For full professional qualifications in Accounting or Auditing achieved 
   in addition  to the basic qualifications(05 marks per professional 
   qualification) 10 Marks 
   
  (b)  For  professional qualifications achieved in another field or legal 
   field in addition  to the above mentioned fields(05 marks per 
   professional qualification) 10 Marks 
   
  (c)  For professional qualifications on Information Technology 
   (should have completed a recognized course) 05 marks 
   
02. Educational Qualifications   Maximum Marks 25
 doctorate  25 marks 
 master of Philosophy  20 marks 
 Postgraduate degree, master of science / master of arts  18 marks 
 Postgraduate diploma 15 marks 
 degree with a class 12 marks 
 special deg ree 10 marks 
 General degree  08 marks 
 diploma  05 marks 
   
 (Marks will be given only for the highest qualification) In case of above 
  qualifications achieved in accounting or auditing, 02 marks will be  
 given in addition to highest qualifications.    
   
03. Experience   maximum marks 40
  (a)  05 marks per year for external applicants after the completion 
   of 08 years in the service subsequent to  fulfilling the basic qualifications   
  (b)  05 marks per year for the officers in Public Service/Provincial 
   Public service/ corporation service after the completion of 04 years 
   in the service subsequent to  fulfilling the basic qualifications  
  (c) 05 marks per year for the officers in Audit Service subsequent to  
   fulfilling the basic qualifications  
  (d)  an applicant should be given 04 marks per year completed as 
   an officer in the Sri Lanka Audit Service and 02 marks per year 
   completed as an officer in the Sri Lanka Audit Examiners’ Service 
   of the auditor General’s department. However, marks should not 
   be given under both cases for the same period under paragraph (d) 
   to avoid duplication.    
  
04. for the interview   maximum marks 10
 (Marks will be given for special qualifications and other relevant skills) 
 
N.B.: The qualifications/skills considered for giving marks  should be stated in the Schedule of Interview. 
09–876

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2190
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  JuSTICE
Recruitment  to the Post of Interpreter, Grade III 
of the Labour Tribunals - 2016
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the citizens of sri 
Lanka with under mentioned qualifications to select 
suitable persons to fill three (03) vacancies in the post 
of interpreter (sinhala/t amil) and four (04) vacancies 
in the post of interpreter (sinhala/English) Grade iii of 
the Labour tribunals. application prepared as per the 
specimen appended at the end of this notice should be 
sent by registered post to reach the "secretary, ministry 
of Justice, superior courts complex, colombo 12" on or 
before the closing date of applications mentioned below. 
the words "Recruitment to the Post of interpreter (sinhala/
tamil) and (sinhala/English) Grade iii of the Labour 
tribunals" should be written on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope containing the application form. 
closing date of application is 21.10.2016. 
Note.-  No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been lost or 
delayed in the post can be considered. applicants 
who delay their applications until the last day will do 
so at their own risk. 
01. Mothod of Recruitment.- Recruitments will be based 
on the order of merit to be secured both at the written test 
and at the practical test to be conducted by an institution 
to be approved by the secretary to the ministry of Justice. 
02. Terms of engagement : 
 (i) this post is permanent. 
 (ii) selected candidate should be on probation for 
a period of three (03) years within which the 
first efficiency bar examination is required to be 
passed. The relevant efficiency bar examination 
will be conducted twice a year by the secretary 
to the ministry of Justice or an institution 
approved by  him. 
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in 
terms of the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and the circular issued incidental 
thereto, acquire the prescribed language 
proficiency within five (05) years of appointing 
to the post. The officer who enters the public 
service in a medium of language other than 
in a medium of any of the official language 
will require to reach within three (03) years a 
requisite standard of proficiency in one official 
language and within five (05) years in the other 
official language. 
 (iv) this appointment will be subject to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations, departmental orders 
and any other regulations. 
03. Salary Scale.- in terms of the Public administration 
circular No. 6/2006, this post which is under mN-1-2016 
carries a salary of Rs. 27,140 -10x300 -11x350 10x 495 
-10x 660 - Rs. 45,540 per month. the initial salary scale 
based on the grading system is Rs. 27,140. salaries will 
be paid in accordance with the 2nd schedule of the said 
circular. 
04. Qualifications.- 
 Every applicant -
 (i) should pass the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
in 6 subjects with 04 credits passes including 
mathematics and two languages for which 
the candidate will be recruited to interpret ; 
  and
  should pass at least one subject at the                      
G. c. E. (a/L) examination except for 
General common test.
 (ii) Professional Qualifications.- Not applicable. 
 (iii) experience.- Not applicable. 
05. Age limit.- should not be less than 18 years of age 
and not be more than 30 years of age as at the date of 
closing for applications. 
06. Physical fitness.- Every applicant should be in good 
mental and physical order to serve in any part of the island 
and to discharge the duties and functions of the post. 
07. Other Qualifications.- Every applicant must furnish 
satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she :
 (i) is a citizen of sri Lanka, 
 (ii) is of excellent moral character,
 (iii) Has fulfilled the necessary qualifications 
in every respect as at the date of closing for 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2191
applications referred to in this notice. copies 
of the certificates should be attached to the 
application to prove the qualifications. 
08. method based on which marks are awarded at the 
written test : 
 Subjects Maximum marks Pass
  that  could be given  Marks
interpretation into  100 40%
sinhala/tamil and vice 
versa or sinhala/English 
and vice versa
09. method based on which marks are awarded at the 
practical test : 
 Subjects Maximum marks Pass
  that  could be given  Marks
interpretation into  100 40%
sinhala/tamil and vice 
versa or sinhala/English 
and vice versa
Applicants who have fulfilled the basic qualifications 
will be called upon for the written test. applicants equal 
to twice the number of vacancies will be summoned for 
the practical test based on the order of merit to be secured 
at the written test. candidate's ability for simultaneous 
interpreting in respect of the languages which the candidate 
applies will be checked at the practical test. 
10. Basic qualifications will be checked on the date on 
which the practical test is conducted by the interview board 
to be appointed by the secretary to the ministry of Justice. 
11. Conditions of Service .- Every appointment is 
subjected to cabinet decisions, procedural rules of 
Public service commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka financial 
Regulations and any other departmental orders.
12. examination fee.-  Examinatio n fee of Rs. 300 
should be paid to the mid city branch, People's bank to 
be credited to the account No. 176-1-001-9-9025184 of 
ministry of Justice. Examination fee is not refundable 
under any circumstances. 
13. (i) applications should be prepared on a a4 
paper of 22x29cm in size using both sides and 
items from 01 to 12 to appear on the first page 
and on the second page from item 13 onwards 
and it should be filled by the candidate's own 
legible handwriting. applications which are 
not in conformity with the specimen appended 
at the end of this notice or are received after 
the closing date of acceptance of applications 
are liable to be rejected without notice. 
incomplete applications and applications of 
applicants who do not possess the prescribed 
minimum requirements will also be rejected. 
therefore, applicants should see that their 
applications are as per the specimen in 
every respect. further, it is advisable that a 
copy of the application is retained with the 
applicant. Receipt of applications will not be 
acknowledged. 
Note. applications of applicants who fail to produce 
documents when required to do so will not be 
considered. 
 (ii) Applications from officers attached to 
Public service/Provincial Public service/
corporations are required to be forwarded 
through their respective to the secretaries 
ministries/Heads of the department.
14. Procedural Rules of the Public service commission, 
circulars that are now if force or may be issued from 
time to time in the future and the scheme of Recruitment 
applicable to the post of interpreter of the Labour tribunals 
and the amendments made thereto from time to time shall 
be applicable to this post. 
 
padMasiri jayaManna, 
 secretary, 
 ministry of Justice. 
31st august, 2016. 
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm 
MinisTry of jusTice
 No. : 
 For office use only
(sinhala/tamil)
(sinhala/English)
applicaTion for The posT of inTerpreTer, labour Tribunals
01. (a) Name with initials (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––.
   Names denoted by initials (in English block 
capitals) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'09'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.09.2016
2192
  (b) full Name (in sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––.
   full Name (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
02. Permanent address (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
03. Permanent address (in English block capitals) :––––.
04. telephone No. :––––––––––.
05. National identity card No. : 
06. sex :––––––––––.
07. date of birth :  
 y ear :––––––––. month :––––––––. date :––––––––.
08. age as at the closing date of applications :
  y ears :––––––––. months :––––––––. days :–––––––.
09. Nationality :––––––––––.
10. marital status :––––––––––.
11. Results at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
 index No. :––––––––––. y ear :––––––––––.
 Grade for sinhala/tamil/English Language :––––––––.
 Grade for mathematics :––––––––––.
 subject :–––– Grade :–––– subject :–––– Grade :–––– 
 subject :–––– Grade :–––– subject :–––– Grade :–––– 
 subject :–––– Grade :–––– subject :–––– Grade :–––– 
 subject :–––– Grade :–––– subject :–––– Grade :–––– 
12. Results at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
 index No. :––––––––––. y ear :––––––––––.
 subject :–––– Grade :–––– subject :–––– Grade :–––– 
 subject :–––– Grade :–––– subject :–––– Grade :–––– 
13. Other Qualifications :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
14. Language proficiency (Mark " " in the relevant box) :
 Very Good Good Ordinary Weak
sinhala
tamil
English 
Candidate's Declaration 
1, ............................................ declare that the 
particulars furnished by me in this application are true 
and correct. i certify that i have not been subjected to 
any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from 
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a 
merciful alternative to dismissal and i have not vacated 
the post previously. i am also aware that, if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, i am 
liable to disqualification, if detected before selection 
and to dismissal without compensation, if detected after 
appointment. 
 
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i do hereby inform that mr./mrs./miss ....................
........................ the applicant, is serving in this ministry/
department/Labour tribunal as a .............................. 
with effect from .......................................... and that the 
particulars furnished by him/her in this application are 
true and correct and that he/she has fulfilled the minimum 
requirements as per the notice of calling for applications 
and that he/she can be/cannot be released, if selected for 
this post. 
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the 
 Department and official seal. 
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
ministry/department :––––––––––.
09-886
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.