

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 209
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 202
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"005 – 2017 fmnrjdß ui 03 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'02'03
No. 2,005 –  fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy  03, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd february, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th  february, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
199
Note.–  Kelaniya ashokarama Silumini foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 20, 2017. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
200
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
201
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
202
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  AIR  fORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies 
VacaNciES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular air force for 
Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following 
branches :–
 (a) General duties Pilot branch (Male/female) ;
 (b) technical Engineering branch (Male) ;
 (c) Electronics Engineering branch (Male) ;
 (d) Logistics branch (Male/female) ;
 (e) administrative branch (Male/female) ;
 (f) administrative Regiment branch (Male) ;
 (g) Operations Air Branch (Air Traffic Controller) 
(Male). 
2. applications are invited from male/female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below : 
bSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant 
Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir 
John kotelawala Defence university)
General Duties Pilot/Operations Air branches 
(Air Traffic Controller) :
 a minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. o/L 
examination with four credits including credit 
passes in English language, Mathematics, 
Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil 
language in one sitting and ordinary passes in 
three subjects at the G. c. E. a/L examination 
in Physical/Science Stream (Physics, chemistry, 
combined Maths) bio Science stream (Physics, 
chemistry, biology) (as applicable) in one 
sitting. 
Technical Engineering/Electronic Engineering 
branches :
 a  minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. o/L 
examination with four credits including credit 
passes in English Language, Mathematics, 
Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil 
language in one sitting and ordinary passes in 
three subjects at the G. c. E. a/L examination 
in Physical Science Stream (Physics, chemistry, 
combined maths) in one sitting. 
Logistics/Administrative/Administrative Regiment 
branches :
 a  minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. o/L 
examination with four credits including credit 
passes in English language, Mathematics, 
Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil 
language in one sitting and ordinary passes in 
three subjects at the G. c. E. a/L examination 
in Physical Science/bio Science/commerce 
technology Streams in one sitting. Students 
of the arts Stream with a minimum of three 
ordinary passes at the G. c. E. a/L examination 
are also eligible to apply for the administrative 
Regiment branch. 
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri 
Lanka Regular air force.
 (a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (b) age : Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years as at 20th 
May, 2017
 (c) Height : Male - 5' 6" and above
   : female - 5' 4" and above
 (d) Weight : Male - 17 < bMi < 26
    female - 17 < Mbi < 25
     Weight (Kg)
    bMi = –––––––––
     Height2 (m)
 (e) chest : Male - 32" (Minimum)
 (f) colour Vision  : cP2
  Standard
 (g) Visual acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles)
 (h) civil Status : candidates must be unmarried. 
No cadet will be permitted to 
marry whilst under training 
and for a further period of 
one (1) year from the date of 
commissioning. 
4. due considerations will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will 
be measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
203
are below the standard specified in the Gazette notification 
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skill or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the commander of the 
air force be considered even though he/she may not have 
the requisite height provided he/she possess the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications. 
6. Conditions of service : 
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air force 
as a cadet on a regular engagement in the same 
manner as for other ranks and will undergo a 
basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the branch, the status allocated on his/
her enlistment as an other Rank will lapse and 
will receive a permanent commission in the rank 
of Pilot Officer. 
 (b) cadets will be requried to undergo training at a 
place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the air force in consultation with 
the Ministry of defence. 
 (c) during the period of training as cadets and 
thereafter, personnel will be subject to air force 
Law.
 (d) Every cadet will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities. 
 (e) during the period of training, a cadet will be 
accommodated in an air force Mess and will be 
provided with food. 
 (f) in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating 
his/her candidature for a commission during 
training, the parent or guardian will be required to 
refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri 
Lanka on account of such cadet. 
 (g) if at any time during his/her course a cadet is 
reported by the authorities as being unsuitable 
for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within 
his/her control to quality for a commission, his/
her parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Sri Lanka air force all expenses incurred 
on his/her training and will be required to enter 
into a bond to this effect with the commander of 
the air force acting on behalf of the Government 
of Sri Lanka. 
 (h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 27 of the application form in respect of 
sub-paragraphs (f) and (g) above and forward 
them together with the application. Parent or 
guardian will be required to enter in to a bond 
subsequently in this form with the Republic 
of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these 
candidates as cadets. 
 (j) candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 2 and 3 will be called for the preliminary 
interview and if successful will be called for the 
officer quality tests. Candidates who pass the 
officer quality tests will be called for Medical 
Examinations (all candidates selected will be 
medically examined under Sri Lanka air force 
arrangements) and if applicable flying aptitude 
tests. candidates who successfully complete 
these tests will be called for the final interview. 
the required number of candidates per branch 
will be selected according to merit at these 
interviews and tests. 
 (k) A single officer is required to live in the officers 
mess. He/she is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. batman service will 
be provided. A single officer's ration allowance 
and batman allowance are paid to the Mess. 
 (l) A married Officer may be provided with a 
married quarter if available. Recovery of rental 
will be as applicable to public servants. 
 (m) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
 (n) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act 
and roders issued from time to time. 
7. Official Language Requirements.- the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the language policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
204
8. Pay and Allowances : 
 (a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at present and same revision completes in year 2020, followings 
are the amounts payable in 2017. further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the 
initial step of particular rank. 
  Year 2017 Adjustment 2020
  Rank (Annum) Allowance 2017 (Annum)
    (Annum)
  Officer Cadets 267,996.00 77,148.00 388,560.00
  Pilot Officer (Cadet) 319,404.00 68,796.00 463,260.00
  Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 346,764.00 64,476.00 502,860.00
  Flying Officer 393,684.00 56,580.00 571,380.00 - (30x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
  flight Lieutenant 459,996.00 45,996.00 667,500.00 - (24x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
  Squadron Leader 504,204.00 38,940.00 731,580.00 - (22x16,020) = 1,084,020.00
  
 (b) Other Allowances : 
 1. cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
 2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service. 
 3. Hard allowance Rs. 620 per month. 
 4. additional Hard allowance Rs. 4,380 per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 5. Special allowance Rs. 3,100 per month (Rs. 100 will be paid for per day).
 6. interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month. 
 7. uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month. 
 8. batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
 9. Ration allowance Rs. 16,676.14 per month (if permitted to live out Rs. 537.94 per day). 
 10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month). 
 11. three sets of holiday Railway warrants per year (for officer, spouse and children).
 12. An additional set of Railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes to travel 
from the Mess to the hometown once a month. 
 13. free issue of uniforms and ancillary items. 
 14. free medical facilities (including for families if applicable). 
 15. Married Officers permitted to live-out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work 
within 30 miles radius. 
 16. flying pay will be paid for those who are in the General duties Pilot branch. 
 17. Engineering allowances pay will be paid for those who are in the applicable to Engineering Officers only.
 18. Rent Allowances for married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to 
Group captain and above Rs. 1,600 to  Rs. 4,250 per month. 
9. Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the air force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of 
contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
205
10. Instructions to Applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicant's 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
completed neatly with as much details as possible. 
applications should be forwarded under registered 
cover to : "Command Recruiting Officer, Sri 
Lanka air force trade training School, Ekala, 
Kotugoda" so as to reach him not later than 
1200 noon on 15th febuary 2017. the envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked 
"application for cadetship/Lady cadetship in the 
.................. branch". a candidate will be allowed 
to apply for only one branch, those who apply 
for more than one branch the applications will be 
rejected. applications received after the closing 
date and not in accordance with the requirements 
of this notification and not in registered post mail 
will not be entertained. 
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/boards/civil Establishments should 
  forward their applications through their                 
Heads of department/corporations/boards/civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to 
the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to 
do so :
 1. Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate 
issued for the purpose of the education code 
will not be accepted) ;
 2. Certificates in support of the educational 
qualifications required for the branch applied 
for; 
 3. Certificates of trade/technical training and/
or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution ;
 4. Two recent certificates of character. One of 
these should be from the principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has the know of the 
applicant for more than two years or from 
the present employer (if employed).
 5. Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc. ;
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered. 
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form. 
 (f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form. 
11. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection. 
12. Selection Interviews etc. :
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. 
candidates so selected will be required to undergo 
tests as may be prescribed by the commander 
of the Air Force. The final selection will then 
be made after an interview of those selected 
candidates by a selection board appointed by the 
Ministry of defence. 
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date of 
such interviews. travelling or other expenses will 
not be paid in this respect. 
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he/she is to produce his/her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons. 
 (d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final 
interviews will be required to present themselves 
before an air force Medical board. 
 (e) any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate. 
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified. 
 
KVB Jayampathy,
 air Marshal, 
 commander of the air force. 
Headquarters, 
Sri Lanka air force, 
P. o. box 594, 
colombo 02. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
206
aPPLicatioN foR officER cadEt/Lady 
officER cadEt iN tHE ........................... bRaNcH 
of tHE  SRi LaNKa aiR foRcE
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
 3. National  identity card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 5. Postal address :–––––––––––.
 6. date of birth :–––––––––––.
  (age as at 20th May 2017) :
   y ears :––––––,  Months :–––––––,  days :–––––––.
 7. Height :–––––'––––––".
 8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 9. district :–––––––––––.
 10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 11. Grama Seva division :–––––––––––.
 12. telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 13. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
 14. Gender :–––––––––––.
 15. School attended :––––––––––––.
 16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year of  Subjects passed
 School examination examination (including
     grading)
 ordinary 
  Level
 advanced 
  Level
 other
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving School (if 
applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 18. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 father 
 Mother 
 19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 20. details of current achievement in sports. (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/
years etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 21. other achievements of note at School or with outside 
organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) : 
–––––––––––.
 22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or boy Scout organization :                
–––––––––––.
 23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so 
give details and the outcome of such applications : 
–––––––––––.
 24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 25. if earlier employed in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/board/corporation (including 
the central bank, National  bank, universities, Joint 
Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.,) 
reasons for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 26. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 27. declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
207
the Sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the 
Repubilc of Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
28.  declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of 
the applicant :
 (a) i am the parent/guardian of ........................... who 
is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka air 
force and who has signed the declaration in cage 
27 of the form of application above. 
 (b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following. 
 (1) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in 
the event of the above named applicant 
voluntarily terminating his/her candidature 
for a commission during his/her period of 
training all expenses incurred upto that time by 
the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such 
applicant. 
 (2) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by the authorities as being unsuitable 
(for reasons of misconduct or due to causes 
within his/her own control) for the issue of a 
commission all the expenses incurred on his/
her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Parent/Guardian. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of first Witness. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Second Witness. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
address :–––––––––––.
02–191
–––––––––––––––
NATIONAL EDuCATION COmmISSION - RECRuITmENTS
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible Sri Lankan citizens for posts of Administrative Officer and Management 
assistants of the National Education commission.
01. Common Conditions :
 (i) the applicant must have an excellent character,
 (ii) the applicant should not a person who have subject to a punishment for any offence. 
 (iii) the age should not be less than 18 years and should not be over than 45 years for the closing date 
of applications. (this age limit is not applicable for the applicants who are from government/                      
semi-government sector).
 (iv) the applicants should strong enough physically and mentally to provide a productive service at any 
part of the country. 
02. Service Conditions.- these posts are permanent and eligible for EPf and Etf. the appointment is subject to 
a three year probation period. all the rules and regulations are applicable as per the relevant public sector conditions. the 
positions will be filled through a systematic process on the basis of service requirements. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
208
03. Details of positions : 
1. designation
1.1 Salary Scale
1.2 Qualifications
Administrative Officer - Grade II
JM-1-1-2016 (Rs. 42,600 - 10x755 -18x1,135 - Rs. 70,580)
(i) A degree in Management, Accountancy or similar field from a university recognized 
by the uGc. 
(ii) Three year experience in relevant field (Establishment Code and finance 
regulations)
(iii) Fluency in using computer software (special in finance activities) will be a special 
qualification. 
(iv) ability to work in Secondary Language.
(v) Higher knowledge on financial regulations and Establishment Code and procument 
procedure will be an additional qualification. 
2. designation 
2.1 Salary Scale
2.2 Qualifications
Management assistant - Grade iii
Ma 1-1-2016 (Rs. 27,910 -10x300 -7x350 -4x495 - 20x660- Rs. 48,540)
(i) G. c. E. (o/L) six (06) subject in one sitting with four credit passes for language 
(Sinhala/tamil), Mathematics and two other subjects. 
(ii) G. c. E. (a/L) three subjects (except the general test) in one sitting. 
(iii) one year diploma in computer application from a public sector institution on 
an institution recognized by tertiary and V ocational Education commission 
(tVEc)
Special Qualifications : 
a successful completion of an accountancy course from a government recognized 
institution will be an additional qualification (for accounts division)
duly completed applications should be forwarded under registered cover to reach the following address on or 
before 17.02.2017 chairman, National Education commission, No. 126, Nawala Road, Nugegoda. the post of applying 
should be appeared at top left corner of the envelope. incomplete and application received after the closing date will be 
rejected. 
applicants from government/semi-government sector should proceed the applications through the Head of 
institution. 
The National Education Commission has the authority to fill, not to fill or to partially fill the vacancies available. 
Only the applicants who have completed the basic qualifications will be considered for the recruitment process. 
* To be considered.- the institute established in No. 126, Nawala Road, Nugegoda and no branches. 
this Gazette notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. If there is any incompliance, the 
Sinhala version is applicable. 
 Prof. LaKshman JayatiLLeKe, 
 chairman, 
 National Education commission. 
No. 126, Nawala Road, 
Nugegoda. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
209
Specimen Application form 
aPPLicatioN foR tHE PoSt of ............................. 
at NatioNaL EducatioN coMMiSSioN 
01. 1.1 full Name :–––––––––––.
  1.2 Name with initials Mr./Mrs. :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
03. telephone No. :–––––––––––.
04. Nic Number :–––––––––––.
05.  5.1 birth day : 
   y ear :–––––––. Month :–––––––. date :–––––––.
  5.2 age for the closing date : 
   y ears :––––––. Months :––––––. days :––––––.
06. Gender :–––––––––––.
07. Source of citizenship (by birth or registered) :––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications : 
 8.1  Details of the Degree Qualification (If applicable) :
   degree :–––––––––––.
   university :–––––––––––.
   y ear and medium of the degree :–––––––––––.
   degree subjects :–––––––––––.
   External or internal :–––––––––––.
  8.2 G. c. E. (a/L) :
Subject Pass
 8.3  G. c. E. (o/L) :
Subject Pass
09. Additional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
10. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. Service Experience :–––––––––––.
12. i do hereby state that the particulars furnished by me in 
the application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to bear the punishments including 
loss of the post resulted from submission of incomplete 
and incorrect information. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
13. Certification of the Head of Department (for applicants 
who are the service already) :
Mr./Mrs. .................................... is performing his/her 
duties at this institution as a ........................ the details 
he/she is providing herewith are correct. if he/she will be 
selected for the position he/she can be/cannot be released. 
there is no disciplinary action on the process against him/
her. the application is recommended/not recommended. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature and Stamp. 
date :–––––––––––.
02-123
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTmENT Of GOvERNmENT INfORmATION 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Posts of Technical Assistant of the Segment - 3 of 
management Assistant (Technical) Category (mT 01-2016) at the Department of 
Government Information - 2017
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified Male/Female candidates for recruitment to 04 posts of Technical Assistant of 
Segment - 3 of Management assistant (technical) category (Mt 01-2016) under the open stream at the department of 
Government information. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
210
01. Method of Recruitment.- Qualified candidates selected upon the rank obtained in a written examination, 
which either will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations or by an institution approved by the director 
General of Government Information, would be appointed to following fields :-
01 Still photography
02 Video shooting
03 Editing
04 Sound technology
05 Vehicle maintenance
06 Electrical equipment maintenance 
07 building maintenance 
02. Nature of the Post.- Permanent and pensionable. 
03. Salary Code : Mt-01-2016.
 Salary Scale : Rs. 29,840 -10x300 -11x350 -10x560 - 10x660 - Rs. 48,890 (according to P. a. circular              
No. 03/2016).
04. Educational and Professional Qualifications : 
Post Technical Assistant
Educational 
Qualifications
Shall pass G. c. E. (o/L) in six subjects at less than two sittings including Language or 
Literature, Mathematics and Science
Professional 
Qualifications
Shall successfully complete a technical course relevant to the respected field, which suit 
the NVQ level 5 and accredited by the tertiary and V ocational Education commission. 
fields include Still photography, Video shooting, editing, Sound technology, Motor vehicle 
maintenance and electrical equipment maintenance and building maintenance. 
05. Physical Qualifications.- Each candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and to discharge duties of the post. 
06. Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Should possess an excellent character,
 (iii) Should have obtained all qualifications mentioned above that require to be appointed to the post 
before the date mentioned in the vacancy notice/Gazette. 
07. Age.- Should not be less than 18 years and not over 35 years of age on the closing date of applications. 
08. Written examination.- this examination will be held in Sinhala and tamil mediums either by the commissioner 
General of Examinations or by an institution approved by the director General of Government information only in 
colombo. 
Subject Syllabus Time Total
Marks
Pass
Mark
01 intelligence test consists of multiple-choice questions 
to assess the logical thinking, analytical 
thinking and decision-making ability of the 
candidate
01 hour 100 40
02 Subject wise 
examination
consists of multiple-choice and structured 
questions relevant to respective posts
01 hour 100 40

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
211
09. General Interview.- Will be held only to examine 
qualifications and no marks will be granted in the interview. 
10. Conditions of the Service .- all appointments are 
subject to conditions stipulated in Procedural Rules 
published in the Gazette No. 1589/30 and dated 20.02.2009 
by the Public Service commission and provisions in the 
Establishments code. 
11. applications should be prepared according to the 
specimen form of application given at the end of this 
notice using both sides of an a4 sheet by including No. 
1 to 5 in the first page and rest in second and third pages. 
application should be prepared in the respected medium, 
which the candidate is expecting to sit for the examination. 
applications that do not comply with directions of this 
notice will be rejected. 
12. Reception of applications will not be informed to 
the candidate. applications received after the closing date 
will not be accepted. 
13. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination 
and will be informed to the address stated in the application 
before two weeks of the examination : 
 (i) complaints on misplacements or delays in the 
post are not entertained,
 (ii) complaints regarding applications sent to 
other addresses apart “director General of 
Government information, department of 
Government information, No. 163, Kirulapona 
avenue, colombo 05” will not be entertained, 
 (iii) candidates who are already in the Public 
Service should apply through their respective 
heads of institutions. the Head of the 
institution should certify that the candidate 
would be released from his existing post after 
being selected,
 (iv) it will be useful to keep a photocopy of the 
application,
 (v) Sending an admission card does not mean 
that, the candidate has been considered as 
fulfilled his qualifications. 
14. if a candidate does not receive the admission card 
prior to 07 days to the date of examination, inform to 
“director General of Government information, department 
of Government information, No. 163, Kirulapona avenue, 
colombo 05” with following details (t elephone - 011-
2514266, fax - 011-2514092) :
 * Request letter,
 * Name of the Examination,
 * full name of candidate,
 * National identity card Number,
 * Postal address of the candidate,
 * Photocopy of the application,
 * Post office, registration number and the date 
which the application was posted,
 * Photocopy of the receipt which examination 
fees has been paid,
 * fax number of the candidate, which the 
admission card is to be sent. 
15. Method of Application : 
 (a) applications prepared according to the 
following specimen should be sent by 
registered post to reach “director General 
of Government information, department of 
Government information, No. 163, Kirulapona 
avenue, colombo 05” before 03.03.2017. 
cite, “open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of technical assistant” 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope, in 
which the application form is enclosed. 
 (b) closing date for sending applications is 
03.03.2017.
 (c) Each candidate should pay an examination fee 
of Rs. 1,000 by a Money order addressed to 
director General of Government information, 
department of Government information, 
No. 163, Kirulapona avenue, colombo 05, 
payable at the General Post Office, Colombo. 
Examination fees will not be refunded under 
any circumstances. 
16. Attestation of Signature.- candidate's 
signature should be attested by an officer in the Sri 
Lanka administrative Service/Sri Lanka Education 
administrative Service/Sri Lanka accountant's Service/a 
Principal of a Government school/Justice of the Peace/
Attorney at Law or a Government Officer in Tertiary or 
Senior Level according to the Service categorization in the 
Public administration circular No. 06/2006.
Note : 
 * candidate should certify that questionnaire of the 
application is duly filled in and all particulars are 
given correct. 
 * Certified copies of relevant certificates should be 
attached. 
 * Every officer recruited accordingly shall be 
subject to general conditions governing public 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
212
officers, Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka, provisions of the Establishments 
code, policies enacted by the department of 
Government information, financial Regulations, 
other Government Regulations and orders made 
by the government from time to time. 
 * the director General of Government information 
has the inclusive authority of filling all or a 
decided quantity of vacancies. 
 * decision of the director General of Government 
Information is the final decision on any matter not 
covered by this notification and on any doubtful 
matter regarding recruitment to these posts. in 
case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, 
tamil and English versions of the Gazette 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 Dr. 
Ranga KaLansooRiya, 
 director General of 
 Government information. 
department of Government information, 
No. 163, Kirulapona avenue, colombo, 
on 13th of January, 2017. 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoStS of SEGMENt - 3 
of MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNt (tEcHNicaL) 
catEGoRy (Mt 01-2016) at tHE dEPaRtMENt 
of GoVERNMENt iNfoRMatioN - 2017
field applying for : 
Medium of the Examination :
 Sinhala - 01
 t amil - 02
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
01.  1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs/Miss :––––––––.
   (in English block Letters 
   e.g.: Mr./Mrs./Miss. SiLVa a. b.)
  1.2 Name in full :––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
  1.3 Name in full :––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
02.  2.1 address (Personal) :––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
  2.2 address (Personal) :––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
03.  3.1 date of birth : 
   y ear : Month : d ate :
  3.2 age as at closing date :
   y ears :  Months :  days :
04. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
05. Gender :––––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications : 
  (a)  G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
   y ear :––––––––––. 
   index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
  (b) Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
 
  (c) Other Qualifications  :––––––––––.
07. Particulars of the receipt, which the examination fee 
is paid : 
  (i) The office to which the examination fee is paid  
:––––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. and date  :––––––––––.
  (iii) Paid amount  :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt here as not to be detached Rs. 1,000

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
213
08. Certification of the applicant : 
i  declare that the information given herein are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. i 
am also aware if i have provided any false information, 
my candidature will be cancelled before or after the 
examination and if so found after selection i am liable to 
be dismissed from the service. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date  :––––––––––.
09. attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. is known 
to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ............................
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting officer. 
Name in full  :––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––.
Official Stamp  :––––––––––.
02–87
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of GOvERNmENT INfORmATION 
Open Competitive Examination for  Recruitment to Post of Technical Officer (Building Renovations 
and maintenance) of the management Assistant Supervisory Technical Category (mN-03-2016) at the 
Department of Government Information - 2017
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified male/female candidates for recruitment to 01 post of Technical Officer 
(building Renovations and Maintenance) of the Supervision Management assistant (technical) category (MN-03-2016) 
at the department of Government information under the open stream.
01. Qualified candidates selected upon the rank obtained in a written examination, which will be held by an 
institution approved by the director General of Government information, would be appointed to the post of technical 
Officer (Building Renovations and Maintenance).
02. Educational and Professional Qualifications : 
Post Technical Officer (Building Renovations and Maintenance)
Educational 
Qualifications
(i) Shall pass G. c. E. (a/L) in one sitting in three science subjects including Physics/chemistry.
(ii) Shall pass G. c. E. (o/L) in six subjects in one sitting with credit passes for Sinhala/t amil/
English, Science, Mathematics and another subject. 
Professional 
Qualifications
National diploma in technology awarded by the university of Moratuwa or Hardy institute, 
ampara or the National diploma in Engineering Science awarded by the National apprentice 
and industrial training authority ;
or
Higher National diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Education and Higher 
Education  ;
or
diploma in technology awarded by the open university of Sri Lanka ;
or
Successfully completing the part i of the Engineering Examination conducted by the institute of 
Engineers Sri Lanka ;
or
Successfully complete the qualification in NVQ level 6 related to building renovation and 
maintenance (civil Engineering) ;
or
Other technical qualifications accepted as equivalent to above qualifications by the Tertiary and 
V ocational Education Commission after consultation with above certificate offering institutes.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
214
03. Physical Qualifications.- Each candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and to discharge duties of the post. 
04. Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Should possess an excellent character,
 (iii) Should have obtained all qualifications mentioned above that require to be appointed to the post 
before the date mentioned in the vacancy notice/Gazette. 
05. Age.- Should not be less than 18 years and not over 30 years of age on the closing date of applications. 
06. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitments will be made on results of a written examination and a general 
interview. 
07. Written examination.- this examination will be held in Sinhala and tamil mediums by an institution approved 
by the director General of Government information only in colombo. 
Subject Syllabus Time Total
Marks
Pass
Mark
01 intelligence test consists of multiple-choice questions 
to assess the logical thinking, analytical 
thinking and decision-making ability of the 
candidate
01 hour 100 40
02 General Paper (Subject 
wise technical 
examination)
consists of multiple-choice and structured 
questions relevant to the  posts
01 hour 100 40
08. General Interview.- an interview board appointed by the director General of Government information will 
only examine qualifications and no marks will be granted in the interview. 
09. Salary Scale.– Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550. 
10. Conditions of the Service :- 
 * Recruited officer should agree to serve in any part of the island,
 * the post is permanent and pensionable,
 * appointed candidate should contribute to the Widows and orphans Pension Scheme. 
11. applications should be prepared according to the specimen form of application given at the end of this notice 
using both sides of an A4 sheet by including No. 1 to 5 in the first page and rest in second and third pages. Application 
should be prepared in the respected medium, which the candidate is expecting to sit for the examination. applications that 
do not comply with directions of this notice will be rejected. 
12. Reception of applications will not be informed to the candidate. applications received after the closing date 
will not be accepted. 
13. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination and will be informed to the address stated in the 
application before two weeks of the examination : 
 (i) compla ints on misplacements or delays in the post are not entertained.
 (ii) complaints regarding applications sent to other addresses apart "director General of Government information, 
department of Government information, No. 163, Kirulapona avenue, colombo 05" will not be entertained. 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
215
 (iii) candidates who are already in the public 
service should apply through their respective 
heads of institutions. the Head of the 
institution should certify that the candidate 
would be released fro his existing post after 
being selected. 
 (iv) it will be useful to keep a photocopy of the 
application. 
 (v) Sending an admission card does not mean 
that, the candidate has been considered as 
fulfilled his qualifications. 
14. if a candidate does not receive the admission card 
prior to 07 days to the date of examination, inform to 
"director General of Government information, department 
of Government information, No. 163, Kirulapona avenue, 
colombo 05" with following details (t elephone - 011-
2514266, fax - 011-2514092).
 * Request letter
 * Name of the Examination
 * full name of candidate
 * National identity card Number
 * Postal address of the candidate
 * Photocopy of the application
 * Post office, registration number and the date which 
the application was posted
 * Photocopy of the receipt which examination fees 
has been paid
 * fax number of the candidate, which the admission 
card is to be sent. 
15. Method of Application : 
 (a) applications prepared according to the 
following specimen should be sent by 
registered post to reach "director General 
of Government information, department of 
Government information, No. 163, Kirulapona 
avenue, colombo 05" before 03.03.2017. 
cite, "open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the post of Technical Officer 
(building Renovation and Maintenance" on 
the top left hand corner of the envelope, in 
which the application form is enclosed. 
 (b) closing date for sending applications is 
03.03.2017.
 (c) Each candidate should pay an examination fee 
of Rs. 1,000 by a Money order addressed to 
director General of Government information, 
department of Government information, 
No. 163, Kirulapone avenue, colombo 05, 
payable at the General Post Office, Colombo. 
Examination fees will not be refunded under 
any circumstances. 
16. Attestation of Signature.- candidate's 
signature should be attested by an officer in the Sri 
Lanka administrative Service/Sri Lanka Education 
administrative Service/Sri Lanka accountant's Service/a 
Principal of a government school/Justice of the Peace/
Attorney at Law or a Government Officer in Tertiary or 
Senior Level according to the Service categorization in the 
Public administration circular No. 06/2006.
Note : 
 * candidate should certify that questionnaire of the 
application is duly filled in and all particulars are 
given correct. 
 * Certified copies of relevant certificates should be 
attached. 
 * Every officer recruited accordingly shall be 
subject to general conditions governing public 
officers, Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka, provisions of the Establishments 
code, policies enacted by the department of 
Government information, financial Regulations, 
other Government Regulations and orders made 
by the government from time to time. 
 * the director General of Government information 
has the inclusive authority of filling all or a 
decided quantity of vacancies. 
 * decision of the director General of Government 
Information is the final decision on any matter not 
covered by this notification and on any doubtful 
matter regarding recruitment to these posts. in 
case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, 
tamil and English versions of the Gazette 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 dr. 
Ranga KaLansooRiya, 
 director General of 
 Government information. 
department of Government information, 
No. 163, Kirulapona avenue, colombo, 
on 13th date of Month of January, 2017. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
216
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of tEcHNicaL 
officER (buiLdiNG RENoVatioNS aNd 
MaiNtENaNcE) of tHE MaNaGEMENt 
aSSiStaNt SuPERViSoRy tEcHNicaL 
catEGoRy (MN-03-2016) at tHE dEPaRtMENt 
of GoVERNMENt iNfoRMatioN - 2017
field applying for : 
Medium of the Examination :
 Sinhala - 01
 t amil - 02
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
01.  1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs/Miss :––––––––.
   (in English block Letters 
   e.g.: Mr./Mrs./Miss. SiLVa  a. b.)
  1.2 Name in full :––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
  1.3 Name in full :––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
02.  2.1 address (Personal) :––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
  2.2 address (Personal) :––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
03.  3.1 date of birth : 
   y ear : Month : d ate :
  3.2 age as at closing date :
   y ears :  Months :  days :
04. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
05. Gender :––––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications : 
  (a)  G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
   y ear :––––––––––. 
   index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
  (b)  G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
   y ear :––––––––––. 
   index No. :––––––––––. 
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
07. Professional Qualifications/Technical Qualifications : 
  7.1 obtained degree/diploma  :––––––––––.
  7.2 institution which the degree/diploma was 
awarded  :––––––––––.
  7.3 date of validity of the degree/diploma  :                    
––––––––––.
08. Other qualifications and experience :––––––––––.
09. Particulars of the receipt, which the examination fee 
is paid : 
  (i) The office to which the examination fee is paid  
:––––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. and date  :––––––––––.
  (iii) Paid amount  :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt here as not to be detached Rs. 1,000
10. Certification of the applicant : 
i  declare that the information given herein are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. i 
am also aware if i have provided any false information, 
my candidature will be cancelled before or after the 
examination and if so found after selection i am liable to 
be dismissed from the service. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date  :––––––––––.
11. attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. is known 
to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ............................
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting officer. 
Name in full  :––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––.
Official stamp  :––––––––––.
02–88

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
217
DEPARTmENT  Of  ANImAL  
PRODuCTION  AND hEALTh 
Competitive Examination for the admission to the 
Sri Lanka School of Animal husbandry – 2017
tWo yEaR diPLoMa iN aNiMaL HuSbaNdRy 
(foR tHE acadEMic yEaRS 2017/2019)
aPPLicatioNS are being called for the competitive 
examination for the admission of students for the 
academic year 2017/2019, to follow the diploma 
course in animal Husbandry at the schools of animal 
Husbandry in Karandagolla and Seeppukulam conducted 
by the department of animal Production and Health. this 
examination will be held in Kandy in March, 2017 in 
Sinhala, tamil and English Medium. 
02. Two year Diploma Course : 
2.1 the course will be conducted in Sinhala/t amil 
and English Medium. 
2.2 the diploma course is purely a vocational 
training course (in case of obtaining a government 
employment, the extra qualifications specified 
in the Scheme of Recruitment relevant to the 
particular post are essential in addition to these 
professional qualifications.)
2.3 Students will be paid a daily residential 
allowance during the period of training.
2.4 classes may be held on Saturdays and Sundays 
and students will be allowed to leave their hostel 
in one weekend of the month. 
03. Qualifications required for Admission :
3.1 (a) Should have passed the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level) in not more than 
two sittings with six (06) subjects including 
four (04) credit passes in language (Sinhala/
tamil), Maths, Science and one other subject. 
at this, should have passed at least 05 
subjects in one sitting with credit passes for 
three subjects ; 
and 
  should have passed the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) in one sitting in 
three subjects from among the bio Science 
stream subjects of chemistry, Physics, agri-
Science and biology. (priority will be given 
to the applicants who have fulfilled these 
qualifications) ; 
or
 (b) Should have passed the General Certificate 
of Education (ordinary Level) in not more 
than two sittings with six subjects including 
04 credit passes in Sinhala/t amil, Maths, 
Science and one other subject. at this, should 
have passed at least of 05 subjects in one 
sitting with three credit passes ; 
and 
  should have passed the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) in one sitting 
in two subjects from among the bio Science 
stream subjects of chemistry, Physics,                
agri-Science and biology. applicants with 
these qualifications will be selected based on 
the availability of the vacancies, subsequently 
selecting the applicants of 3.1(a) ;
3.2  the candidates should be not less than 17 years 
and not more than 25 years as at 28.02.2017.
3.3 application will be rejected if the candidate has 
not completed the required quaifications and/or 
he/she is not within the required age limit. 
3.4 applicants with pending results of G. c. E. 
(A/L) are not qualified to apply for this. The 
students those who are following a two year 
course in animal Husbandry at a Government 
department or a Government institution are not 
eligible to follow this course. 
04. Applications : 
4.1 the applications should be prepared by the 
applicant on a paper size a4 as per the specimen 
application form appearing at the end of 
this notice. applications which are not duly 
completed will be rejected without any notice. 
4.2 the examination fee is Rs. 150. it should be paid 
at any People's bank branch drawn in favour of 
the director General, animal Production and 
Health, to the account No. 057100179027275. 
and the original receipt obtained upon the 
payment should be affixed to the application 
only by the edge of it. further, photostat copy 
of the money order should be kept for your own 
safety. Examination fee is not refundable in 
any reason. the fee paid for this examination is 
unable to be transferred to another examination. 
the application without the receipt obtained 
from the bank will be rejected without any 
notice. 
4.3 completed applications should be sent only by 
registered post to reach the director (Human 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
218
Resource development). department of animal 
Production and Health, P. o. box 13, Peradeniya 
on or before 28.02.2017. 
4.4 the words "Admission to the School of 
Animal husbandry-2017/2019" should be 
written clearly on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope
4.5 The copies of the educational certificates 
and the birth certificate should be attached to 
the application. the applications without the 
required certificates will be rejected. Originals 
of all certificates should be produced at the 
interview. 
05. Mode of Selection : 
5.1 Selection of students will be done by a written 
examination and an interview held by this 
department. 
5.2 Syllabus for the written examination is as 
follows :–
 (i) Animal Husbandry.– Multiple choice 
and short questions prepared according 
to the section of animal Husbandry 
in agriculture syllabus prescribed for              
(G. c. E. (o/L) - duration 01 hour.
 (ii) General knowledge - duration 01 hour.
5.3 any kind of allowance will not be paid in case 
of appearing for the written test or the interview 
or both. 
5.4 candidates will be required to prove their identity 
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor. for this purpose any of the following 
documents will be accepted :-
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons ;
 (ii) a  valid Passport. 
5.5 if it reveals that a candidate has submitted false 
information knowingly his/her studentship 
will be suspended. further, where a student 
withdraws his/her studentship after one month 
since the course has been started, he/she is liable 
to repay all the expenses which have been spent 
by the government on behalf of her/his training. 
the director General of animal Production and 
Health holds the sole authority of assessing such 
an expense. 
06. the signature of the applicant in the applications 
should be certified by a principal of a government 
school/retired officer, Grama Niladari, Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, an attorney-at-Law, Public 
Notary, commissioned officer in any one of the three 
security forces, any permanent government officer or a 
permanent officer in the Public or the Provincial Public 
Service who draws an annual basic salary of Rs. 240,360 
or more than that. 
07. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala and tamil texts of this Gazette notification the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
  
DR. a. siVasothy,
  director General of animal 
  Production and Health.
  
department of animal Production and Health,
Gatambe, 
Peradeniya.
appLication 
DepaRtment of animaL pRoDuction anD heaLth 
SRi LAnkA SchOOL Of AniMAL huSBAndRy 
TwO yEAR diPLOMA in AniMAL huSBAndRy - 
2017/2019
Language medium in which the 
applicant wishes to sit :
01. Name in full (in legible letters) :––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :––––––––––.
03. N. i. c. No. :––––––––––.
04. address :––––––––––.
05. d. S. division :––––––––––. district :––––––––––.
06. date of birth :
 y ear :––––––––, Month :––––––––, date :––––––––.
07. age as at 28.02.2017 : 
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
219
08. contact Number :––––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications :
 (i) G. c. E. (o/L) : 
  Grade  Index
 Subject (Ordinary/Credit/ Year  No. 
  distinction)
 1.
 2.
 3.
 4.
 5.
 6.
 7.
 8.
 9. 
 10.
 (ii) G. c. E. (a/L) :
  Grade  Index
 Subject (Ordinary/Credit/ Year  No. 
  distinctions)
 1.
 2.
 3.
 4.
 (The copies of the educational certificates should be 
attached. the applications without the educational 
certificates will be rejected).
10. bank receipt No. obtained on payment of examination 
fees :––––––––––.
 (Please attach the bank receipt to the application 
enabling to detach it when necessary)
11. Last School/institution attended :––––––––––.
12. date of leaving :––––––––––.
13. Experience in animal husbandry gives the particulars 
:–––––––––.
 (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
14. Experience in the Rural development/agriculture/
Social Service/Sports :––––––––––.
 (copies of the certificates should be attached)
15. Names and addresses of two referees :
 01. .............................. 02. .............................
  ..............................  .............................
  ..............................  .............................
i do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished 
by me are true and correct according to my knowledge. 
i am also aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false or incorrect after the selection my 
studentship will be terminated and i am liable to pay any 
expenses incurred on account of my training. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
Note :
Copies of the certificates/documents attached 
herewith.
1.
2.
Attestation 
this is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... 
who forward this application is personally known to me 
and his/her signature is put in front of me on the date of ...
.......................................
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the certifying officer :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Please use the official seal)
02–23
––––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of CuLTuRAL AffAIRS
State Children's Art festival - 2017
dRaWiNGS for the "State children's art festival - 2017" 
organized by the Ministry of internal affairs, North-
Western development and cultural affairs, department 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
220
of cultural affairs and the State advisory board of visual 
arts are accepted from 20th January to 10th March 2017 
at National art Gallery, colombo 07. out of the drawings 
so received, 50 drawings will be selected from each 
district and the relevant winners will be brought up for the 
second round. competitions in the second round will be 
conducted with a special workshop at provincial level and 
all the winners of the first round will be presented with a 
certificate on that date. Drawings selected from the second 
round will be presented to "State children's art festival - 
2017
”, winners will be presented with prizes, awards and 
certificates on the occasion of State Children's Art Festival. 
Categories : 
 1. Primary 05-06 years of age
 2. Post Primary 07-09 years of age
 3. Junior 10-12 years of age
 4. Senior 13-15 years of age
 5. Senior Secondary 16-18 years of age
Conditions : 
 1. drawings could be on any theme of your choice. 
 2. you could use any medium of your choice for 
your drawings. 
 3. Each drawing should measure 18x14 inches. 
 4. Each applicant will be entitled to present only one 
drawing. 
 5. your drawing should not have been presented for 
any other competition held before. 
 6. drawing should be forwarded only from the 
district of your permanent residence. 
 7. drawings received will be evaluated by a 
proficient Panel of Judges. The winners will be 
selected for the relevant district competition. the 
venue, date and the time of the competition will 
be notified later. 
 8. following particulars should be clearly hand 
written correctly on the reverse of the drawing 
in Sinhala, tamil or in English. any drawing 
in which the above particulars are not correctly 
mentioned will be removed from the competition. 
drawings sent will not be returned. (in case the 
particulars are mentioned on a separate paper, it 
should be pasted undetached).
9. further details could be obtained from the cultural 
officers of the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat of 
your permanent residence :
 * Name in full :–––––––––––.
 * Name with initials :–––––––––––.
 * date of birth :–––––––––––.
 * age as at 31.12.2016 :–––––––––––.
 * category :–––––––––––.
 * Private address :–––––––––––.
 * district of your permanent residence :–––––––––.
 * t elephone :–––––––––––.
i certify that the drawing on the reverse in my own. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate. 
Drawings should be sent to : 
National co-ordinator, 
 State advisory board for Visual arts 
  National art Gallery, 
 ananda Koomaraswami Mawatha, 
 colombo 07.
“State children's art festival - 2017” should be marked 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope/parcel you sent 
the drawing. 
  director, 
  department of cultural affairs. 
8th floor, Sethsiripaya, 
battaramulla. 
inquiries : 011-2882551/011-2872031
for further details : www.culturaldept.gov.lk
02-104/2
––––––––––––––––––
 
DEPARTmENT  Of  CuLTuRAL  AffAIRS
State Arts and Sculpture festival - 2017
aPPLicatioNS for the State arts and Sculpture festival 
- 2017 organized by the Ministry of internal affairs, North-
western development and cultural affairs, department of 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
221
cultural affairs and the State advisory board of Visual 
arts are accepted from 20th January to 10th March 2017. 
In case of a drawing, the duly filled application should be 
sent along with 02 clear photographs of the drawing. in 
case of sculptures and installations, a compact disc which 
contains 03 photographs of the front and side views of 
the sculpture/installation and a passport size photograph 
of the relevant applicant should be sent along with the 
duly filled application. “State arts and Sculpture festival 
- 2017” should be written on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. applications should be sent or delivered 
by hand to “director, department of cultural affairs, 8th 
floor, Sethsiripaya, battaramulla”. after the evaluation by 
a proficient Panel of Judges, the selected applicants will 
be informed to submit the original creation to a particular 
place on a particular date. all the creations selected, will be 
displayed in State arts and Sculpture festival - 2017 and 
a certificate will be issued. Winners will be presented with 
awards, certificates and cash prizes. 
Categories : 
* arts :
 1. Portraits
 2. Landscapes
 3. creative compositions
 4. copying traditional paintings (brief description on 
the location of the painting and a photograph of the 
original painting is compulsory)
*  Sculptures : 
 1. Portraits
 2. creative compositions
 3. traditional sculptures
  (you could use any permanent medium)
  
*  installations : 
  Maximum space of 8'x8'x8' (height, length, width) 
could be given. 
*  Print making 
Rules and Regulations : 
 1. the competition is open for any person above 18 
years of age. 
 2. you could use any topic of your choice
 3. you could use any permanent medium of your 
choice. 
 4. you could present creations under any one 
category or several categories of your choice. 
 5. Each candidate will be entitled to present a single 
creation under any one category.
 6. in case of installations, the maximum size should 
be height 8 feet, width 8 feet and length 8 feet. 
 7. the following particulars should be clearly and 
correctly mentioned in handwriting in Sinhala, 
tamil or English in your application. applications 
with uncelar or incorrect particulars will be 
rejected. 
 8. Name, address and the Signature should be 
mentioned clearly on the reverse of the cd and the 
photographs. 
 9. the photographs of your creation and cd which 
contains the photographs of your creation will not 
be returned. 
 10. the photographs of your creation will be evaluated 
by a proficient Panel of Judges in the first round. 
Only the creations selected in the first round will 
be displayed in the festival. those creations will 
be returned to you after the festival.
 11. you should remove your creation from the 
Exhibition Hall the day after the festival. the 
department will not be responsible for any creation 
which is not removed on due date. 
  director, 
  department of cultural affairs. 
8th floor, Sethsiripaya, 
battaramulla. 
inquiries : 011-2882551/011-2872031
for further details : www.culturaldept.gov.lk

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
222
aPPLicatioN foR StatE aRt aNd ScuLPtuRE fEStiVaL - 2017
pLease fiLL aLL the paRticuLaRs in this appLication foRm in BLocK capitaLs 
Name in full :
Name with initials : 
telephone No. home :         Mobile : 
E-mail : 
Permanent address :
date of birth :   d  M  y
National identity card No. : 
category :
 * art  * Sculptures
   Portraits   Portraits
   Landscapes   creative compositions
   creative compositions   t raditional sculptures
   copying traditional paintings  (you could use any permanent medium)
  (brief description on the location of the 
  painting and a photograph of the original 
  painting is compulsory)
 
   installations   Print Making
  Maximum space of 8'x8'x8' (height, length, 
  width) will be allocated per any single installation
topic of the creation  :

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
223
Size in feet of the creation :  Height : Length :    Width :
form of display : displaying table Hang on the wall on the Ground
 others (.......................)
Value of the creation in Rs.         Rs.
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and correct. i agree with all the rules and regulations 
of the competition. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature.
date :––––––––––––.
02-104/1
  

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
224
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2017
225
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 fEbRuAR y 03.02.2017 friday — 20.01.2017 friday 12 noon
  09.02.2017 thursday –– 27.01.2017 friday 12 noon
  17.02.2017 friday –– 03.02.2017 friday 12 noon
  23.02.2017 thursday –– 09.02.2017 thursday 12 noon
 mARCh 03.03.2017 friday — 17.02.2017 friday 12 noon
  10.03.2017 friday –– 23.02.2017 thursday 12 noon
  17.03.2017 friday –– 03.03.2017 friday 12 noon
  24.03.2017 friday –– 10.03.2017 friday 12 noon
  31.03.2017 friday –– 17.03.2017 friday 12 noon
 APRIL 07.04.2017 friday — 24.03.2017 friday 12 noon
  12.04.2017 Wednesday –– 31.03.2017 friday 12 noon
  21.04.2017 friday –– 07.04.2017 friday 12 noon
  28.04.2017 friday –– 12.04.2017 Wednesday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2017.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.