

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
595
wxl 1"872 - 2014 cQ,s ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'07'18
No. 1,872 – FRIDAY , JULY 18, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  08th August, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th July,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 596
By-Laws ... 604
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
595F2 - B 80848
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,871 of  11.07.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
596
Provincial Councils Notifications
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Provincial Council of the Central Province
DRAFT OF THE PROPOSED RURAL DEVELOPMENT STATUTE OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF
THE CENTRAL PROVINCE
I, herewith publish the above proposed draft of the statute which will be enforced in the Central Provincial Council
for public comments.
The statute will be submitted to the Central Provincial Council for approval after 10 days of this has published. If any
comments to be forwarded rewarded related to the contents of this statute should be forwarded to the below address
within 10 days after this notice.
P
REMITHA BANDARA TENNAKOON,
Minister,
Ministry of Sports, Youth Affairs, Women’s Affairs,
 Rural Development and Industries.
P. O. Box 41
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
Rural Development Statute No…….  2014
of the Central Provincial Council
A Statute to provide for the establishment of a Rural Development Department and registration and maintenance of
Rural Development Societies, and establishment, registration and maintenance of Rural Development Divisional
Authorities,  Provincial Authorities, establishment, maintenance and regularization of Women Development Centers
and make provisions for Rural Development in the Central Province and for matters connected there with or
incidental there to.
Be it passed by the Provincial Council of the Central Province of the Democratic, Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as follows:
1. This Statute may be cited as the Rural Development Department Statute No……………. of 2014 of the
Provincial Council and shall come into operation from the date of receiving the assent of the Governor  of the
Central Province.
PART - I
Establishment of the Central Provincial Council Rural Development Department.
2 There shall be established a Department called and known as the Department of Rural Development of the
Central Province (hereinafter referred to as the Department) for the purpose of carrying out the objects and
functions connected with the subject of Rural Development in the Central Province.
3. There shall be appointed a Provincial Director to the Department for the purpose of performing and giving
effect to the powers and functions vested by this statue.  He shall be the Head of the Department and shall
 appointed by the Governor of the Central Province and the Provincial Director shall come under the direction
and the general administration of the Secretary to the Ministry.
4. There shall be appointed Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and number of other officers and staff that
may be necessary to assist the Provincial Director of Rural Development, according to provisions of the
Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 for the purpose of carrying out powers, duties and functions under this
Statute.
Name in brief
and date of
implementation.
Establishment of
Rural
Development
Department
.
Central
Province Rural
Development
Directo
r.
Appointment of
other officers
required for the
Departmen
t.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
597
5. The powers and functions of the provincial Director may be delegated to the officers appointed under Section
4 above for the Divisional Secretaries.
6. Objectives of the Department.
a. Establishment, maintenance and activating the Rural Development  Societies,  and  Authorities  that
are necessary for the purpose of implementing rural development projects with the rural
community participation.
b. Development of essential infrastructural facility projects identified by the rural community making
use of the community contributions.
c. Implementing rural development projects and rural economy generating projects required for the
sustainable rural economic development.
d. Development of  capabilities of rural community and encouraging the Department officers contributing
for this process through training and aware programmes which are necessary for development of
rural leadership.
7. The Department shall have under mentioned powers for the performance of its functions.
a. Establishment, registration, administration, supervision, dissolution and auditing of Rural
Development  Societies, Rural Development Divisional Authorities and  Rural Development  Provincial
Authorities.
b. Establishment, administration, management, maintenance and supervision of Rural Women
Development Centers.
c. Take action to provide vocational training for beneficiaries of Rural Women Development Centers and
thereby encouraging self oriented business among them.
d. Supervision management, inspection and auditing of Rural Development Societies and Authorities.
e. Entertain assistance of eminent individuals of the Government, Provincial Council, Ministries,
Departments and other institutions, Local Government Institution or Government or Provincial
Council legal boards.
f. Implementing maintaining and developing infrastructure facility programmes that promote the living
conditions of the people.
g. Conducting training programmes for the development  of the capacity of the rural mass and as well as
the  officers of the Department.
h. Maintaining co-ordination with Government,  non Government Organizations and  Local Government
Institutions  that make contributions for rural development.
i. Implementing social, economical and cultural programmes identified for rural development.
j. Custody and possession of any movable and immovable property to be vested by transfer, donation,
grant, gifts, testimony or by any other manner, according to the No. 42 of the Local Government Act,
of 1987 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Constitution of 1978.
k. Take action in respect of the objectives and functions specially determined in this Statute or all
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
l. Making to audit finance and accounts reports forwarded  by the Rural Development Societies, Divisional
Authorities and Provincial Authority and taking legal action on finance frauds  revealed therein.
Delegation of
Power.
Objectives of
the
Department.
Powers and
function of the
Dept.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
598
PART - II
Rural Development Societies
8. Rural Development Societies may be established for each Grama Niladari Division or for a part of Grama
Niladari Division or for several Grama Niladari Divisions as may be specifically determined by the Director
of Rural Development.
9. The objectives of a Rural Development Society shall be -
a. Improving cultural systems that pave the way for attitudinal changes and continuously mange them
preserving the indigenous identity.
b. Creation of a leadership that can lead the united co-existing and self-relying rural community, that is the
basis of rural development.
c. Creation of a resource management that will be a basis for rural development giving priority for
environment equalization and for ascertaining unidentified rural energetic forces.
d. Development of infra-structure facilities required for rural population.
e. Strengthening the family unit, creation of unity and co-existence, and also women and child care
development.
10. The powers and functions of a Rural Development Society, subject to directions and supervision of the
development shall be;
a. Lawfully obtaining lands, funds, goods and instruments  as gifts for requirements of development.
b. Purchasing take on lease and rent out land/ property   and entering into contracts in respect of same.
c. Leasing, renting and vesting of land or property for requirements of development and entering into
contracts in respect of same.
d. Procure contracts from Government and non-Governmental institutions according to Finance  circulars
for the purpose of performing   development services and entering into contracts regarding same.
e. Other powers related to implement the targets of the  Rural  Development Societies.
 f. Every Rural Development Society shall submit the   reports,  mentioning the finance situation for the
previous year,  before the end of 31
st  March of the   current year.
   11.  a. The Secretary to the Ministry with the recommendation of the Provincial Director shall from time to
time approve the provisions  that shall contain regarding  the contents, fund  of the Rural Development
Societies in the  constitution of a Rural Development Society.
b. A Society shall have the right to draft a  constitution to its own, subject to the general  provisions,
mentioned in the Statute.
12. A Rural development society shall maintain a Fund subject to provisions shown in a constitution of a Rural
Development Society, and the said fund shall be maintained in a State Bank.
13.  Composition and formations of a Rural Development Society,   directions and procedure in maintaining a fund
of a Rural Development Society shall be included in the constitution of a Rural Development Society.
Rural
Development
Societies.
Objectives of
Rural
Development
Societies.
Powers and
functions
of Rural
Development
Society.
Constitution of a
Rural
Development
Society.
R. D. S. Fund.
Other Provisions.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
599
PART - III
Rural Development Divisional Authorities
14. There shall be single Divisional Rural Development Authority for every Divisional Secretary area of the
Central Province with the combination of all Rural Development Societies functioning within a Divisional
Secretary area.  The Divisional Authority shall consist of  selected members representing registered Rural
Development Societies in the Divisional Secretary area. For this purpose one representative from every
registered Rural Development Society shall be nominated.
15. The objectives of a Divisional Rural Development Authority shall be -
a. Obtaining the active-participation of civil society for provincial development.
b. Promotion of inter-relationship among community organizations at rural level.
c. By the request of one or more Rural Development Societies of the Division,
                         (i)   Planning a Co-ordinated development programme  for the Divisional Authority area.
                         (ii)  Maintaining social welfare services.
d. Maintaining social welfare services by the   Authority.
e. Building up funds for capital and other  requirements of the member societies.
16. Functions of a Divisional Rural Development Authority shall be -
a. Provide necessary instructions for the member societies to build up and maintain their activities.
b. Build up funds to meet the capital and financial requirements of member societies.
c. Provide low interest loan and credit assistance for   member  societies.
d. Assisting to establish new rural development societies and to reorganize- societies and to initiate action
according to the constitution.
e. Extension of women and child care activities within  the Divisional Secretary area and maintain social
and  welfare services.
 f. Every Divisonal Authority shall submit the  reports,  mentioning the finance situation for the  previous
year,  before the end of 31
st  March of the  current year.
             g. Take any other actions necessary and relevant for the purpose of achieving above objectives mentioned
in  the Section No. 15 of the Statute.
17.  The Assistant Director of District Rural Development Authority or the District Rural Development Officer
shall tender meetings and make supervisions of the Divisional Rural Development Authorities.
18.
a.  Other provisions required for maintaining a Rural Development Divisional Authority shall be subject
to provisions of the constitution of the Rural Development Divisional Authority as determined time to
time by the Secretary to the Ministry, by the recommendation of the Provincial Director.
b. Rural Development Divisional Authority shall have the rights to draft a constitution to its own for the
requirements of the Division, subject to the general provisions of the  Statute.
Divisional Rural
Development
Authority.
Objectives of
Divisional
R.D Authority.
Powers and
functions
of a Rural
Development
Authority.
 Calling meeting
and Supervision.
Constitution of
a Rural
Development
Authourity.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
600
19.  Subject to the provisions of the Rural Development Divisional Authority have the rights to maintain a fund.
The fund shall be maintained in a State Bank.
20. Other provisions required for the contents, functions and fund of the Rural Development Divisional Authority,
shall mentioned in the constitution of the Rural Development Divisional Authority.
PART - IV
Rural Development Provincial Authority.
21.  A Rural Development Provincial Authority shall be established for the Central Province.
22.   Every Divisional Authority shall be a member of the Provincial Authority and such authority shall be
composed of one representative from each Divisional Authority.
23.  The objectives of the Provincial Authority shall be –
a. Providing necessary leadership and assistance for planning development programmes to fulfill the
goals prescribed in the constitution of Rural Development Regional Authority and Rural Development
Society Statute.
b. Supervising, Monitoring and Evaluating rural development programmes implemented in the Central
Province.
c. Conforming the co-operation of the Government and non Governmental organizations relating the
rural development  in  Central  Province.
d. Coordinating  the programmes of Rural Development Divisional Authorities in the Central Province.
e. Coordinating and assisting for the development of Rural Women  Development Centers, established
in the Central Province.
24. Powers and Functions of the Rural Development Provincial Authority shall be,
a. Carry out studies in respect of rural development programmes and projects in the Central Province.
b. Maintain co-ordination with other Government and non Government organizations for obtaining
necessary assistance in implementing any rural development programmes.
c. Considering and directing the proposals and suggestions to the Department submitted to implement
the rural development programmes efficiently by the Rural Development Divisional Authorities in
Central Province.
d. Tendering progress review meetings thrice in a year and preparation of feed back reports.
                e. Every Provincial Authority shall submit the reports, mentioning the finance situation for the
previous year, before the end of 31
st  March of the  current year.
Rural
Development
Authourity fund.
Other Provision.
Establishing
Rural
Development
Provincial
Authority.
Composition of
the Provincial
Authority.
Objective of the
Provincial
Authority.
Powers and
Function of the
R.D. Provincial
Authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
601
25. a. There shall be a constitution for Rural Development Provincial Authority, its composition, fund and
activities make provisions to implement them and the Secretary to the Ministry, with the
recommendation of the Provincial Director shall form them time to time.
b. The Rural Development Provincial Authority have the rights to draft a constitution, subject to the
general provisions of the Statute.
26. A fund shall be maintained for the Rural Development Provincial Authority, subject to the directions and
provisions of the constitution of the Rural Development Provincial Authority .  The said fund shall be
maintained in a State Bank.
27. The composition, fund and other provisions to implement by the Rural Development Provincial Authority
shall mentioned in its constitution.
28. The Provincial Director or the Deputy Director or the Assistant Director, authorized by the Director shall
tender Rural Development Provincial Authority meetings and do inspections.
PART- V
Registration of Rural Development Societies and Authorities.
29.  Every Rural Development Society and every Divisional, District and Provincial Authority shall be registered
with the Provincial Director.
30.   Regulations under Section 29, required for the purpose of registration shall be determined by the Minister.
31.  Applications for registration shall be forwarded to the Provincial Director by the Divisional and Provincial
Authorities according to provisions mentioned under Section 30.
32.  If the Provincial Director is satisfied, that the applications forwarded by Rural Development Society, Divisional,
and Provincial Authorities for registration have fulfilled the registration requirements, such Society or Authority
may be registered.
33. Where the Provincial Director is not satisfied, as to the applications for registration forwarded by a Rural
Development Society, Divisional and Provincial Authority have not fulfilled the requirements, then such
registration may be refused.  The reason for the refusal of registration shall be notified in a written form to the
respective Society within 14 days of refusal.
34. An appeal may be forwarded to the Secretary to the Ministry regarding the refusal of the registration of the
application,  and the decision of the Secretary to the Ministry is final.
35.  A Rural Development Society or an Authority by the reason of registration and by the name assigned to it be
a body corporate, and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal, hold property and enter into
agreements and may sue and be sued in such name.
Constitution  of
the R.D.
Provincial
Authority
Fund  of the
R.D. Provincial
Authority
Other
Provisions
Calling meeting
and supervision
Registration of
Rural
Development
Societies
and authorities
Registration,
Regulations
Forwarding of
Application for
Registration
Issuing
Registration
Certificates
Rejection of
Registration
Powers for
Appeal
Corporate Bodies
Rural
Development
Societies and
Authorities
Registered should
be Corporations

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
602
PART - VI
Establishment of Rural Women Development  Centers
36. There shall be established a Rural Women Development  Centers at Divisional Secretary area level for the
purpose of improving the economic conditions and capabilities of rural women living within the Central
Province.  These centers shall be supervised by the Department.
37. Provide vocational training and competencies in sewing and handicrafts for rural women through Rural Women
Development Centers and training courses may also be conducted required for the progress of rural women
folk.
38. Provincial Director or the officer authorized by him, will be able to select trainees for Women Development
Centers and decide on the training courses to be conducted at these centers.
PART - VII
General Provisions
39.  District Rural Development offices shall be established in Kandy, Matale and Nuwara Eliya Districts to carry
out the activities of the Department,  more widely and effectively.
40. The Minister has the power to,
a. Implement necessary regulations under Section 7 and,
b. Implement  necessary regulations for the purpose of carrying out regulations and directions for achieving
the objectives under Section 30 of the above Statute;
c. Auditing powers of Rural Development Societies, Divisional Authorities and Provincial Authority
shall be vested on the Provincial Director of Rural Development.  The Director shall also have the
powers to take legal action on any financial misdeed or fraud revealed by such auditing process.  The
certificate issued by the Director on such misdeeds, shall be treated as an important witness on the
amount charged from such persons.
41. Every regulation to be formed under Sections 40 shall published in the  Gazette by the Minister and shall be
adopted by the Provincial Council, within 03 months duration.
42. a. Establishment , registration,   and auditing of the  Rural Development Societies within the
DivisionalSecretary   area shall come under the Rural Development Officer with   the  recommendation
of  Divisional Secretary.
  b. If any misdeed or fraud  revealed  when performing matters of Rural Development Societies and
Divisional Authorities within the Divisional Secretary area,  the Minister shall  have the power to
dissolve such Societies and Authorities, with the recommendation of  the Provincial Director of the
Rural Development.
43.  (i)  Any person who acts in contravening and violating provisions of any rural or regulation enforced
under this statute or any provision of this Statute shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and
shall be subject to trial in a Court of Law  and  subject to a penalty  not exceeding Rupees two thousand
five hundred or an imprisonment not exceeding 06 month or liable to the two penalties.
           (ii)   If any finance fraud or less utilized money matters performed by any Rural Development Society,
Divisional Authority or a Provincial Authority, reported to a Court of Law, such financial fraud  and
less utilized  amount of money shall be treated as penalty,  imposed on such Rural Development
Societies, Divisional Authorities and Provincial Authority and the amount charged as penalty shall be
credited to the accounts of the  Rural Development Societies, Divisional Authorities and the Provincial
Authority.   All amount imposed as penalties under this Statute, shall be credited to the Central
Provincial Fund.
Establishment of
Rural Women
Development
Centers.
V ocational
Training.
Selection of
Trainees and
selecting
programmes
.
Imposing
regulations
relevant to draft
statute.
Guilty of an
offense and
punishments.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
603
44 In the event of any discrepancy found  among the Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts, the text in Sinhala shall be
treated final.
Interim Provisions
45. The person who are serving as Provincial Director  before the determined date shall be treated as the Director
appointed under Section 3 and the officers who was serving before the determined date shall be treated as the
officers appointed under Section 4 of the said Statute.
46. a. All  assets, liabilities, loan bonds, legal matters of the Department and entered agreements with the
Department before the determined date shall be treated as the assets, liabilities, loan bonds, legal
matters and agreements entered  under  the said Statute.
b. All assets, liabilities, loan bonds, legal matters and entered agreements on contracts  by Rural
Development Societies and  Divisional Authorities,  before the determined date shall be treated as the
assets, liabilities, loan bonds, legal matters and agreements entered by the Rural Development Societies
and Divisional Authorities, established under the said Statute.
47. District Development Officers shall maintain District Rural Development offices,  till the recruitment of
officers to the District Offices in Kandy, Matale and Nuwara Eliya Districts.
Interpretation
48. The “Governor” means the Governor of the Central Province.
“Minister” means the Minister in change of the subject of rural development in the Central Provincial Council.
“Secretary to the Ministry” means the Secretary of the ministry in change of the subject of rural development
in the Central Provincial Council.
“Divisional Secretary” means the Secretary of the Division in the Central Province or a person authorized by
him.
“Provincial Director” means the Director of the Rural Development in the Central Province or a person
authorized by him.
“Deputy  Director” means the Deputy Director authorized by the Director of the Rural Development in the
Central Province.
“Assistant  Director” means the Assistant Director authorized by the Director of the Rural Development in the
Central Province.
“Rural Development District Officer” means the officer authorized by the Provincial Director of Rural
Development of Central Province to execute the duties of Rural Development.
“Rural Development Officer” means the officer authorized by the Provincial Director of Rural Development
of Central Province to execute duties in the Divisional Secretary Division.
“Society” means a Rural Development Society functioning within the Central Province.
“Authority” means the rural Development Divisional Authorities and the Rural Development Provincial
Authority functioning within the Central Province.
“Property” means are property such as books, documents and records; cash in hand and in bank, furniture and
equipments, land and buildings, projects and immovable and immovable property own by the rural developments
societies, or Rural Development Authorities.
“Constitution” means constitutions drawn up for rural development societies, Rural Development Divisional
Authorities, the Rural Development Provincial Authority and approved by the Board of Ministers of the
control provincial council.
The Sinhala
Language text
shall be valid.
Post  holding
Directors and
officers.
Assets,
liabilities, bonds
maintenance.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'18
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2014
604
           “State Bank” means the state bank established under Finance Regulation Act.
        “Non Government Organizations” mean the voluntary organizations registered under V oluntary and Social
Institutions (Registration and Supervision) Act.
        “Provincial Finance Regulations” mean the Finance Regulations imposed by the Hon. Governor of Central
Province under Sections 19 (5) and 23 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987, with effect from 01st of
January, 2008.
           “Determined Date” means the effective date of this Statute.
“Rural Women Development center” means the centers established to improve the rural women for provide
vocational skills training to the rural women.
07-450
By-Laws
STANDARD BY-LAWS
IT is hereby notified that the Southern Provincial Council has, at its
meeting held on 23.07.2013 unanimously approved the draft by-
laws referred to hereunder, made by the minister in charge of the
subject of Local Government of the Southern Provincial Council,
under the powers vested in him under Section 2, sub-section (I) of
the Local Govenment Authorities (Standard  By-Laws) Act, No. 06
of 1952 (Chapter 261) read with Section 2, sub-section (I) (a) of the
Provincial Councils  (Ancillary Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and
published in Part IV (a) of Gazette No. 1811 dated 17.05.2013 of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
* By-laws regarding the interpretation of all standard by-laws
of the Municipal Councils within the Soutern Province;\
* By-laws relating to general provisions applicable to all
standard by-laws;
* By-laws regarding penalties for breach of any provision or
directive laid down in any standard by-law;
* By-laws relating to the conduct of affairs of the council
meetings;
* By-laws relating to the sale of fish;
* By-laws relating to the sale of meat;
* By-laws applicable to factories making soft drinks;
* By-laws applicable to hair dressing salons, barbers’ shops or
saloons and beauty parlours;
* By-laws relating to bakeries;
* By-laws relating to dairies;
* By-laws relating to swimming pools;
* By-laws relating to ice making factories;
* By-laws relating to eateries, restaurants and tea or coffee
shops;
* By-laws pertaining to hotels;
* By-laws pertaining to lodging houses;
* By-laws pertaining to laundaries;
* By-laws pertaining to factories;
* By-laws applicable to establishments providing funeral
undertakers services;
* By-laws relating to the sale of fast foods or other ready to
eat food items by itinerant traders;
* By-laws relating to pedestrian crossings;
* By-laws on regulation, supervision and control of industrial
premises used for the production or storage of building
materials and allied products;
* By-laws regarding the parking of motor vehicles and
regulation of vehicular traffic;
* By-laws on prevention of damages to roads and obstructions
to road traffic;
* By-laws on regulation, administration and the levying of
fees on crematoriums;
* By-laws on the maintenance of public fairs;
* By-laws on the maintenance of playgrounds;
* By-laws on community centres;
* By-laws relating to advertising posters;
* By-laws on the registration  of mortgages and mortgagees;
S
AMAN DARSHANA PANDIKORALA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Local Government,
Southern Provincial Council.
30th March, 2014
07-530
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.