

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G27821 – 18 (06/2018)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
wxl 2074$27 – 2018 cqks ui 06 jeks nodod – 2018'06'06
No. 2074/27 – WEDNESDAY, JUNE 06, 2018
My No.: CI/1826.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between American and Efird Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, No. 67, Avissawella Road, Welivita,
Kaduwela of the one part and the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 341/21, 4th Floor, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya of
the other part on 8th August 2017 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act,Chapter 131, of the
Legislative Enactment of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
04th May, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
Collective Agreement No. 32 of 2017
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT (2017-2019)
BETWEEN
AMERICAN  AND  EFIRD  LANKA  (PVT)  LTD
AND
  SRI LANKA  NIDAHAS  SEW AKA  SANGAMAYA
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made and entered into on this 8th day of August Two Thousand Seventeen (2017) between
American and Efird Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., having its Registered Office at No. 67, Avissawella Road, Welivita, Kaduwela and bearing
Company Registered No. PV 2953 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employer’) of the ONE PART and the Sri Lanka Nidahas
Sevaka Sangamaya, being  a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance and having its Registered office
at 341/21 4th Floor Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya (hereinafter reffered to as the 'Union') of the OTHER PART witnesseth:
WHEREAS the Union has shown to the stisfaction of the Employer that it represents a majority of the Operative Grade
employees employed by the Employer.
AND WHEREAS it is the desire of both the Union and the Employer to enter into an Agreement, which will ensure the peaceful
adjustment and settelement of all disputes which may arise between the Employer and its employees and/or the Union and the
promotion of industrial peace, productivity, quality and attendance.
NOW THEREFORE for and in consideration of the above premises and the mutual terms and conditions hereinafter set out, the
Union and the Employer agrees as follows:-
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as ‘‘THE  OPERATIVE  GRADE  EMPLOYEES’’  COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT  2017 - 2019.
2. Date of  Operation and Duration.– This Collective Agreement shall be effective for a period of 3 years from 1.4.2017
and may be terminated by either party with one (01) month's written notice to the other, provided however that neither party
shall give such notice prior to 31.03.2019. Any notice of termination of this Agreement given by either party, prior to 31.03.2019
shall not be regarded  as valid notice and shall be of no avail.
3. Persons Covered And Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and all members of
the union who are employed on permanent contracts of employment by the Employer in the manual / operative grades at the
Employer's plant at Kaduwela.
4. Declaration Of Principle.–
(a) Both Employer and the Union accept the principle that the special consideration affecting employer are such that
the wage and salary rates are a proper subject for collective bargaining between the Employer and the Union, and
that the actions of other employers including Governement Corporations and the Governement of Sri Lanka in
their capacity as employers of labour, regarding the amount and timing of wage increases are not automatically
relavant in the context of the Employer except where otherwise provided by legislation.
(b) In cases in which Government does provide by legislation for benefits including increases in wages,
i. When such benefits are more favourable to the benefits stipulated only the difference between such benefits
provided by such legislation and the benefits stipulated herein, shall be added to the said benefits stipulated
herein,
ii. When such benefits are equal or less favourable to the benefits stipulated herein, they shall not be added to
or compounded with the said benefits stipulated herein,

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
3A
(c) The stipulations contained in Para (b) above are without prejudice to the principle contained in Para (a) above.
5. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall as from the date
hereof and during the continuance in force of this Agreement be deemed to be concluded in all the contracts of employment
between the employer and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of employment be
written or oral or whether employment was subsisting as  at the date hereof or shall come into being at any time after the date
hereof but during the continuance in force of this Agreement. Provided, that in the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any pre-existing terms and conditions or practices, the terms and
conditons of this Agreement shall prevail.
6. Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment or Benefits.–
(a) The union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary or add to all
or any of the practices, terms and conditions or employment presently applicable to any of the employees
covered and bound by this Agreement or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the workers
covered and bound by this Agreement.
(b) This Agreement shall be deemed to be a full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as all matters
raised by the Union or incidental hereto and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties
before the conclusion of this Agreement.
7. Wages.–
(a) As from the 1st day of April 2017 the Employer shall revise the wages of employees covered and bound by 20%
of the salary drawn as at 31st March 2017. It should be noted that out of this wage revision, 5% shall be regarded
as a special once-and-for-all salary adjustment granted by the Employer which shall rectify any anomalies of
basic wages.
(b) As from 1st of April 2018, the employees covered and bound shall be eligible to receive from the Employer as sum
of Rs. 2000/- by way of a wage revision.
(c) As from 1st of April 2019, the employees covered and bound shall be eligible to receive from the Employer a sum
of Rs. 2000/- by way of a wage revision.
(d) The Union and its members agree that the wage revision granted in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above shall along
with the wage revisions granted by virtur of the Collective Agreement for the period 2014-2016 shall be considered
and acknowledged to have accumulatively rectified, any anomalies of the basic wage.
(e) The Union and its members further agrees that in future, it shall not in any manner urge or request from the
Employer for the rectification of any anomalies in the basic wage and that subsequent wage negotiations shall
solely be based on the median wage increases, granted to employees in similar industries.
It is aloso agreed by parties that a fresh criteria of appraising performance of employees covered and bound shall be finalized
in consulation with the union and its members, prior to the wage revision to be granted in the year 2020.
8. Production Incentive.– Employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall continue to receive a production
incentive, in terms of the current scheme applicable to them.
9. Employee Grievance Handling Procedure.– In the event of an Employee grievance, the following procedure shall
be followed in resolving such grievance.
(a) The Employee will, in the first instance discuss the grievance with the Departmental Executive.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
(b) If the grievance is not satisfactory resolved, the Employee may then discuss the matter with the Department
Manager. The Departmental Manager will, if necessary, in consultation with the Employer's Management endeavor
to arrive at a satisfactory solution in respect of the grievance.
(c) In the event of the grievance not being resolved at the level of the Departmental Manager, the issue in grievance
will then be discussed by the Employee with the Employee Relations Manager/ Human Resource Manager of the
Employer.
(d) If no satisfactory solution is arrived at, then the issue in grievance will be discussed by the Branch Union and the
Employer's Management. At such discussion, the number of representastives from each side shall not exceed
four  (4).
10. Disputes Resolution Procedure.– In the event of a dispute arising out of matters that are not covered under this
Collective Agreement, both parties agree they  shall refer such dispute for settlement in terms of the Dispute Settlement
Procedure incorporated hereunder.
(a) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the dispute should be forwarded by the Union's branch
committee to the employer,and at least two weeks given for the Employer to resolve the dispute.
(b) If no satisfactory solution is found,the matter should be referred to the parent Union and to the Employers
Federation of Ceylon (EFC), for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
(c) If after the discussion, the matter cannot be  resolved by the intervention of the EFC and the parent Union, the
conciliatory proceedings under the industrial disputes act should be followed.
(d) If after conciliation has failed in the Labour Department, the Union wishes to take trade union action, written
notice should be given of not less than 14 days to the employer and to the EFC.
11. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally
agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any form of trade
union action in respect of any dispute related to matters covered by this Agreement.
12. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.– On the termination of this Agreement, facilities and concessions
enjoyed by the Union under this Agreement shall ipso facto cease. Employee benefits as per the Collective Agreement will
remain unchanged provided Employees continue with the agreed work practices, terms and conditions stipulated in this
Agreement.
13. Breaches of The Agreement By The Union And / or Its Members.– If in the opinion of the Employers’ Federation
of Ceylon, the Union or its members have committed a breach of this Agreement, then and in such event the Employer reserves
the right to withdraw all or any of the facilities or benefits granted to the Employees, or Union seven (07) days after raising such
breach with the Union in writing without prejudice to the Employer's right to restore such facilities or benefits upon such terms
and conditions as the Employer and the employers’ Federation of Ceylon may decide. The Union will be entitled to dispute the
justification of such withdrawal.
If in the opinion of the Union, the Employer has committed a breach of this Agreement then and in such event, the
Union would have the right to refer such matter to  the Commissioner of Labour.
14. Interpretation of Agreement.– Any dispute over the interpretation of this Agreement shall be settled by voluntary
arbitration under section 3 (i) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act (1950).
15. Definitions.– Unless the context otherwise requires the following words shall have the following meaning.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
5A
(a) ‘‘Employee’’ or ‘‘Workman’’ shall mean an employee in the permanent establishment and covered and bound by
this Agreement.
(b) ‘‘Dispute’’ shall habve the same meaning as an ‘‘Industrial Dispute’’ in the Industrial Disputes Act (1950) as
amended or in any Act enacted by the Parliament to replace the Industial Disputes Act subject to the proviso that
it shall not include a dispute involving a variation of this Collective Agreement.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa.
In witness hereof, the parties have set their hands to this Collective Agreement on this 8th day of August 2017, at the EFC
Office in Rajagiriya.
06 - 812

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
My No.: CI/1821
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT.  CHAPTER  131
The Collective Agreement entered into between Habib Bank Limited, No. 140-142, 2nd Cross Street, Colombo 11 of the one part
and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 9th February 2016 is heheby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Dispute Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956).
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
18th May, 2018.
Collective Agreement No. 14 of 2016
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement, the terms of which were agreed on the 09th day of February Two Thousand and Sixteen, between
Habib Bank Limited, a Bank incorporated in Pakistan and having its registered Office at Habib Bank Plaza 1.1. Chundrigar
Road, Karachi and approved main place of business at  No. 140-142, 2nd Cross Street, Colombo 11. in the Republic of Sri Lanka
(hereinatfer referred to as ‘‘the Bank’’) and the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union, a duly registered trade union in Sri Lanka
having its registered office at No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka (hereinatfer referred to as ‘‘the Union’’)
Title.– This Agreement will be known and referred to as ‘‘Habib Bank Officers’ Collective Agreement of 2015’’
WHEREAS the Union made demands for a revision of terms and conditions of employment of the Officer Grades in the
Bank and after negotiations the parties in a spirit of goodwill to ensure cooperation between themselves and to guarantee an
effective and productive work environment have agreed as follows:
1. Parties Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Bank, the Union and all members of the
Union employed in the following officer grades in the Bank and hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Employees’’.
• Officer I
• Officer II
• Assistant Manager I
• Assistant Manager II
• Manager I
• Manager II
2. Duration.– Unless otherwise stated elsewhere, this Agreement shall come into force on the 1st day of April 2015 and
shall continue until either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall
be given before the 31st day of March 2018. The Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised
Collective Agreement at any time on or after 1st January 2018.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
7A
3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on
the parties hereto and such earlier Agreements including the Agreement of 2012 shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties
hereto.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.–  The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall subject as
herein provided be deemed to be included in each contract of service whether oral or written between the Bank and each Officer
covered and bound by this Agreement which are subsisting as at the date hereof or which come into being during the
continuance in force of this Agreement and which are not inconsistent with the terms and conditions contained in this
Agreement.
5. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Scales.– Every employee covered by this Agreement in service as
at the date of this Agreement shall, from the 1st April 2015, be placed on the salary sclale set out in the First Schedule.
Every employee in appointment or service as at 31st March. 2015 shall receive arrease of the increase allowed by this
agreement.
For the placement of an employee on the salary scale applicable in the First Schedule, the following provisions shall
apply.
(i) A sum equal to 10% of the gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) payable to an employee as at 31st
March 2015 shall be added to the salary of an employee as at such time.
(ii) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement shall also receive a further 7% increase
calculated on the gross salary as at 31st March 2015 with effect from the 1st April 2016, and thereafter placed
on the appropriate point on the scale in the First Schedule at the corresponding Rupee point or if there is no
such corresponding point, on the next higher point of the said scale.
There will be further 7% increment of salary, claculated on the gross salary as at 31st March 2015 with effect from the
1st April 2017, and thereafter placed on the appropriate point on the scale in the First Schedule at the corresponding Rupee
point or if there is no such corresponding point, on the next higher point of the said scale.
6. Cost of Living Allowance.– Parties are agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of
living allowance for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
(a) Rs. 22,000/- with effect from 1.4.2015
(b) Rs. 24,000/- with effect from 1.4.2016;
(c) Rs. 25,000/- with effect from 1.4.2017;
Provided, however, in the event of the Department of Census and Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to the rate of
payment in relation to the Colombo Consumers' Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base Year 2006/2007) and if your
union makes a request for a meeting to discuss the modalities of making this payment, the Bank would be agreeable to do so’’
7. Gas and Electricity Allowance.– The Bank shall pay a Gas and Electricity Allowance to employees as follows:
• Officer I - Rs. 7,500
• Officer II -  Rs. 8,000
• Assistant Manager I - Rs, 8,500
• Assistant Manager II -  Rs. 9,000
• Manager I/ Manager II - Rs. 9,500

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
8. Key Holding Allowance.– The key holding allowance shall be paid as follows;
1 day - Rs. 500/-
2 days - Rs. 750/-
3 days - Rs. 1,000/-
4 days - Rs. 1,250/-
5 days or more - Rs. 2,500/-
9. Fuel Allowance.– The fuel allowance shall be paid as follows;
• Officer I / Officer II - 65 Liters of Petrol per Month
• Assistant Manager I / Assistant Manager II - 75 Liters of Petrol per month
• Manager I / Manager II - 85 Liters of Petrol per Month
10. Entertainment Allowance.– Assistant Manager II, Manager I and Manager II will be paid an entertainment
allowance of Rs. 4000/- per month.
11. Special Payments.–
(a) With effect from the date hereof when employees are required to work after normal working hours on any
working day, they shall be entitled to the following payments.
For work upto 2 hours - Rs. 350/-
For work upto 3 hours - Rs. 400/-
For work upto 4 hours - Rs. 450/-
For work in excess of 4 hours - Rs. 175/- per hour
(b) When employees are required to work on any holiday they shall be entitled to a payment of Rs. 700/- in respect
of the first four hours worked on such holiday and Rs. 175/- in respect of each additional hour worked.
(c) No employee shall work after normal working hours or on holidays unless requested to do so by the Bank.
12. Promotion.–
(a) For promotion to any grade mere length of service shall not be the sole criteria and the Bank shall be entitled to
take into account other factors such as good conduct, efficiency, educational and professional qualifications
and good character. All promotions from one grade to another shall be subject to the availability of vacancies
and suitability of the Officer and purely at the discretion and judgment of the Management. The decision of the
Management in the exericise of such discretion shall be final and conclusive.
(b) For promotion to the Officer II : it is hereby agreed between the parties that Junior Officers will be considered
for promotion to Officer II subject to the rules and regulations of the Bank and subject to the following criteria
and terms and conditions:
(i) Record of conduct, work performance and attendance.
Only for Offcer I, possessing a record of good conduct, excellent work performance and attendance will
qualify for consideration.
(ii) Eligibility for consideration : Only Officer I possessing the following basic criteria will be eligible for
consideration:

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
9A
Experience in Service Educational Qualifications
08 Years as Officer I GCE O/L Examination with a Credit Pass in English
or Clerk if promotee
05 Years as Officer I Part I - AIB London or AIB Sri Lanka
or Clerk if promotee
04 Years as Officer I Diploma in AIB London or Diploma in AIB Sri Lanka
or Clerk if promotee
03 Years as Officer I University Degree with one of the subjects in Economics or
or Clerk if promotee Commerce
(c) Selection Process.–
Officer I, who are eligible subject to the above mentioned basic criteria will be considered for promotion by the
Management of the Bank, subject to the following conditions:
(i) Subject to the availability of vacancies depending on the Bank’s staffing needs from time to time, the
eligible Officer I shall be required to put up, applications for consideration for promotion submitting
required information regarding their career on set formats obtainable from the Bank.
(ii) All eligible applicants will be required to sit for a written test which will be prepared by the Bank and
conducted in Colombo under the supervision of the Management.
(iii) All eligible applicants who have performed satisfactorily at the written test will be further subject to an
interview by the Management of the Bank.
(iv) The Man agement’s decision in respect of selection shall be final and conclusive and shall not be
challenged.
(d) It is further agreed beween the parties that calling for application /test/interview process as referred to at (a), (b)
and (c) above in respect of the consideration of Officers for each year’s vacancies would commence in the
month of September/October with a view to completing written tests and interviews, and submission of
recommendations of sucessful applicants to Head Office shall be not later than 15th January of the following
year for Head Office final approval.
(e) On final selection after test, interview, recommendation and approval by Head Office, the selected candidates
shall be promoted to Officer II in the scale herein above mentioned.
13. Provident Fund.–
(a) Rate of Contribution .–
The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank as from 01.04.2006 shall be :
Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve percent) of salary
Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight percent) of salary
Provident Fund Contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount
paid for that month as Cost of Living Allowance subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
(b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held  by the Banks .–
Whereas Provident Fund monies are invested in the respective Banks, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate
of interest paid on 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/= published in the N.S.B. prevailing as
at the 1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing on 1st July for the second half of the
year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at such respective Banks.
14. Gratuity.– An Employee shall upon retirement on reaching the age of 55 years or on duly authorised medical
grounds, after completing a period of fifteen (15) years service in the Bank or after completing 20 years continuous service, be
entitled to gratuity calculated at the rate of one month’s terminal salary for each completed year of service rendered by such
employee. For the purpose of calculating gratuity “terminal salary” shall mean the basic salary i.e. the salary point an employee
is placed on the salary scale applicable to him plus the cost of living allowance.
15. Death Gratuity.– On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the
Bank, the Bank will make a compassionate payment of two month’s, gross salary for each year of completed service subject to
a minimum of six months’ gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be determined by the
Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of an employee who is not
confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employee provided that in the case of
an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will be
calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary plus the Cost
of Living Allowance.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall be
entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under any laws in force
at the time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever is higher. Provided
further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as
provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to
them under any written law.
16. Retirement.–
(a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, and on reaching the age of 55 an employee shall ipso facto retire and
cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any
notice of such retirement.
(b) An employee may also be retired and be  eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and
has10 or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his union and the
employer that he should be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party
to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
17. Release of Parent Union Office Bearers.–
(a) One Office Bearer of the union shall be released for union work without payment of salary or any other
allowances whatsoever for a period not exceeding two years on a single occasion during a period of six years
provided the union so requests and subject to the condition that at any given time only one employee of the
Bank whether covered or not by this Agreement shall be so released.
(b) On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been released for union work, he shall receive incremental
credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights under Clauses 14,
15 and 16 hereof.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
11A
18. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Council Members.–
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at any one
given occasion  without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present at
inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with their
respective Bank Managements - exclusively on matters pertaining to such particular Bank to which such
Branch Union Office Bearers are attached.
(b) It is agreed that Central Committee Members will be permitted to leave at 12.30 p.m. on 12 days in a year for
meetings. In the case of outstation General  Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the whole
day for 12 General Council Meetings in a year.
(c) It is agreed that a days’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to central Committee to attend
Parent Union General Council meetings.
(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3 p.m. for meetings of the Executive
committee of the Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
19. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave: –
(a) Annual Leave :
(i) Entitlement : In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during
which an employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take  in the following year 21
working days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive days and
shall in respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.
(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows:
(a) The full annual holiday of 21 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 1st
April;
(b) A holiday of 15 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July;
(c) A holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October; and
(d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.
(iii) Availment.– The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorisation of the Bank upon the employee’s
application, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iv) Accumulation .–  Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following
purposes :
(a) for availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement, with the Bank,
(b) for the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill,
(c) for travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given,
(d) for marriage of the employee,
(e) prolonged illness of the employee,
(f) on account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current year’s
leave.
(g) for the purpose of nursing the 3rd and 4th children beyond the maternity leave entitlement.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the management.
Family member for purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted upto a maximum of seven (7) days per year and provided
further that such total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) days.
(b) Medical  Leave :
(i) Entitlement.– An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly
or other holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii)
hereof.
(ii) Availment.– A Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness
not supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner :
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or
(b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a
Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.
(iii) Accumulation .– An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above
shall be entitled to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or
years, subject to the following provisions:
(a) In no case shall be entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed
ninety (90) days, and
(b) The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization
or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,
(c) Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such
as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization an employer may permit him to set off any further
absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave
taken for such earlier prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank w ill be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and /or take
any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness 
not supported by a
Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances:
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for
absence of an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any
weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application
and/or reason for absence of the employee.
(c) Casual Leave.–
An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment whereof
not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precede or follow any
period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such
absence in justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been forseen
by such employee.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
13A
20. Medical Benifits.–
(i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalisation
The Bank will reimburse an employee up to a maximum of such employee’s salary per mensem in respect of
medical expenses incurred as routine non-hospitalisation and non-surgical expenditure, Accordingly employees
shall be eligible to receive such reimbursement in twelve equal installments which shall not constitute part of the
wage and accordingly shall not attract consequential benefits such as EPF/ETF, Gratuity etc.
“Salary” for this purpose shall be the salary point on which an employee is placed in terms of Schedule 1 hereof.
(ii) Special Non-Hospitalisation and Non-Surgical Expenditure
The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum of Rs. 10,000  per
annum on account of special non-hospitalisation and non-surgical expenses covering the following items only
incurred on behalf of the employee only and not on behalf of his family members :
(a) Spectacles
(b) Dentures
(c) Hearing Aides
Subject to valid documentation and subject to the provisos that no claim is made in relation to any particular
item more that once in three years.
(iii) Surgical and Hospitalization Expenditure
Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalization (whether Government or Private)
expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under 18 years of age,
subject to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to the following limits
per annum :
(a) Hospitalization or Nursing Home maintenence charges :
-  Daily Limit Rs. 4,000
- Government hospital allowance Rs. 2,000
(b) Emergency treatment travel expenses (Maximum) Rs. 2,000
(Rs. 50 per Km. or actual cost whichever is less)
(c) Overall limit for one event/ one Year Rs. 250,000
Provided however that in the case of a recurrent illness, i.e. of the same kind, the Bank will make payments on
this account only once in a period of three years.
The Second Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
(iv) Maternity Grant.–
An employee who is married will be permitted a once and for all grant of Rs. 15,000 in respect of each of two
births of children after 1.12.2012. If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one such claim shall be
entertained.
In the case of reimbursement under surgical and hospitalization expenses, the maximum deduction for normal
child birth shall be Rs. 15,000.
(v) The revised rates as set out in clauses (ii) to (iv) hereof shall become effective from the date of the signing of this
agreement.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
21. Bonus.– The Bank will pay each year to every employee a bonus of three (3) months basic salary on the salary as
drawn by such employee in the month of December of such year. The bonus will be paid in three monthly installments in
keeping with normal practice.
22. Suspension.–
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the
provisions of sub-clause (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months
and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation,
the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not
concluded within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary (salary plus
cost of living allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay
beyond six months is due to the employee’s own conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand
thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned
will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding
the inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the
employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in police custody or where
the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not
receive full pay in these circumstances.
23. Disciplinary Procedure. –  Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except,
however, in the case of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall
apply ;
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show
cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause
letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calender days within which to tender his explanation in
writing to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable
the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and
where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time as is
considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show
cause and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate. the employee and shall
pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not
satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub-clause (i) hereof, hold an inquiry into the
charges against such employee.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
15A
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the
date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for
reasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of
unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused
employee or an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to
itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) to defend the accused
employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal qualification. The
defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this account. The Bank will
further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as an Observer without loss of
salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name of the
Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement
of the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee
and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a Defending
Employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defending Employee or
Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a Defending Employee or Observer
from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reasons whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor the
proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the
proceedings but he may answer any question which the inquiring Officer may ask him.
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record of the proceedings have been certified and a
copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true copy
of such proceedings before the inquiry Officer.
(h) The Inquiring officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as
well.
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in
writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days
except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such
employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the
employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry on any
of the following circumstances :
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to ‘show
cause’ in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action in the basis that such employee
had no cause to show.
(ii) where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the
Employer thereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within
twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding
on the Bank, the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from
the date on which the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in
respect of such findings and/or punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that -
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall takes
effect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that
the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the
employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith
and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the
right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole
or part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of Sub-clauses (e), (h) and (i) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held
in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other
authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the
employee.
(o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this
Agreement.
24. Trade Union Action.–
(a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement  :
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action
against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.
(b) Matters Not Related and not Covered in this Agreement :
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank
that during the continuace in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade
union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action
against the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until-
(i) The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably
with the Bank, at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer
such matter to the Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union).
(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted
all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute with the Bank and / or the Employers’ Federation of
Ceylon.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
17A
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to
give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to
the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.
25. Union Check-off Facilities.– (i) During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has
not less than forty (40) percent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement such employer shall continue to
grant check-off, provided, however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event
of the Union violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement.
26. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.–
(i) Where either the Union or the Bank is dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is being
implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology change such
matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank. The Union shall make its own
nominations for the purpose of meetings to be held with the Monitoring Committee. The Bank or the Union may
request that the matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by communication addressed to the
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
(ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950.
27. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.– On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits,
facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or its members shall ipso facto cease.
Schedule - I
SR. Designation Basic Salary Increment Slab
No. Range
Upto 15 Years More than 15
Service Y ears Service
1. Officer I 40,000 to 70,000 410 550
2. Officer II 50,000 to 80,000 685 820
3. Assistant Manager I 60,000 to 90,000 965 1095
4. Assistant Manager II 70,000 to 100,000 1265 1470
5. Manager I /  Manager II 80,000 to 110,000 1330 1365
and above
Schedule - I  will be only for the increments and any employee’s basic salary reaching out of the range prescribed in the
schedule will  not make the employee eligible for any promotion etc.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'06'06
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2018
06 - 813
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA