

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'30
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.10.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1834$27 - 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 30 jeks nodod - 2013'10'30
No. 1834/27 - WEDNESDAY ,  OCTOBER  30,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Rules under Section 7(1), (2) and 30(1) and (2) of the Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services Statute
No. 1 of 1992 and Sections 5-6 of the Western Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services
(amendment) Statute No. 3 of 1993
THE, rules under the Western Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Three Wheeler Service Statute No. 06 of 2002
and the Section 30 of the Western Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services (amendment) Statute No. 3 of 2007
are repealed hereby.
According to the authority and Provisions delegated to me by the 7(1), (2) and 30 (1) and (2) of the Western Province
Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services Statute No. 1 of 1992 and Section 5 and 6 of the Western Province Provincial
Road Passenger Transport Services (amendment) Statute No. 3 of 1993, I notify that the regulations formulated for the three
wheelers and taxis (cabs) used for Passenger Transport Services within the  Western Province are as follows.
H. M. U
PALI KODIKARA,
Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,
Art and Cultural Affairs, Co-operative Development,
Food Supply and Distrbution and Rural Development.
10th October, 2013.
1. These regulations may be cited as the “Passenger Carriage Services Regulations using Three Wheelers and Taxis
(Cabs)” and shall come into operation on 10th October, 2013 within the Western Province.
2. According to the regulations of the Western Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services Statute,
three wheelers and taxis (cabs) are authorized vehicles and in addition to the following regulations, the regulations on three
wheelers and taxis under the Western Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services Statute, amendments done to
it and the regulations and rules enacted based on it are also applicable to the three wheelers and taxis with relevant
modifications.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'30
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -30.10.2013
2A
3. All the three wheelers and taxis employed constantly for the services within the Western Province needs to be
duly registered under the Western Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services Authority hereinafter referred to
as the “Authority”.
4. No one should use any three wheelers or taxis (cabs) within the Western Province constantly for regular passenger
carriage services with a fare or benefit unless the power do so is delegated under a regular passenger service permit issued
by the Authority which is valid for the relevant period or a permit issued by another Authority for Passenger Transport
Services.
5. All three wheelers or taxis (cabs) which are delegated with the powers to transport passengers with a fare or
benefit under a regular passenger service permit issued by the Authority or a permit issued by another Authority shall
display a copy of  the regular passenger service permit on the windscreen of the three wheeler or taxi (cab).
6. All three wheelers or taxis (cabs) which operate under the powers vested by a regular passenger service permit
issued by the Authority shall display the label of the passenger service permit issued by the “Authority” on the front right
hand side of body of the three wheeler or taxi (cab).
7. When applications are submitted to the Authority for registration of three wheelers or taxis (cabs), a quality
control report for the vehicle needs to be obtained from the Authority. Only if the running condition of the vehicle is
satisfactory, the quality control report will be issued.
8. When a company that is offering three wheeler or taxi (cab) services wants to apply for a passenger service permit,
the company shall submit its certificate of registration.
9. If a company is occupying vehicles for passenger transport services which do not belong to the company itself,
the company shall submit legal documents from the owners of those vehicles certifying the transfer of the vehicles to the
company for passenger transport services.
10. All the owners of the three wheelers or taxis who engaged constantly for the passenger transport services within
the Western Province shall submit an application to the Authority using an application form prescribed by the Authority.
11. Each application submitted to the Authority for passenger transport services of the three wheelers and taxis
(cabs) by the applicant should furnish information requested by the Authority on passenger safety measures and measures
on passenger comfort and any other information and documents in addition to the information requested in the application
itself.
12. A regular passenger transport service permit should not be issued to anyone other than a registered owner of a
three wheeler and a taxi (cab) or a company stated under number (8) to operate a constant passenger transport service.
13. Not more than one passenger transport service permit shall be issued to a three wheeler or a taxi (cab).
14. If there is any change to the information furnished in the application for a permit, the Authority shall be notified
such changes within 14 days from the date of change.
15. The passenger transport service permit offered for a three wheeler or a taxi (cab) for regular passenger transport
services shall not be alienated or transferred in any means without a prior written permission of the Authority. Such alienations
or transfers are null and void.
16. The passenger transport service permit offered for a three wheeler or a taxi (cab) will be valid for a period of 12
months from the date of issuing unless it is cancelled beforehand.
17. The passenger transport service permit offered for a three wheeler or a taxi (cab) for passenger transport by
another Authority will be valid only for the period specified by that particular Authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'30
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.10.2013
18. The fees for three wheelers or taxis (cabs) used for passenger transport will be as given in the schedule one given
below and these fees shall be paid to the Authority by the permit applicant or the permit holder.
19. A regular passenger transport service permit holder and anyone who has got the Authority to transport passengers
using a three wheeler or a taxi (cab) shall adhere to the conditions stipulated in the aforesaid regular passenger transport
service permit or stated by any other Authority.
20. The driver of each three wheeler or taxi (cab) used for passenger transport service under the Authority of a
regular passenger transport service permit or under any other Authority shall register under the Authority.
21.Any passenger transport service holder shall not employ a driver who is not registered under the Authority to
transport passengers in a permit holding three wheeler or a taxi (cab).
22. A driver who drives any three wheelers or taxis (cabs) under a regular passenger transport services permit or
under any other Authority for passenger transport services shall always posses the driver’s identity card issued by the
Authority when the three wheeler or the taxi (cab) is used in passenger transport services and all the information included in
the identity card shall be displayed clearly and visibly in the three wheeler or the taxi (cab).
23. Each three wheeler or taxi (cab) used for passenger transport service under the Authority of a regular passenger
transport service permit issued by the Authority shall fix a fare meter and the permit holder shall obey the regulations issued
from time to time by the Authority regarding the fare meter.
24. The noise generated by the loudspeakers fixed in the three wheeler or the taxi (cab) shall not exceed the noise
limit prescribed by the Authority.
25. Drivers of all the three wheelers and taxis (cabs) who hold permits shall obey the instructions and signals given
by the authorized officers of the Authority during running the vehicles.
26. Any three wheelers or taxis (cab) under a regular passenger transport services permit issued by the Authority for
passenger transport services shall display clearly  a formula on fare charged for passenger transport for the notice of the
passengers in the three wheeler or the taxi (cab).
27. The number of passengers carried in a three wheeler or a taxi (cab) shall not exceed the allowed number of
passengers.
28. A regular passenger transport service permit issued by the Authority or a permit issued by any other Authority
to a person for passenger transport using three wheelers or taxis (cabs) and in order to ensure that the person aforesaid abide
by the provisions under the Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport Services Statute or the directives, regulations and
rules composed under the the Statute, the Provincial Authority can issue directives which the Authority considers necessary
to the aforesaid person and the person to whom the directives are issued shall abide by the directives within the time periods
stipulated.
29. Breaching of the rules enacted for transporting the passengers in three wheelers and taxis (cabs) is an offence
and the fines charged for each breaching is given in the Schedule Two given below.
30. Owners of the three wheelers and taxis (cabs) should contribute to a social security pension system which is
recommended by the Transport Authority, Western Province.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'30
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -30.10.2013
4A
SCHEDULE  ONE
Rs.  cts.
01. Application fee for a passenger transport service permit 100.00
02. Regular passenger transport services permit fee 250.00
03. Transferring fee of a passenger transport services permit 500.00
04. For the label 30.00
Documents that have to be kept in the three wheeler or taxi (cab)
01. Revenue license
02. Insurance certification
03. Registration certificate at the Authority
04. Driving license
SCHEDULE  TWO
Rs.  cts.
01. Application fee for a passenger transport service permit 100.00
02. Not displaying the permit label accordingly 100.00
03. None adherence to the instructions given by a accredited official 100.00
04. Running without fixing an approved meter 100.00
05. Not displaying the label on the windscreen 100.00
06. Driver’s failure to possess the driver identity card issued by the Authority 100.00
07. Exceeding the allowable limit of sound that is generated by a loudspeaker 100.00
08. Failing to tender the documents, reports and details requested by the Authority on the permit 250.00
holding vehicle
09. Employing a driver for passenger transport who is not registered under the Authority 2,000.00
11 - 474
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.