

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'25
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 25.04.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2277$02 - 2022 wfm%a,a ui 25 jeks i`ÿod - 2022'04'25
No.  2277/02  -  moNdAy,   April   25,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-   pG 5827 — 531  (04/2022)
STRATEGIC  DEvELOPmENT  PROjECTS  ACT,  No.  14  Of 2008
Order under Subsection (4) of Section 3
By virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-Section (4) of Section 3 of the Strategic development projects Act, No 14 of 
2008 as amended, i mahinda rajapaksa, minister of Economic policies and plan implementation, do by this order declare 
that:-
	 1.	 The	 notification	containing	the	relevant	information	of	the	project	to	construct,	operate	and	maintain	a	four-lane	
elevated highway from New Kelani Bridge to Athurugiriya via rajagiriya (hereinafter referred to as “the project”) 
on a design-Build-Finance-operate-maintain and Handover (dBFomH) basis for a period of 18 years as a public-
Private-Partnership	(PPP)	with	an	envisaged	investment	of	USD	821.6	million	which	was	identified	as	a	Strategic	
development project for the purpose of Sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of the Strategic development projects Act, 
No. 14 of 2008 as amended (hereinafter referred to as “Sdp  Act”), was published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 
2254/3 dated November 15, 2021.
 2. The approval of the Cabinet of ministers has been obtained on march 14, 2022 in terms of Sub-Section (3) of 
Section 3 of the Sdp Act to declare that the project to construct, operate and maintain a four lane elevated highway 
from New Kelani Bridge to Athurugiriya via rajagiriya on design-Build-Finance-operate-maintain and Handover 
(dBFomH) basis for a period of 18 years as a public-private-partnership (ppp) with an envisaged investment of 
USd 821.6 million as a strategic development project.
Government Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'25
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 25.04.2022
2A
 3. The above Strategic development project shall be called and known as “Construct, operate and maintain a four-lane 
elevated from New Kelani Bridge to Athurugiriya via rajagiriya on a design-Build-Finance-operate-maintain and  
Handover (dBFomH) basis as a public-private-partnership (ppp) with an envisaged investment of USd 821.6 
million” land the project Company to undertake this project is CHEC NKBA elevated Highway (pvt) limited.
 4. The aforesaid “project to construct, operate and maintain a four-lane elevated highway from New Kelani Bridge 
to Athurugiriya via rajagiriya on design-Build-Finance-operate-maintain and Handover (dBFomH) basis as 
a public-private-partnership (ppp) with an envisaged investment of USd 821.6 million” shall implement and 
commence commercial operations within a period of three (3) years from the effective date of the Concession 
Agreement.
	 5.	 The	 exemption	from	the	enactments	specified	in	the	Schedule	to	this	Order	shall	apply	in	respect	of	the	“project	
to construct, operate and maintain a four-lane elevated highway from New Kelani Bridge to Athurugiriya via 
rajagiriya”. Further, to expedite the implementation of the project, the same concessions shall apply for any 
imports as set out in clause 2 through clause 6 in the Schedule during the period between the date of signing the 
Concession Agreement and the effective date set out in the Concession Agreement.
SCHEdUlE
1. Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
 Corporate income Tax
The	profit	and	income	generated	by	the	Project	to	be	exempted	from	Corporate	Income	Tax	under	the	Inland	
revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 during the construction period of three (03) years and the operation and maintenance 
period	of	fifteen	(15)	year,	after	the	construction	period.
 Tax on dividends
Tax on dividends for the shareholders of the project Company in relation to the distribution of dividend income 
shall	be	exempted	during	the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	and	one	(01)	year	thereafter.
 Tax on payment of interest on foreign loans, fees to consultants, management fees and royalty
The project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax (WHT) on the following ;
 
 (i) on the interest of foreign loans taken for capital expenditure;
 (ii) on fees paid to Consultants [up to forty (40) consultants in the construction period of three (03) years 
and	up	to	twenty	(20)	consultants	in	the	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	construction	
period]; and
	 (iii)	 On	Management	Fees	and	Royalty	Payments	[not	exceeding	five	(05)	percent	of	the	total	project	cost	
during the construction period of three (03) years and not exceeding two (02) percent of the total project 
cost	during	the	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	construction	period].
 
 Capital Gains Tax
The shareholders of the project Company and the project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Capital 
Gains	Tax	during	the	construction	period	of	three	(03)	years	and	the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	
(15) years after the construction period.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'25
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 25.04.2022
3A
income Tax on Employment
The expatriate employees (technical and managerial experts) of the project Company shall be exempted from the 
payment	of	income	tax	arising	from	the	gains	and	profits	from	employment	in	relation	to	the	Project,	as	set	out	
below;
 (i) for a period of three (03) years from the date of commencement of construction [subject to a maximum 
number of forty (40) expatriate employees].
	 (ii)	 for	 a	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	construction	period	[subject	to	a	maximum	number	of	twenty	
(20) expatriate employees].
2. The value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 (vAT Act)
All imports of project related goods as approved by the Board of investment of Sri lanka (hereinafter referred 
to as “Boi”) and services required for the implementation of the project, shall be exempted from the payment of 
Value Added Tax (V AT) during the construction period of three (03) years from the effective date of the Concession 
Agreement	and	the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	Construction	Period.
V AT on local purchases of project related goods as approved by the Boi and services required for the implementation 
of the project, shall be deferred during the construction period of three (03) years from the effective date of the 
Concession	Agreement	and	the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	Construction	Period.
Further, the semi-annuity service payment by the Government of Sri lanka to the project Company including 
interest income receivable under the Concession Agreement shall be exempted from the payment of V AT during 
the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	Construction	Period.
3. The Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of ports and Airports development levy 
(pAl), on all imported project related goods as approved by the Boi (Whether directly imported by the project 
Company or sourced through any contractor(s) or sub-contructor(s)) provided the goods are consingned in the 
name of the project Company during the Construction period of three (03) years from the effective date of the 
Concession	Agreement	and	the	operation	and	maintenance	Period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	Construction	Period.
4. Excise (Special Provision) Act, No. 13 of 1989
import of project related items as approved by the Boi, by the project Company, its contractor(s) and its sub-
contractor (s) provided the goods are consigned in the name of the project Company shall be exempted from the 
charge and payment of Excise duty during the Construction period of three (03) years from the effective date of 
the	Concession	Agreement	and	the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	Construction	
period.
5. Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979
import of project related items as approved by the Boi by the project Company, its contractor(s) and its sub-
contractor (s) provided the goods are consigned in the name of the project Company shall be exempted from 
the charge and payment of CESS during the Construction period of three (03) years from the effective date of 
the	Concession	Agreement	and	the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	the	Construction	
period.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'25
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 25.04.2022
4A
6. Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
All imports of project related items whether directly imported by the project Company or sourced through any 
contractor (s) or sub-contractor(s) provided the goods are consigned in the name of the project Company (other 
than the items listed in the Negative list published by the ministry of Finance) as approved by the Boi, shall 
be exempted from Customs import duty (Cid), during the Construction period of three (03) years from the 
effective	date	of	the	Concession	Agreement	and	the	operation	and	maintenance	period	of	fifteen	(15)	years	after	
the Construction period.
However, any importation of items in the Negative list shall be considered by the Boi where such items are either 
not	wholly	produced	in	Sri	Lanka	or	are	not	available	in	sufficient	quality,	quantity	and	considering	the	timeline	
for completion.
 M
ahinda Rajapaksa, M.P,
 minister of Economic policies plan implementation.
ministry of Economic policies and plan implementation,
Colombo,
25th April, 2022.
EoG 04-0224
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.