

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MAHAWELI
CULTURAL FOUNDATION TRUST
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 27 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 06th May, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 07, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
Preamble.
[Certified on 06th May, 2009]
L.D.—O. INC. 7/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  OF  THE
M AHAWELI  CULTURAL  FOUNDATION  TRUST
WHEREAS a company called and Known as the “Mahaweli
Cultural Foundation Trust” has heretofore been registered
under the provisions of the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982,
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
the objects and matters connected with the said company
according to the rules hitherto in force and the Memorandum
and Articles of Association of such company :
AND WHEREAS the affairs and objects of the said company
have heretofore been successfully managed and carried out
by the Board of Directors of such company :
AND WHEREAS the said Board of Directors has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Board of Directors of
the Mahaweli Cultural Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
the members of Board of Directors for the time being of the
Mahaweli Cultural Foundation Trust (hereinafter referred to
as the “Trust”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members  of
the Board of Directors of the said Trust shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession under the name and style of the “Board
of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural Foundation Trust” and
by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and to use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
Incorporation of
the  Board of
Directors of the
Mahaweli
Cultural
Foundation
Trust.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to complete the sacred Kotmale Mahaweli Maha
Seya, which is presently under construction and
carry out maintenance and rehabilitation thereof;
(b) to ensure and facilitate the performance of
traditional Buddhist and cultural rituals at
Mahaweli Maha Seya;
(c) to hold exhibitions, lectures, seminars and make
publications in order to promote awareness about
the objectives of the Corporation;
(d) to act for the benefit of Buddhist institutions all
over Sri Lanka giving priority to Central
Province where the sacred Mahaweli Maha Seya is
situated;
(e) to take every possible step to assist the progress of
the Buddha Sasana;
(f) to protect Buddhism and popularize the righteous
life style preached therein, among Buddhists;
(g) to improve the educational activities of Buddhist
children and to improve their spiritual values;
(h) to establish friendly relationships with Buddhist
organizations both in Sri Lanka and abroad;
(i) to protect cultural identities of Buddhists.
4. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
General objects
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the resignation
from or vacation of or removal from office of
office-bearers and their powers, duties and
functions;
(c) the election of the members of the Board of Directors
and its powers, duties and functions and the
terms of office of the members of the Board and the
filling of vacancies of the members of the Board;
(d) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors
the times, dates, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum therefor and the conduct of
business thereat; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 4 of this Act.
5. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund
(hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”) and all moneys received
by way of gift, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution,
fees or grants for  and on account of the Corporation, shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as  the Board of Directors shall determine.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
(2) All moneys lying to the credit of the Trust in any Bank
or in any other institution, on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act, shall be transferred to
the Fund of the Corporation with effect from the date of
commencement of this Act.
(3) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
(4) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exercise
and discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporation
shall be paid out of the Fund.
6. (1) The Management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall subject to the other provisions of this
Act and the rules made under section 4 of this Act, be
administered by a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred
to as the “Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Secretary,
Treasurer, Vice Chairman, Deputy-Secretary and such other
members, elected in accordance with the rules made under
section 4.
(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of
the Board of Directors of the Trust, holding office on the
day, immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
7. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which every person who on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act is a member of the
Trust and every person hereinafter duly admitted as a
member of the Corporation shall have his name inscribed.
8. The Corporation shall have the power to appoint
committees and to take such other steps as may be deemed
necessary, from time to time, for the efficient discharge of the
functions of the Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Register of
members.
Appointment of
Committees.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
9. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid or discharged by the Corporation and all debts due to
and subscriptions and fees payable to the Trust on that day
shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
10. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power —
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations
in cash or kind ;
(b) to acquire in manner whatsoever, hold and take or
give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge or sell or
otherwise dispose of any property movable or
immovable ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments ;
(d) to open, operate and close bank accounts and borrow
or raise money with or without security ;
(e) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Board may deem fit ;
(f) to erect or cause to be erected any structure or
building on any land belonging to or held by the
Corporation ;
(g) to enter into contracts or agreements with any person
or body of persons ; and
Debts due by
and payable to
the Trust.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section
4 of this Act with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman or the Secretary or such other person duly
authorized by the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is or
are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members.The Board
shall determine such institution or institutions at the time of
the dissolution of the Corporation or prior to such dissolution.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
How the seal of
the Corporation
to be affixed.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Board of Directors of the Mahaweli Cultural
Foundation Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.