

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  08th July,  2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th June 2022.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2022.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
  
Page 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 170
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"285 - 2022 cqks ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'06'17                                            
No. 2,285 - FRIDAy , JUNE 17, 2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
169 -  B 082355 - 353 (06/2022)
Note .- (i) Provincial Council Elections (Amendment) Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of  03rd June, 2022.
  (ii)  Parliamentary Elections (Amendment) Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of  03rd June, 2022.
N. B.–   Parts II of the Gazette No. 2,284 of 10.06.2022 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'06'17
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 17.06.2022
170
miscellaneous  land notices
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General: 4/10/68119.
Ref. No. of Provincial Land Commissioner : NCP/PLC/L09/
LTL.
notIfIcatIon  under  state  land 
regulatIon no. 21(2)
IT is hereby noticed that Mr. Ishaq Muhammadi Ifthi has 
requested a state land allotment in extent of 01A, 02R 
depicted in the plan prepared by the Land Officer and 
situated in the Village of Palu Kumbukvewa of No. 515, 
Hiripitiyagama Grama Niladhari Division which belongs to 
Ipalogama Divisional Secretary's Division in the District of 
Anuradhapura on lease for Commercial purposes.
02. The boundaries of the land requested are given below.-.
 
On the North by   :  Footpath and main Road reserve;
On the East by   :  Main Road reserve and land claimed 
by Mr. K. Jayaappu;
On the South by   :  Land claimed by Mr. K. Jayaappu 
and Kumbukvewa reserve;
On the West by  :  Kumbukvewa reserve and footpath.
 The requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions :
 ( a) Term of the  lease : Thirty (30) years (from 22.02.2022 
onwards)
  Annual amount of the lease : In the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year of 2022 is less than 
five million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 2% of the market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of 
the Chief Valuer. In the instances where the valuation 
of land in the effective year of lease is more than five 
million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the market value 
of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of the 
Chief valuer. This amount of the lease must be revised 
in every five years and the revision shall be added a 
20% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Not levied.
 
 (b) The lessees must, within a period of one (01) year from 
the date of commencement of the lease, develop the said 
land to the satisfaction of the Divisional Secretary ;
 ( c) The  lessees  must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than  a Commercial purpose ;
 (d) This lease shall also be subject to other special 
conditions imposed by the Divisional Secretary/ 
Scopin Committee/ BOI of Sri Lanka and other 
institutes; 
 ( e) Existing/ Constructed buildings must be maintained 
in a proper state of repair;
 (f) If the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
 ( g) No permission will be granted until expiry of  05 years 
from 22.02.2022 for any subleasing or assigning other 
than subleasing or assigning to substantiate the purpose 
of which the land was obtained;
 ( h) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
06 weeks of herein Gazette  publication to the effect that this 
land must not be given on lease, the land shall be leased out 
as requested.
 D. D. N. C. K
aruNarathNa, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 For Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura", 
 Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
31st March, 2022.
06 - 272
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.