

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
511
511
wxl 1"549 _ 2008 uehs 09 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'05'09
No. 1,549 – FRIDAY , MAY 09, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 514
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 517
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th May, 2008, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 02nd May, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part I/III, II, III and Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,548 of 02.05.2008 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
512
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
513
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
514
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  HOUSING  AND  COMMON   AMENITIES
Post of Camera Operator (Video) Grade III
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
for the post of Camera Operator (Video) Grade III in the Ministry
of Housing and Amenities. The applications made as per the
specimen mentioned  below should be sent under registered post to
reach the Secretary, Ministry  of Housing and Common Amenities,
Second Floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla on or before 30.05.2008.
The "Post  of Camera Operator (Video) Grade III" should be marked
on the top left - hand corner of the envelope.
Note.- (a) Incomplete applications not made as per the specimen
will be rejected.
(b) Complaints on loss and delay of the applications in the
post will not be considered.
(c) Officers already in the Public Service should forward
their applications through the Head of Department.
(d) The number of vacancies for this post is 01(one).
02. Terms of employment and conditions of service for the
above mentioned post :
(a) Post is permanent and pensionable. Will be required to
contribute to the Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme/
Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme. Appointment is
subject to a probationary period of 03 years.
(b) General conditions relating to the Public Service
appointments indicated at the beginning of the para (IIa) of
Part 1 of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka will apply.
(c) Should obtain the proficiency in the official language within
the stipulated period in terms of the Official Language Policy
and Public Administration Circular No. : 7/2007.
03. Salaries and Allowances - monthly salary scale attached
to the Post is as follows  :-
(a) According to the Public Administration Circular 6/2006
(MTI - 2006)
(b) Rs. 14,000 - 10 x 120 - 11 x 140 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 290 -
Rs. 22,060 (Applicable to the Grade III/II "b")
(c) Should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within 3 years
of appointment. Will not be exempted from the Efficiency
Bar based on the age.
04. Qualification required :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Should be of excellent character and of sound physical
health.
(c) Should be over 18 years of age and not more than 45 years
of age on 30.05.2008 (Upper age limit will not apply to
those who are already in Public/Provincial Council Service).
05. Educational qualifications :
(a) A pass in the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six
(06) subjects in not more than two sittings with credit
passes in 04 subjects including Language. Mathematics
and Science (a pass in a minimum of 05 subject at one
sitting) ;
or
(b) A pass in the NCGE Examination in six (06) subjects in not
more than two sittings with credit passes in 04 subjects
including the above subjects (a pass in a minimum of 05
subjects at one sitting) ;
06. Professional qualifications
(a) A Diploma in Photography from a recognized University
or Technical College or Government recognized Professional
Institute.
or
(b) Should have successfully followed a one - year full time or
two - year part time Professional Course in Photography
offered at a Government - recognized professional institute
and obtained certificates.
07. Experience :
5 Years experience as a Photographer (to be supported by
certificates)
08. Method of Recruitment :
Recruitment will be made by an interview and a  practical test.
W. B. G
ANEGALA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Housing and
Common Amenities
Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities,
2nd Floor,
"Sethsiripaya"
Battaramulla,
23 rd April, 2008.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
515
Ministry of Housing and Common Amenities
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF CAMERA OPERA TOR
(VIDEO) GRADE III
01. Name in full (in block letters):———.
Mr/Mrs/Miss
02. Name with initials :———.
03. Address (any change of address to be notified immediately):
(a) Private address :———.
Telephone No :———.
(b) Official address :———.
Teleohone No :———.
04. Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
(b) Age as at closing date of the application :.
Years Months Days
(c) N. I. C. No
05. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka? :———.
06.(a) Sex :———.
(b) Civil status :———.
07. The highest examination passed in the following subjects  :
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
08. Educational/Professional qualifications :
8.1 G . C. E. (O/L) :
Y ear :———. Examination No :———.
Subjects Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
8.2 G . C. E. (A/L) :
      Year :———. Examination No. :———.
Subjects Grade
01
02
03
04
8.3 :
Degree/Diploma Year Subjects
09. If presently employed, particulars of employment :
Institution Designation From To Annual
Salary
10. Other qualifications relevant to the profession :———.
11. Whether you were found guilty of a criminal offence in a court
of law at any time :———.
12. Have you served in the Public Service earlier :———.
(if so, please give particulars of employment)
13. Copies of the following certificates (not originals) are attached
hereto :
(a) Birth certificate ;
(b) Certificates of educational qualifications ;
(c) Certificates of professional qualifications ;
(d) Certificates of experience.
14. Names and the addresses of two non-related referees (with
telephone Nos.) :
1.
2.
15. Any other relevant information :———.
16. I hereby declare that the information furnished in this
application is true and accurate. I am aware that if any
information herein is found to be false or inaccurate before my
selection, I will be liable for disqualification and dismissal
without compensation if found to be so subsequent to the
appointment.
———,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :———.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
516
17. Certificate of the Head of Department :
(Only if the applicant is employed in the Public/Provincial
Public service)
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss........................ is employed
in this Department his/her  work and conduct is satisfactory, and
has completed the relevant qualifications as indicated in this
notification and state that he/she could/could not be released from
the present post if selected for this post.
———,
Signature of Head of
Department.
Designation.
Date :———.
05-133
MINISTRY  OF  TRADE,  MARKETING  DEVELOPMENT,
COOPERATIVES  AND  CONSUMER SERVICES
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka
POST OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY TECHNICAL
ASSISTANT
APPLICATIONS are invited from those qualified for the above
vacancy at the National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in A4 size papers in accordance with the
specimen form published at the end this notice should be  forwarded
by registered post to reach the Director General, National
Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka "Samagam Medura" , 3rd
Floor, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before 26th
May 2008.
Applications not in accordance with the specimen form or
received after the closing date will be rejected. The post of
‘Intellectual Property Technical Assistant' should be mentioned in
the left hand corner of the envelope.
01. Post :
Intellectual Property Technical Assistant
(Number of posts - 01)
02. Education and other qualifications :
(i) A degree (Physical Science or Bio Science) from a
recognized University.
(ii) Ability to work in English is essential for this post.
03. Monthly Salary Scale :
Rs. 15,215 - 10 x 215 - 4 x 240 -7 x 320 - 15 x 360 - Rs. 25,965
(According to Public Administration Circular No. : 06/2006-
iv)
04. Age Limit :
Applicants must be over 18 years and not more than 45 years.
Upper age limit does not apply to those already employed in
State/Provincial Service.
05. Conditions of employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable
(ii) The selected applicant should contribute to widows’/
Widowers’ and orphans’ pension fund
(iii) Provisions of paragraphs 10-12 in Chapter II of the
Establishment Code shall apply.
06. Method of Recruitment :
The selection will be made from those who score the highest
marks in a structured interview.
07. Other :
The applicants already employed in State/Provincial Service
must submit their applications through the respective Head
of the Dept./Institution.
Director General of Intellectual Property,
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka,
"Samagam Medura",
3rd Floor,
D. R. Wijewardana Mawatha,
Colombo -10.
For Official use only
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka
POST OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY TECHNICAL
ASSISTANT
01. Name with initials : Mr/Miss/Mrs :———.
02. Name in Full :———.
03. Permanent Address :———.
04. Postal Address :———.
05. National Identity Card Number :———.
06. Sex :———.
07. (i) Date of Birth : Year :——. Month :——. Date :——.
(ii) Age as at 26.05.2008 Years :——.        Months :——.
Days :——.
08. Civil Status :———.
09. Educational Qualifications :
Degree Year Subjects Class University
10. Declaration of the applicant :
I ....…………………… declare that all information given
above are true to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that I
shall not be entitled to be interviewed if the above particulars

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
517
are found to be inaccurate or wrong and that I shall be liable to
be dismissed from service without compensation if the same
is proved after recruitment.
———,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :———.
11. Certification of the Head of the Department/Institution for
the applicants already employed in State/Provincial Service :
I hereby inform that Mr/Miss/Mrs..……………….. the
applicant, is presently employed as a permanent/temporary/
casual/trainee officer  in this Ministry/Department/Institution.
He/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action (other
than warning) and he/she can be/cannot be released, if selected.
———,
Signature of the Head of
The Dept./Institution.
(Official seal)
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,  SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC SERVICE
SRI LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI LANKA  POLICE  SERVICE  AND  SRI LANKA   ARCHITECTURES'
SERVICE  -  2008
EFFICIENCY Bar Examination and the Second Language Test for Officers in the above mentioned Services will be held in Colombo and
Jaffna in August 2008.
02. Time Tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the both Efficiency Bar Examination at the same time.
03. Syllabus :
Service Efficiency Bar Examinations Date and Appendix
Number of the relevant to the
Gazette Syllabus
Notification
Sri Lanka Administrative First Efficiency Bar Examination 14.11.2005 'C'
Service 1419/3
Second Efficiency Bar - Do - 'D'
Examination
Second Language Test - Do - ‘E’
Sri Lanka Accountants First Efficiency Bar 27.07.2001 'B'
Service Examination 1194/26
Second Efficiency Bar Examination - Do - 'D'
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations at one sitting or different occasions, if they wish
so.
However officers are required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within the prescribed period. Action will be taken to
conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second Language Test at one centre.
RECRUITMENT OF WOMEN POLICE CONSTABLE TO
THE  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
AS published in Govt. Gazette No. 1545 of 11.04.2008 the Age
limit for women police constables has been extended upto 28 years.
Inspector General of Police.
05-293
Date :———.
Designation :———.
Ministry/Dept./Institution :———.
05-135

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
518
04. (a) Subjects prescribed for the Efficiency Bar in each Service are as follows :
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
01 Constitutional Law and 3 20 Economics and Social Politics 3
Administrative Law (with Special reference to Sri
Lanka)
02 The Legal System of Sri 3 21 Systems relating to 3
Lanka Development Administration
(with special reference to Sri
Lanka)
03 Criminal Law and  Evidence 3 22 Management and Organization 3
Law
23 Public  Sector Financial 3
Management
05 Administration 3
06 Economics 3
07 Social Science 3
08 English 3
Second Language Test Officer in other services
mentioned in this notification
can also apply for the 2nd
Language Test, if they wish so.
09 Sinhala (Written) 2
10 Tamil (Written) 2
11 English (Written) 2
12 Sinhala (Oral)
13 Tamil (Oral)
14 English (Oral)
Sri  Lanka Accountant Service
First Efficiency Bar Examination Second Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours No. Hours
30 Government Financial 3 3 6 Management Accountancy 3
Procedures
31 Law and Management 3 37 Public Financial 3
Management
32 Administration 3 38 Management and 3
Organisation
33 Reports writing and 3 Second Language Test
presenting information to Officers who apply for this
Management test please see under Sri
Lanka Administrative
Service for subjects and
subject numbers

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
519
Sri Lanka Police Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
80 Administration of Justice Law and Evidence Ordinance 3
81 Penal Code and Police Ordinance 3
Officer who apply for the Second Language - Please See under Sri Lanka
Administrative Service for subjects and subjects numbers.
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Architecture's Service and Sri Lanka Scientific Service
Subject Subject Duration
No. Hours
04 Financial Systems 3
05 Administration 3
Names of Examinations
04(b)
Sri Lanka Administrative Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Administrative Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Second Language Test 03
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Accountants' Service Second Efficiency Bar Examination 02
Sri Lanka Scientific Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Architectures' Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Police Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
Sri Lanka Engineering Service First Efficiency Bar Examination 01
05. Exemption from the requirement of passing Efficiency Bar Examination
Sri Lanka Accountant Subject Qualification to be exempted
Service
Second Efficiency Bar 36 - Management Diploma in Public Finance Management conducted by
Examination Accountancy Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration;
37 - Public Finance
Management or
38 - Management and Higher Diploma in  computer programming conducted
Organization  by Business Management Institution;
or
Post graduate Diploma in Accountancy, Commerce, Management
Public Administration, Business Administration Computer Science/
Master of Arts/ph.d;
or
passing the final examination in one of the following
Institute of  Chartered Accountants,
Institute of Chartered Management Accountants
Chartered Association of Certified  Accountant,
British Computer Association,
Australian Computer Association,
or
Any other similar qualification
recognized by the Board.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
520
6. Arrangements will be made by the commissioner General of Examination to enable the candidates to answer all the Subjects in
Sinhala, Tamil or English other than the question papers relating to languages.
7. If any candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be cancelled .
8. Application should be submitted in the specimen appended and in such a way that nos. 1-7 appears on the 1st page. The
application form should be filled by own handwriting. Applications that do not comply with the specimen or that have not been
completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application forwarded to the
Department of Examinations with the candidate for future reference in making any inquiries with regard to the admission cards.
9. Application should be sent through the respective Head of Department by registered post to reach the following address on or
before 16th June 2008. Application received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
Commissioner General,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta - Battaramulla.
10. A notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued t o
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of  such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. The Department of Examinations should be informed
of it by a letter of inquiry along with the certified photocopy of the application form, receipt of registration and, in case o f
applicants outside Colombo, a Fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
11. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to comply with the requirements as laid down in paragraph 10 above will not
be entertained.
12. The attention of all candidates is invited to Circular No. SE 274 of 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the use of identity Cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity through any of the followin g
identity card at the Examination Hall.
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) V alid Passport.
13. Examination fee will be as follows :
(a) First sitting (Whole examination or part there of) free of charge :
(b) Each subsequent sitting
Rs. C.
Complete Examination 115.00
One Subject 75.00
Oral Test 75.00
The fees should be paid in revenue stamps duly cancelled by the candidate with his signature thereon.
D. Dissanayake,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
16th May 2008.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
521
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
Appendix 'C'
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service will comprise the following
subjects :
(1) Law
(2) Administration
(3) ( a) Economics : or
(b) Sociology :
(4) English
Scheme of Examinations
(1) Law (consist of 3 papers)
Syllabus :-
Subject No. 01 - Constitutional Law and Administrative Law
(i) The Structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the second Republic Constitution.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic, Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister, Central Government Department and
the Public Service
(iii) Administration of Justice
(iv) Judicial Control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) F undamental Rights.
Subject No. 02 - The Legal System of Sri Lanka
(i) The Legal history of Sri Lanka
(ii) The Organization of the Courts ;
(iii) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6)
(iv) The act of No.44 of 1971 Administration of Justice.
Subject No. 03 - Criminal Law and Evidence Law
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 35% in each paper and an average of 40%.
(2) Subject No. 05 - Administration ; One paper based on following  :
(i) Office and field organization and methods ;
(ii) The Establishement Code Chapters ;
I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent.
(3) (a) Subject No. 06 - Economics - One paper based on the following ;-
(i) Principles of  economic with special reference to the theories of  Value, Production and Distribution
(ii) Money, Production and Distribution ;
(iii) Economic Structure of Sri Lanka
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
522
(b) Subject No. 07- Sociology - One paper based on the following (with special reference to Sri Lanka)
(i) Social Structure, Organization and functions ;
(ii) Human relationships and groupings ;
(iii) Kinship, marriage and the family ;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society ;
(v) Social stratification and differentiation ;
(vi) Social Control ;
(vii) Culture, religion, morals and values;
Note : A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(2) Subject No. 08 - English
Content
Listening and Speaking Skills
The candidate should posses  the ability to function effectively in the following functions
- General Greetings and Introductions
- Giving and  Getting Informations
- Advising, Suggesting and Expressing Opinions
- Describing Events and Situations
- Telephone Skills
- Interviewing Skills
- Meeting
- Listening and Note Taking Skills
English Grammer
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammer in the spoken the written language is expected from the candi date.
- Tense and Number
- Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
- Relative Clauses
- Reported Speech
- Adjectives and Adverbs
- Determiners
- Prepositions
Writing Skills
The Knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing in tested in this area of study.
- Internal modes of Communication
- Formal Correspondence skills
- Writing Descriptions/Explanations
- Summary writing Skills
- Report Writing Skills
- Meeting Minutes/Agendas/Invitations
- Comprehension
Reading Skills
Candidates ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation is expected.
- Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text
- Reading and Interpretation (verbal/Written)
- Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage
Note : A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
523
Appendix "D"
Sri Lanka Administrative Service
The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service will comprise the following subjects;
(1) Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka),
(2) The Process for Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka),
(3) Management and Organization,
(4) Public Sector Financial Management.
SYLLABUS
(1) Subject No. 20 - Economic and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka)
One paper based on the factors which influence the formulation of economic and social policy in Sri
Lanka. The application of the principles of Economics and Sociology in the recent economical, social
and political history of Sri Lanka.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(2) Subject No. 21 - The process of Development Administration  (with special reference to Sri Lanka) One paper
based on the Institution of development administration, their working and their inter - relationships
with special reference to -
(a) The Machinery of Government in Sri Lanka.
(b) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka.
(c) Provincial Councils and Local Government.
(d) People’s Organizations.
(e) Public Corporations.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(3) Subject No. 22 - Management and Organization ; One paper based on -
the principles of management and organization;
the application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector modern tools and
techniques of management.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
(4) Subject No. 23 - Public Sector Financial Management - One paper based on following.
(a) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka
Constitutional Provisions Relating to Public Financial
Management
Parliamentary Control Over Public Finance
Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and Its operation
Meaning and Methods of Appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other Funds and their Operation
Government Revenue
Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and Functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Auditor General, his Powers and Functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
524
(b) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers
and Revenue Accounting Officers and their Powers Function
(c) Internal Audit
(d) Public Expenditure Planning and Management :
Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and the Work
Programmes
Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and
Prioritization of them
Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of
Revenue and Expenditure
(e) Variations of Approved Estimates of Expenditure
Application of Virement Procedure
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
Total Cost Estimates and Revisions
Supplementary Estimates
(f) Losses and Waivers of Govt. Properties
(g) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
(h) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
(i) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure
(j) Govt. Procurement Procedure
Procurement of Goods, Services and Works
Composition, Appointment, Powers and Functions of Tender
Boards and Technical Evaluation Committees
Tender Evaluation Procedure
Management of Donor Funded Projects.
Note - A candidate will be required to obtain 40%.
Appendix "B"
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTANT’S  SERVICE
Fist Efficiency Bar Examination
The First Efficiency Bar Examination will comprise of 4 papers of 3 hours each in the following subjects:
Government Financial Procedure:
Law and Management:
Administration:
Report writing and Presenting Information to management.
Officers may take up the subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on separate
occasions if they so desire.
Candidates will be required to obtain 40 percent in each paper for a pass.
SYLLABUS:-
(1) Government Financial Procedures:- Candidates will be tested on the application of the Government Financial Regulations and
Treasury Circulars in respect to Government transaction, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditur e, foreign

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
525
aid, annual and supplementary estimate, public debt, procurements, tenders imprests and advances, financial sanctions, the acco unts of
the island, functional and economic classification, programme and performance budget, functions of the Minister of Finance the General
Treasury the Planning Ministry, the Secretaries, the Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee.
LAW  AND  MANAGEMENT
Law:
Definition of Law,
Legal systems in Sri Lanka,
Court system in Sri lanka,
Law of Contracts,
Law of agency,
Sale of goods,
Hire purchase,
Negotiable instruments,
Guarantee,
Insurance
Management :
Introduction to management,
Functions and skills of managers,
Planning process and setting organizational levels,
Organizations Structure,
Management of human resources,
Performance evaluation,
Promotion,
Motivation,
Leadership,
Communication,
Decision making,
Problem solving,
Management of change,
Managing conflicts,
Managing time,
Quality circles and productivity,
Management ethics and responsibility
Administration:- Candidates will be tested on provisions in the Establishment Code Part I and Part II.
Report Writing and Presenting Information to Management;
Importance of timeliness, accuracy, completeness and relevance in relation to management
information,
Dealing with reference materials,
Periodic and ad-hoc reports,
Writing minutes and reports of meetings,
Structure of Management reports,
Significant results to be highlighted,
Interpretation of results,
Suggestions to variations,
Use of statistical methods in analyzing data,
Performance comparison,
Use of ratios, percentages in management reports,
Diagrammatic representations,
Listening to professional talks and lectures,
Reporting lectures in speech,
Panel discussions,
Seminar skills,
Delivering a speech,

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
526
Appendix "D"
The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Accountant's Service will comprise the following subjects;-
(1) Management Accounting
(2) Public Finance Management
(3) Management and Organization
Officers may take up the subjects of the 2nd efficiency bar examination on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions a s they
so desier. A candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the marks for a pass.
Scheme of Examination
(1) Management Accounting - A paper of 3 hour duration.
Syllabus :- Control theory in accounting feed back, open and closed loop systems. Types of standard costs ideal basic and
correct.
Principles and practice of setting performance standards and value standards revision of standard, consideration of the learning
curve and motivation. The analysis significance presentation and investigation of variances and sub-variances, behavioral aspec ts of
control accounting. The budgeting concept, the administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, master
and subsidiary budgets, budget centers, management participation in budget preparation, involvement and motivation, The Budget period
and identification of the principal budget factor.
(2) Public Financial Management  :- A paper of 3 hours duration. Selection of question will not be allowed.
Role of Government Accountant  : Constitutional and legal framework of public finance, Institutional framework, Central
Government, Government Corporaion, Local Authorities, Co-operative Movement etc.
Parliamentary Control Functions of Treasury, Planning Ministry, Estaimates Committee, Auditor General, Public Account
Committee, Consolidated Fund, Problems of Parliamentary Control.
The Financial Cycle, Planning, Programming Budgeting, Funding Authorization, Accounting, Reporting, Evaluation and Audit.
Project appraisal, application of shadow prices and statistical data, determination of pay off metric and expected value, cost
benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal rate of return, ranking of project, economic financial and managerial aspects of projects
fourmulation and appraisal, effective project presentation.
Programming Techniques, applications of network - analysis assignment of resources, transportation, problem, replacement of
assets that degenerate with use or passage of time and those which do not but which fall after certain amount of use of time.
Performance budget installation of basic methods, measurement of performance, kind of measure, selecting unit and rooms,
systems of measurement and performance analysis.
Performance budget, programme structure, Classification by functions, programmes activities projects and objects of expenditure.
Financial controls Accountability, Internal control and Financial Regulation, Internal Audit, Efficiency Audit, Management
Audit.
Pricing in Public Enterprises.
Financial control of Government, commercial enterprises, budgeting management, reporting interpretation of account, the use
of financial ratios.
Design and content of accounts and reports of Government and Public undertakings.
Note :-A Candidate will be required to obtain minimum of 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
(3) Management and Organization :- A paper of 3 hours duration.
The questions in this subject will be designed to assess the candidate's grasp of the principles of management and organization.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
527
Appendix "E"
Sinhala
The Test in Sinhala will consist of a Written and on oral part.
The written paper will be of two hours duration and will contain question on :
(i) Grammer,
(ii) Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharis’ written in different running
hands.
(iii) Traslation into Sinhala from an Official paper of document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(a) Dictation of Official material from English into Sinhala so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written
by a Sinhalese,
(ii) Reading of a petition in Sinhala,
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation :— The purpose of the test will be assess the candidates' power of understanding Sinhala
of different classes and of making himself understood both in common conversation and in the usual course of official
business.
A candidate is required to obtain 40% marks for each section of the written and oral subject for a pass.
Tamil
The Test in Tamil will consist of a Written and an Oral part.
The written paper which will be of two hours duration and will contain question on :
(b) Grammer
(ii) Translation into English of petitions or reports from Headmen or Grama Seva Niladharies written in different running
hands.
(iii) T ranslation into Tamil from an Official paper or document in English.
The Oral Test will consist of the following :
(c) Dictation of Official material from English into Tamil so that the passage can be understood and taken down or written by
a Tamil
(ii) Reading of a Tamil petition.
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation :-The purpose of the test will be to assess the candidates' power of understanding Tamil
of different classes and of making himself understood both in common conversation and in the usual course of official
business.
Note.-A candidate is required to obtain 40% marks for each section of written and oral subject for a pass.
English
A prototype of the question paper is furnished below for the information of candidates :-
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given within brackets :-
During the last war our contry ……………… I (be) a British Colony ………………………… 2 (take) a full part in the war
effort. Consequently our tea, rubber and coconut …………… 3 (ship) to Britain at very favouarble prices and the foreign exchange W e
…………… (4) (earn) …………… 5 (accumulate) as assets. Again during the Korean war in the early fifties our products ……………
6 (fetch) good prices and we ……………7 (not have) any exchange problem. However, political independence …………… 8 (not given
rise) to any effort to …………… 9 (build up) our economy we …………… 10 (be) a nation of consumers goods which …………… 11

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
528
(Squander) our foreign exchange on consumer goods which ……………12 (can produce) locally and incidentally diversified our economy.
Over the last decade we …………… 13 (begin) to feel the pinch when our primary products ……………14 (fail) to command good
prices in the world market while our requirements of food both rice and subsidiary food stuffs …………… 15 (rise) in price.
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where necessary)
As Assistant Secretary …………… 16 charge …………… 17 subjects, it was my duty to convene groups of officers dealing
…………… 18 different aspects of development work in the Ministry ……………19 time to time. They discussed …………… 20
various problems that they confronted and which they could not cope …………… 21 on their own. We were thus able to share our
experience …………… 22each other and make concrete proposals …………… 23 the Secretary every month. He in turn put ……………
24 his own plans for discussion …………… 25 these meetings.
(b) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would complete the spelling of the following words :
26. har …………… ment (rass/as/ass)
27. ember …………… (rass/as/ass)
28. tol …………… (arreance/erance/erence)
29. Par …………… arian (liament/limen/liment)
30. bal …………… ing (let/lat/lot)
31. itin …………… (erary/arary/erarie)
32. Pers …………… (everanc/everence/ewerence)
33. bour …………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
34. prolet …………… (ariet/ariat/eriyat)
35. com …………… ate (memorr/emor/memor)
(c) In each of the following statements underline the correct word within brackets :-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Surveillance/Survey/Surveyors)
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer has (contradicted/contravened/contaminated) the regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/counterfeit/counterpane) for the purpose of audit.
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated/fumigated/promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate/infitrate/felicitate) the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid (luxuriant/luxurious) habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary/Stationery) sparingly owing to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phrase in the brackets that means the same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence :-
46. In good management the boss should, support his staff in their work (back out/back up/back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over Rs. 5,000 (turn out/turn up/turn away)
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into arrears (set out/out set).
49. The younger son wasted his farther's wealth in a few years (ran over/ran through)
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from going (put away/put off)
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the questions set out below :-
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or at least
the definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers upon the institutions of City State, But in the long history of political

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
529
thought the meaning of such terms has been variously modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light of the
institutions by which the indicates were to be realized and of the society in which those institutions did their work. The Greek City States
was so different from the political communities in which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the imagination to  picture it
social and political life. The Greek Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from any that have prevailed commonly
in modern word, and the whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was different. Their problems though not without th eir
analogies in the preset, were never identical with modern problems and the ethical apparatus by which political life was evalua ted and
criticized varied widely from any that now prevails. In order to understand at all accurately what their theories meant it nece ssary first
to realize at least rougly what kind of Institutions they had in view and what citizenship connected as an effect and as an ide al, to the
public for whom they wrote. For this purpose the Government of Athens is especially important, partly because, it is the best k nown,
but chiefly because it was an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was exceedingly small both in area and in population. The numbers
were exceedingly uncertain but, a figure somewhat in excess of three hundred thousand would be approximately correct. Such an
agrrangement of a small territory denominated by a singhle City was typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer:-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought mainly because :-
(a) It was the most powerful of the Greek City- States :
(b) Its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks themselves ;
(c) It had the most ideal form of Government ;
(d) it is the best known of the Greak City - States ;
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems :-
(a) Entirely unrelated to,
(b) identical with,
(c) different from analogous but to,
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is :-
(a) very similar to modern  moral and religious ideas :-
(b) unknown ;
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.
54. It is:-
(a) easy,
(b) not at all easy,
(c) impossible,
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek City-State.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are:-
(a) very large,
(b) very small,
(c) about the same size.
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was:-
(a) much less than 300,000
(b) over 3 million,
(c)  just over 300,000

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
530
57. The City-State of Athens Comprises:-
(a) a small territory governed by a singly city,
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities,
(c) a small territory with village councils,
(d) a large territory with a decentralised administration.
58.  At different times in the history of the world people:-
(a) have thought in basically the same way,
(b) have thought in different ways,
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political thought:-
(a) because the Greek City States was very similar to modern states,
(b) in spite of Greek City State being very different from modern States,
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek Philiosophy.
60. The meaning of political ideal at the particular moment in European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined
only be:-
(a) relating it to its context,
(b) tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks,
(c) investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it,
(d) taking into account only those features in it which have persisted throughout its history.
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as to bring out its meaning clearly:-
       Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidates hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
Either
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an English speaking country, setting out the following
information in an orderly manner :-
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as the
examining authorities in Sri Lanka have not been consulted by the institution concerned in that country:-
(ii) The G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level):-
(iii) The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner of Examinations is acknowledged:
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained from the embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that
country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hour clock in this
country starting the advantages of such a measure.
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Architecture’s Service and Sri Lanka Scientific Service
(1) Subject No. 04
Syllabus:-
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part 1 (Except Chapter X)
(b) The Estimates of the Current Year e. g. - Their Arrangement the Heads of Revenue; The Finance and Appropriation Acts;
Note:- A Candidate will be required to obtain 40 percent of the total marks for a pass.
(2) Subject No. 05
Refer Subject No. 05 under the Sri Lanka Administrative Service EB1

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
531
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Official use only
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  –   SRI  LANKA
Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service,
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service, Sri Lanka Sciencetific Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Police
Service and Sri Lanka Architecture’s Service – 2008
The language medium in which officer will sit the examination : Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Town in which the officer intends to sit the examination : Colombo -1/Jaffna -2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(To be forwarded through the Head of the Department to the Commissioner General of Examinations by registered Post).
(The envelope should bear the name of the examination on the top left-hand corner).
01. ( a) Last name with initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(b) Last name with initials :————.
(In English block letters) Ex: Sunil, A. B.
02. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) :————.
(In English block letters)
03. Name of the Examination :————.
Note : vide 4B before completing this.
04. (i) The Service to which the officer belongs :————.
(ii) Date of appointment to that service : Date Month       Y ear
05. Subject offered (to be clearly stated) with the subject number as indicated in the first paragraph of the notification.
(i) Subject No.
(ii) Subject No.
(iii) Subject No.
(iv) Subject No.
(v) Subject No.
(vi) Subject No.
(vii) Subject No.
06. Date of Birth :
Date :————, Month :————, Year :————.
07. National Identity Card No.:

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
532
08. Designation  :————.
Name of Department  :————.
09. The service to which he belongs, if the officer is in Administrative Service, the date on which he was appointed to such
service :————.
10. If the Officer is not in the Administrative Service to which service he belongs  :————.
11. If the Officer is in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination (A)
(b) Second Efficiency Bar Examination (B)
(c) Second Language Examination (C)
12. If the Officer is not in the Administrative Service the examination for which he is applying :
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)
13. State whether you have sat this examination previously in whole or in part :————.
If so state subject and give year and month :
Examination Subject Year Month
I, declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language medium indicated at
Para. 4 above.
I, also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before cancellation by me. Further to that,
candidates should be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the
examination.
14. Fees paid Rs :
Cage of Stamps
—————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :————.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded -
I certify that the above mentioned candidates Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………………, who is eligible to sit for the examination
in the requested medium as, indicated in the paragraph 04.
I attest the candidate’s signature.
—————,
Signature of Head of the Department and Designation.
Date :————.
05-61

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
533
MINISTRY  OF  TRADE,  MARKETING  DEVELOPMENT,  CO-OPERATIVES  AND  CONSUMER  SERVICES
Department of Measurement Units, Standards and Services – 2008
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF INSPECTORS OF MEASUREMENT
SERVICES AND DEVICES IN THE DEPARTMENT OF MEASUREMENT UNITS STANDARDS AND SERVICES - 2008.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of Inspectors of Measurement Services and Devices of Technical Service Grade II B in the
Department of Measurement Units, Standards and Services. Applications prepared according to the specimen appended to this notification
should be sent by registered post to reach Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Palawatta, Battaramulla on or before 20.06.2008.
“Post of Inspectors of Measurement Services and Devices” should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application.
01. Conditions of employment :
(1) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions shall be made to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans Pension
Fund.
(2) The appointment will be on probation for a period of three years from the date of appointment.
(3) In accordance with the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007, proficiency in official language shall be acquired within
the specified period.
02. Salary and Allowances :
Training Grade :
1st Year - Rs. 12,920 monthly allowance;
2nd Year - Rs. 13,040 monthly allowance.
Salary Scale (monthly) applicable to the post (in terms of P.A. Circular No. 6/2006(iv)).
Inspectors of Measurement Services and Devices (MT2-2006-A)
14,570—10 x 170 — 11 x 180 — 6 x 240 — 14 x 320 — Rs. 24,170
1st efficiency bar should be completed before reaching 3rd salary step of the salary scale and 2nd efficiency bar shall be
complete before reaching the 3rd salary scale after been appointed to Grade II A.
03. Educational Qualifications :
Passed the G .C.E. Advance Level Examination in the three science subjects including Physics and Pure Mathematics/Applied
Mathematics from Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany, Agriculture in one
sitting;
or
Passed the G .C.E. Advance Level Examination in the three Science subjects including Physics and Higher Mathematics/
Combined Mathematics from Higher Mathematics, Combined Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Bio-Science, Agriculture in
one sitting;
and
Passed the G .C.E. Ordinary Level Examination in six science subjects in not more than two sittings with Credit passes in
Language or Literature, Mathematics, Science and one other subject.
04. Other Qualifications :
(1) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(2) Should be between 18 and 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications;
(The upper age limit will not apply to applicants who are in the Public Service);
(3) Should be physically sound and of good moral character.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
534
05. Method of recruitment :
The candidates who have fulfilled the above qualifications should pass an open competitive examination conducted by the
Department of examination. 40 marks or more should be obtained in each subject. Candidates who score the Highest marks
will be invited for an interview and qualifications will be examined. No marks will be given at the interview. Candidates who
have fulfilled the qualifications and scored the highest marks from the two subjects are admitted to training grade.
After successful completion of two years theoretical and practical training candidates are qualified to obtain "certificate of
competence" which is offered by Department Head and to appoint to class II B which is the recruitment class.
06. This examination will be conducted in the under mentioned towns. Candidates should select the closest town as their center
of examination. Candidate should select the town and town number from the following and fill the application accordingly.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulathive 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalama 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalla 23
Rathnapura 24
Kilinochchiya 25
07. Open Examination :
(i) The examination will be held in the language of Sinhala, Tamil and English. Every candidate should appear for the
examination in the mediums he has applied for. He will not be allowed to change the medium of examination under any
circumstance.
(ii) Examination will consist of two papers.-
(1) Intelligence Question Paper :
Time 03 hours. Total marks - 100. This paper consists of objective question so as to make an assessment of the
candidate on power of logical reasoning and ability to draw sound and inferences.
(2) Technological Question Paper :
Time 03 hours. Total marks - 100. This paper consists of objective question so as to make an assessment of
knowledge in measurement of physical qualities and physics practical up to G .C.E. (A/L).
08. The applicant should fill the application by his/her own hand writing according to the following format. Item No. 1 to 8 sha ll
be on the 1st page and remaining on the 2nd page. Applications which do not comply with the specimen application form and
which are not complete will be rejected without notification. It will be useful if you could retain copies of application form.
Applicants who prepare the application in Sinhala or Tamil should write the heading in English in addition to Sinhala/Tamil.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
535
09. Those who are already in the public service/provincial public service should forward their applications through head of the
respective institutions.
10. A paper advertisement will be published by the department of examination immediately after releasing the admission card to
the candidates. Candidates who are do not receive admission card even after 2 or 3 days of the paper advertisement should
inform the Department of Examination in accordance with paper advertisement. The following information should be sent to
the examination department. Certified copies of application and bank receipt, cash receipt and the register post receipt, a fax
number to fax the admission card, if candidate reside out of Colombo.
11. Examination fee is Rs. 300.00. This fee should be debited to Account Number "0000407320" in Thimbirigasyaya Branch,
Bank of Ceylon. The examination fee or apart of paid for the examination will not be refunded under any circumstances. It will
be useful to retain photocopies of the bank receipt and the receipt shall be affixed to the relevant cage of the application so
as to be undetachable.
12. A candidate will be required to prove his/her Identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor and for  this
purpose only the National Identity Card or Valid Pass Port will be accepted. Admission to the competitive examination does
not necessarily constitute acceptance of eligibility for the examination. All candidates are subjected to the rules made by
Commissioner of Examination. Candidates who violate rules and regulations are liable to punishment imposed by Commissioner
of examination.
Specimen Application Form
For office use only
Open competitive examination for Recruitment to the Posts of Inspectors of Measurement Services in the Department of
Measurement Units Standards and Services — 2008
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala–2, Tamil–3 and English–4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Town and the Town Number where you wish to sit the examination.
(as paragraph 06 of the Gazette Notification)
Town Town number
1. Name with  initials, in block letters : ————.
Ex : Nimal, A.B.
2. Name denoted by initials in block letters : ————.
3. Full name : ————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
4. Permanent address in English capital letters : (admission cards will be sent to this address) : ————.
5. Gender :
(Male-0, Female-1) Indicate the relevant number in the cage
6. Civil status :
(Unmarried -1, Married -2)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
7. Ethnic group :
(Sinhalese-1, Tamil-2, Indian Tamil-3, Muslim-4, Other- (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
536
8. National Identity Card Number :
9. ( a) Date of birth :
Y ear      Month     Date
(b) Age as at the closing date of application :
Years      Months     Days
10. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration :————.
(If by registration provide details)
11. Educational/Professional qualifications :
11.1 G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year passed : ————.
Index Number : ————.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
11.2 G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Year passed : ————.
Index No. : ————.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
11.3 Other Educational/Professional Qualification :
Subject Institute Date
1.
2.
3.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
537
12. Present employment and previous employments if any :
Post From To Annual salary
1.
2.
3.
13. Have you ever been dismissed from Government Service (if so provide details) : ————.
14. If you are a Government Officer, are there any disciplinary inquiries against you ? : ————.
15. Have you ever been convicted for any offence on Court of Law ?  : ————.
16. Names, Addresses and Telephone Numbers of two non-relative referees :
1.   ————. 2.    ————.
17. Any other information : ————.
18. Bank at which examination fees were paid : ————.
Receipt Number : ————.
Date : ————.
Please affix the Receipt of Bank so as to be untouchable
I hereby certify that the particular furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also fully aware that if a ny
information contained herein are found false or incorrect before selection, I am liable to be disqualified and to instant dismi ssal from
service without compensation if such discrepancy is detected after the appointment. I do hereby agree to abide all the rules an d
regulations imposed by Commissioner General of Examination.
————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date : ————.
Certificate of Head of Department if the applicants who are in the Public Service and the Provincial Public Service.
If he/she selected for the above post, he/she could be released/could not released from the present post.
————,
Signature of Head of Department/Institution.
(Official Seal)
Date : ————.
05-91

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
538
OPEN  COMPETIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  COMERCIAL
SUPERINTENDENT  —  RAILWAY  DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Commercial
Superitendent in the Railway Department.
02. Salary Scale.—The new salary scale attached to the post in
terms of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 is Rs. 36,755-
16x1050 - Rs. 53,555. (SL-1-2006).
03. Age Limit : Every applicant should not be less than 35 years
and not more than 45 years (the upper age limit will not apply in the
case of officers who are in the Government Service.)
04. Educational and other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a graduate of a recognised univercity. (Preferably
with a degree in Economics); or
An Associate Member of the Institute of Transport, London.
and
10 years experiance of having been responsibility in charge
of a Governtment or Commercial Establishment
and
knowledge of modern Transport service, working knowledge
in Company Law and Commecial Statistics, Ability in
organizing Methods to increase the revenue in railway
transport, (Knowledge of modern advertising system
Methods of Transpotation and Public relation, will be an
added Qualification).
or
(b) Government Officers who have 05 years service  in a staff
post and not less than 15 years service in the Railway
Department with a thorough knowledge of the Commercial
branch.
05. Method of Recruitment :
Selection of suitable candidate will be on the result of in
written examination in turns of the Public Administration Circular
No : 15/90 candidates who score highest marks in the written
examination will be called for a structural interview approved by the
Public Service Commission. Marks will be awarded for special
qualifications and the officers who score the highest marks will be
recommended for appointment.
This examination consists of two question papers. The duration
for each Question paper is three hours 100 marks will be awarded for
each Question paper. To be eligible 50 marks should be obtained on
each Question paper. Syllabus is as follows.
1. Question paper - Management and General Administration.
Basic Management principles, office administration, supplt.
matter, co-ordination principles, research & Techniques
adopted in the transport field, Marketing management
principles, Development, Distribution pricing new services
& Human Resourse Management.
2. Question paper - Basic principles of Transport & Accounts.
Rules relating to transport affairs, railway accounting system,
commercial rules applicable to transport field.
06. Terms of engagement :
The post is permanent and pensionable. The selected candidates
are required to contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ pension
Scheme.
07. Conditions of Service :
(a) Establishment Code Chapter 11 Sub Section 10 to 12 apply :
(b) For the purpose of implimenting official language policy of
the Governtment as per P . A. Circular No. 35/89 and in
accordance with the provision under Section 4 of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, any person recruited on any two official languages or
any other language medium should pass the prescribed
proficiency, test within  a period of three years. Also terms
of P. A. Circular No. : 7/2007 an officer who has been
appointed to a post on any one of the two languages is
requested to aquire proficiency in the other official language
within a period of five (5) years from the date of his
appointment.
(c) The recruited officer should acquire sufficent regulation (this
will be tested orally or in writing) within twelve months
from the date of appointment.
(i) Rules and Regulations relating to the operation of trains
and commercial work, Railway Departmental
Instructions (Administration) and Regulation,
Establishment code Rules and Financial regulations ;
(ii) Transport Rules and Regulations governing the operation
of Omnibus & Lorry Transport Service in the Island.
08. Mode of Application :
(i) Applications should conform to the specimen form given in
this notification ;
(ii) Applicants who are in Government/Co-operation and
Provincial Public Service should forwarded their applications
through the Heads of their Institutions. In forwarding such
application the Head of Department should certify that the
particulars given in the application are true and correct. They
must however inform direct to the Secretary, Ministry of
Transport at least on or before the closing date of the
application.
(iii) Duly prepared appication form should be sent under
registered cover to reach “Secretery, Ministry of Transport,
D. R. Wijewardana Mawatha, Colombo 10” on or before the
closing date of application on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing application should written “Application
for the competitive examination for recruitment to the post
of commercial Superintendent”
Date of acceptance of applications :
  Local Application 16.06.2008
  Oveseas Application 30.06.2008

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2008
539
(iv) Applications which do not conform to the Gazette
Notification or incomplete or received late will be rejected
without prior notice.
(v) Applications and connected documents should be sent to
the Secretary, Ministry of Transport and should not be
adderssed personally to any officer.
Note :
(i) No alligation that on application form or a letter connected
there to has been lost or delay in the post will not be
considered. Those condidates who delay their applications
until the last will do at their own risk.
(ii) Overseas candidates could obtain the printed application
form from the Sri Lanka Representative abroad. Applicants
may at their discretion hand over their application within
the prescribed time to the office of the Sri Lanka
Representative in the country of their residence or nearest
to the country for transmission to the Secretary, Ministry
of Transport.
(iii) Sri Lanka Officers recruited abroad for appointment under
the Government of  Sri Lanka will be required to present
themselves for examination before approved Medical
practitioners with a view to ascertaining whether they are
physically fit for service. The fee for each examination as
well as the cost of their passage shall be borne by the officers
themselves.
09. Reference is invited to the general conditions applicable to
appoinments to posts in the Public Service published in the begining
part I Section II (a) of the Gazette II.
10. Examination fee :
A non -refundable fee of Rs. 250 will be levied for the examination.
This amount can be paid by money order written in favour of General
Manager, Railways, indicating paying office as Maradana (01000)
and the money order should be attached to the application and no
photostat copy of same should be attached.
Secretary,
Ministry of Transport.
Ministry of Transport,
Colombo 10,
07th March, 2008.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
POST OF COMMERCIAL SUPERINTENDENT
DEPARTMENT OF RAILWAYS
01. Full Name :————.
02. Postal Address :————.
03. (i) Date of Birth :————.
(ii) Age as on Closing date of Application;
Years :————.  Months:————.  Days :————.
04. Nationality (Indicate Whether a Sri Lankan) :————.
05. Whether Married or Single :————.
06. Educational and Professional Qualifications and or Experience :
(Details of all degrees obtained, distinctions and professional
experiences gained with dates and if there is any class the
subjects offered-language medium and the names of relevant
institutes should be indicated)
07 Particulars of Employment since leaving school and or details
of Training followed (institutional period) and reasons for leaving
should be given.
08. Present Employment :————.
09. Names of Persons Issued Character Certificate :————.
10. Other Qualifications :————.
11. Applicant’s Certificate :————.
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application
are true and correct. I am also aware that of any particulars contained
herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification
before requition, and to dismissed without any compensation if the
inaccuracy is detected after the appointment I personally bear any
lones could therein. Money order No : ……………… obtained after
making payment of Rs. 250 is attached here to.
12. Employer’s Certificate :
I recommend and forward herewith the application of Mr.
……………… employee of this office. No disciplinary action is
pending against him. His work, conduct and attendance are
satisfactory/unsatisfactory. I certify that this applicant could/could
not be released from this institution, if recruited.
————.
Signature of Head of Department,
Designation.
(Official seal.)
12. Certificate of Signature :
I certify that the applicant Mr. ……………… has been known
to me very well and that he placed his signature before me.
————.
Signature of applicant.
Date :————.
Signature of person certifying.
Date :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
(Please use the official seal)
05-130
PRINTED A T THE DEPA TMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA