

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1443
1443
wxl 1"822 - 2013 wf.daia;= 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'08'02
No. 1,822 – FRIDAY AUGUST 02, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1446
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1446
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note.—  (i) Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)  Bill is published  as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of June 28, 2013.
(ii) Alhasan Foundation  (Incorporation)  Bill is published  as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of July 12, 2013.
(iii) Nadvathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur (Incorporation)  Bill is published  as a Supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of July 12, 2013.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 23rd August, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th
August, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part I:III of the Gazette No. 1,821 of 26.07.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1444
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1445
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
B3-B80750

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1446
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th July, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Ibbagamuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Hiriyala Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of 66 Kurunegala.
Korale
08–254
Posts – Vacant
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Grade III of Information Officers in the Associate Officer
Category (MN04-2006(A)) at the Department of Government Information – 2013
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified male/female candidates for recruitment to the post of Information Officer in the Associa te
Officer category (MN04 2006(A)) under the open stream at the Department of Government Information.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1447
02. Qualified candidates selected upon the rank obtained in a written examination, which will be held by the Director General
of Government Information or by an institution on behalf of the Director General of Government Information would be appointed t o
following vacancies :
Amount of Vacancies
District Media Unit Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium
Nuwara Eliya 01
Galle 01
Matara 01
Hambantota 01
Jaffna 02
Vavuniya 01
Batticaloa 01
Ampara 01
Trincomalee 01 01
Anuradhapura 01 01
Badulla 01
03. Educational and Professional Qualifications :–
Serial No. Post Educational Qualifications
01 Information Officer Grade III A Degree obtained from a University recognized by the
University Grant Commission
04. Physical Qualifications. – Each candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to
discharge duties of the post.
05. Other Qualifications :–
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) Should have obtained all qualifications mentioned above that require to be appointed to the post.
All qualifications should be duly completed before the date mentioned in the vacancy notice/ gazette.
06. Age.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age on the deadline.
07. Written Examination.– This examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil mediums by the Director General of Government
Information or by an institution on behalf of the Director General of Government Information in Colombo.
Subject Syllabus Time Total Pass
Marks Marks
01 Intelligence Test Consist of questions to asses the logical thinking, 01 100 40
analytical thinking and decision-making ability of the hour
candidate
02 Subject 1. Question paper will be prepared to evaluate the language 02 100 40
Knowledge  on Mass competence. The ability of translating from English to Sinhala/ hours
Media Tamil and vice versa will be evaluated in order to check the
competence on Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
2. Technical knowledge in organizing and conducting Press
Conferences.
3. Testing the knowledge on identifying information sources
and on facts that should be included in the News.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1448
Time Total Pass
Subject Syllabus Marks Marks
4. Testing the knowledge on techniques of editing certain news
to be suitable to publish in electronic or print media.
5. Testing the ability of utilizing information technology for
collecting information, preparing news and publish them
on various media.
08.  Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,215 - 10 x 215 - 4 x 240 - 7 x 320 - 15 x 360 - Rs. 25,965. MN-4 2006(A) (According to P . A. Circular
No. 06/2006(iv)).
09. Conditions of the Service :–
* Recruited officers must agree to serve in any part of the Island.
* This post in permanent and pensionable.
* Appointees must contribute to the Widows and Orphans Fund.
* Appointees shoudl continuously serve at least 05 years in the initially appointed District Media Unit. Within that
period, transfers will not be considered due to any reason.
10. Applications should be prepared according to the specimen form of Application given at the end of this notice using both
sides of an A4 sheet by including No. 1 to 5 in the first page and rest in second and third pages. Application should be prepar ed in the
respected medium, which the candidate is expecting to sit for the examination. Applications that do not comply with directions of this
notice will be rejected.
11. Reception of applications will not be informed to the candidate. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
12. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination and will be informed to the address stated in the application before two
weeks of the examination.
(i) Complaints on misplacements or delays in the post are not entertained.
(ii) Complaints regarding applications sent to other addresses apart from the address mentioned below will not be entertained.
(iii) Candidates who are already in the public service should apply through their respective heads of institutions. The Head
of the institution should certify that the candidate would be released from his existign post after being selected.
(iv) It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application. Photocopies of applications or advance copies will not be
accepted.
(v) Sending an Admission Card does not mean that, the canidates has been considered as fulfilled his qualifications.
If a candidate does not receive the admission card prior to 07 days to the date of examination, inform to "Director General of
Government Information, Department of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05" with following details.
(Telephone/Tax - 011-2514092).
* Letter of application,
* Name of the Examination,
* Full name of candidate,
* National Identity Card Number,
* Postal address of the candidate,
* Photocopy of the application,
* Post office, registration number and the date which the application was posted,
* Photocopy of the receipt which examination fees has been paid,
* Fax number of the candidate, which the Admission Card is to be sent.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1449
13. Method of application :
(a) Applications prepared according to the following specimen should be sent by registered post to reach "Director General
of Government Information, Department of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05"
before 30.08.2013, Cite, "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the post of Information Officer" on the top
left hand corner of the envelope, in which the application form is enclosed.
(b) Closing date for sending applications is 30.08.2013.
(c) Each candidate should pay an examination fee of Rs. 500 by a Money Order addressed to Director General of Government
Information, Department of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05, payable at the General
Post Office, Colombo. Examination fees will not be refunded under any circumstances.
14. Attestation of Signature.– The candidate's signature should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service/Sri Lanka Accountant's Service/a Principal of a government school/Justice of the Pea ce/
Attorney at Law/a Government Officer receiving an annual consolidated basic salary of Rs. 240,360.
* Candidate should certify that questionnaire of the application is duly filled in and all particulars are given correct.
* Certified copies of relevant certificates should be attached.
* Every officer recruited accordingly shall be subject to general conditions governing public officers, the Establishments
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies enacted by the Department of Government Information,
Financial Regulations, other Government Regulations and orders made by the government from time to time.
* The Director General of Government Information has the inclusive authority of filling all or a decided quantity of
vacancies.
* Decision of the Director General of Government Information is the final decision on any matter not covered by the
general circular and on any doubtful matter regarding recruitment to these post. In case of any inconsistency among the
Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of the gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Prof. A
RIYARATNA ATHUGALA,
Director General of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
02nd August, 2013.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO THE GRADE III OF INFORMATION
OFFICERS  IN  THE ASSOCIATE OFFICER  CATEGORY (MN 04 2006(A))  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION – 2013
District Applying for :
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 01
Tamil - 02
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Name with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters E. g.– Mr./Mrs./Miss SILVA A. B.)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1450
02. 2.1 Address (Personal) :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.2 Address (Personal) :––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at 30.08.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Gender :––––––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. O/L Examination :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(b) G. C. E. A/L Examination :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
Degree University Y ear Subjects
(c) Degree :––––––––––––.
(d) Other Qualifications and Experience :––––––––––––.
07. Particulars of the receipt, which the examination fee is paid :
(i) The office to which the examination fee is paid :––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1451
(iii) Paid amount :
Paste the receipt here as not to be detached. Rs. 500.
08. Certification of the applicant :
I declare that the information given herein are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am also aware if I have
provided any false information, my candidature will be cancelled before or after the examination and if so found after selection I am liable
to be dismissed from the service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
09. Attestation of the signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................... is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her si gnature in my
presence on .............................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting.
Name in full :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
08–253

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1452
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “ Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” are booked per periods of not less than
12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2013
1453
IMPORTANT   NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2013
AUGUST 02.08.2013 Friday — 19.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2013 Thursday –– 26.07.2013 Friday 12 noon
16.08.2013 Friday –– 02.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
23.08.2013 Friday –– 08.08.2013 Thursday 12 noon
30.08.2013 Friday –– 16.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 06.09.2013 Friday — 23.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
13.09.2013 Friday –– 30.08.2013 Friday 12 noon
20.09.2013 Friday –– 06.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
27.09.2013 Friday –– 13.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 04.10.2013 Friday — 20.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
11.10.2013 Friday –– 27.09.2013 Friday 12 noon
17.10.2013 Thursday –– 04.10.2013 Friday 12 noon
25.10.2013 Friday –– 11.10.2013 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2013.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.