

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price :  Rs. 17.00  Postage  :  Rs. 20.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist  Republic  of  Sri Lanka of August 31, 2017.
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 31st of August,  2017]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 16 OF 2017

<!-- page 2 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
1
[Certified on 31st of August, 2017]
L.D.—O. 35/2015
AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS
ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 262)
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities
Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017.
2. Section 3 C of the Local Authorities Elections
Ordinance (Chapter 262) (hereinafter referred to as the
“principal enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (2)
of that section by the omission of the words, “alphabetical
letter in English” and “or the alphabetical letter”, appearing
in that section.
3. Section 3 D of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words, “new boundaries, names, numbers or letters of
each ward” of the words, “new boundaries, names and
numbers of each ward”.
4. Section 9 of the principal enactment is amended in
subsection (1) by the addition of the following new sub-
paragraph after sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (d):—
“(iva) a public officer who is engaged in field based
activities who has not ceased to serve within a
Local Authority area in which he seeks
nomination at least one year prior to the election
to such Local Authority.
For  the purpose of this subparagraph “a public
officer who is engaged in field based activities”
Short  title.
Amendment of
section 3 C of
chapter 262.
Amendment of
section 3 D of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.
2—H 050110—500  (09/2017)

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
shall include any person who is engaged in any
development, welfare, economic, social, health
or such other activities within the scope of his
employment.”.
5. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in paragraph (ii) of the last proviso to subsection
(1) of that section, by the substitution for the words,
“by a name and an alphabetical letter in English.”,
of the words, “by a name and a number.”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section –
(a) by the substitution for the words, “polling
districts” and “Polling district” wherever
those words appear in that subsection, of
the words, respectively as “polling districts”
and “polling district”; and
(b) by the substitution in paragraph ( c) for the
word, “district”, of the words, “polling
district”;
(3) by the substitution in subsection (2A) of that
section, for the words, “each polling district” of the
words, “each polling district”; and
(4) by the substitution in subsection (2B) of that
section, for the words, “division of a polling area
into polling districts” of the words, “division of a
polling area into polling districts”.
6. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words, “which the
approved symbols shall be allotted and in respect of a local
authority area.” of the words, “which the approved symbols
and where there are more than one independent group, a
distinguishing number shall be allotted.”.
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 26 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
3
7. Section 27 F of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:—
27F. (1) Notwithstanding any provision to
the contrary in this Ordinance, not less than
twenty five per centum of the total number of
members in each local authority shall be women
members:
provided that, where the number
constituting twenty five per centum of the total
number of members in a local authority in an
integer and fraction, the integer shall be
deemed to be the number which shall
constitute twenty five per centum  for the
purpose of this section.
(2) The Commissioner of Elections shall by
notice published in the gazette , specify the
number of women candidates to be nominated
in respect of each local authority.”.
8. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the substitution in subsection (1) of that section,
for the words, “Any person who is qualified under
section 8 of this Ordinance” of the words, “Any
person who is qualified under section 8 of this
Ordinance”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the repeal of the
words commencing from “Any recognized political
party” and ending with the words “setting out the
names:–”, and the substitution therefor of the
following:—
“Any recognized political party or independent
group shall, for the purpose of election as members
Replacement of
section 27
F of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 28 of the
principal
enactment.
“Total
number of
women
members.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
of any local authority, submit two nomination
papers in respect of all wards of such local authority.
The nomination papers submitted by every
recognized political party or independent group in
respect of all wards of any local authority shall
consist of the number of candidates of whom not
less than ten per centum  of the total number of
members to be elected and returned in the first
nomination paper, and not less than fifty per centum
of the total number of candidates in the additional
nomination paper shall be women candidates for
the purpose of election as members of such local
authority, substantially in the Forms set out in the
First Schedule, setting out the names–”;
(3) by the repeal of paragraph ( a) of subsection (2) and
the substitution therefor of the following:—
“(a) of candidates being nominated in respect
of each ward of that local authority which
number shall be equivalent to sixty per
centum of the total number of members of
that local authority:
Provided that where the number
constituting sixty per centum referred to in
this paragraph is an integer and fraction, the
integer shall be deemed to be the number
which shall constitute sixty per centum, for
the purpose of this paragraph.”;
(4) in paragraph ( b) of subsection (2) by the repeal of
the words starting from “persons as is equivalent to
thirty per centum of the total number of persons”
and ending with the words “shall be appointed:”,
of the words “persons to be nominated as candidates
to be retuned as is equivalent to forty per centum of
the total number of members of the local authority
plus three additional persons:”;

<!-- page 6 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
5
(5) in the proviso to paragraph ( b) of subsection (2) by
the substitution for the words “thirty per centum”
of the words “forty per centum”
(6) by the repeal of subsection (2 A) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following:—
“(2A) The Commissioner shall by notice
published in the gazette , specify the minimum
number of women candidates as specified in
subsection (2) to be nominated in the First
Nomination Paper and the Additional Nomination
Paper in respect of all wards of each Local
Authority.Where the total number of women
candidates to be nominated is such that not less
than ten per centum of the total number of members
to be elected and  returned in the First Nomination
Paper and not less than fifty per centum  of the
number of candidates in the Additional Nomination
Paper would be an integer and fraction, the integer
shall be deemed to be the number required for the
purposes of this section.”;
(7) in subsection (2B) of that section, by deleting the
words, “The nomination paper shall be prepared in
duplicate, with the word “copy” being written
clearly on the duplicate copy.”;
(8) in subsection (2D) of that section by the substitution
for the words, “twenty five per centum of the total
number of candidates and additional persons whose
names appear in each nomination paper submitted
under subsection (2) of this section, may consist of
women and youth.” of the words, “not less than
thirty per centum of the total number of candidates
and additional persons whose names appear in each
nomination paper submitted under subsection (2)
of this section, may consist of youth.”; and

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
(9) by the substitution in the subsection (2E) of that
section-
(a) for the words, “twenty-five per centum ”
wherever those words appear in that
subsection, of the words, “thirty per centum”;
and
(b) for the words and figure, “subsection (2B) is
an integer”, of the words and figure,
“subsection (2D) is an integer”.
9. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:-
(1) by the substitution in paragraph ( a) of that
subsection, for the words, “and in any case not later
than twelve noon on the day immediately preceding
the end of the nomination period, deposit”, of the
words, “(and in any case not later than twelve noon
on the day immediately preceding the end of the
nomination period), deposit”;
(2) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph
(a) of that subsection, for the words, “five thousand
rupees in respect of each candidate”, of the words,
“one thousand five hundred rupees in respect of
each candidate”;
(3) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) of
paragraph ( a) of that subsection, for the words,
“twenty thousand rupees in respect of each
candidate”, of the words, “five thousand rupees in
respect of each candidate”; and
Amendment of
section 29 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
7
(4) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph
(b) of that subsection, for the words, “leader of the
independent group” of the words, “leader of the
independent group or his authorized agent.”.
10. Section 30 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (4) of that section, as follows:—
(1) by the substitution for the words, “in the ward”, of
the words, “in the ward”; and
(2) by the substitution in the proviso to that subsection
for the words, “in such local authority area” of the
words, “in such local authority area”.
11. Section 31 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in paragraph ( e) of subsection (1) by the substitution
for the words “subsection (5) of section 28.” of the
words “subsection (5) of section 28; or”;
(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph ( e)
of that subsection of the following new
paragraph:—
“(f) that does not contain the total number of
women candidates as required to be
nominated under subsection (2A) of
section 28 of this Ordinance.”.
12. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph ( b) of subsection (1) thereof by the
substitution for the words “a single list containing the
names”, of the words, “the nomination papers containing
the names”.
Amendment of
section 30 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 38 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 31 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
 13. Section 39 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal of
the words, “or person whose name appears in the second
place in the nomination paper submitted by such recognized
political party or independent group.”.
14. Section 39
A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words, “in the electoral list of any ward of
that area” of the words, “in the electoral list of any
ward of that area”;
(2) by the repeal of the paragraph ( c) of subsection (1)
of that section and the substitution therefor of the
following paragraph:-
“(c) the name and the number of the ward;”.
15. Section 40 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph ( a) of subsection (1) of that section,
by the substitution for the words, “polling district;”, of the
words, “polling district;”.
16. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, by the substitution for the words, “any ward” and
“for that ward” of the words, “any ward” and “for the ward”,
respectively.
17. Section 44 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitution
for the words, “for that ward”, of the words, “for that ward”.
18. Section 45 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph ( b) of subsection (1) of that section,
by the substitution for the words, “in alphabetical order in
Sinhala and the approved symbol allotted to each such party
or group.” of the words, “the approved symbol allotted to
Amendment of
section 39 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 43 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 44 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 45 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 40 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 39
A of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 10 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
9
each such party or group and where there are more than one
independent group the distinguishing number allotted to
each such group as indicated in the nomination paper”.
19. Section 47 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph ( a) of that section, and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-
“(a) shall contain the names of the recognized political
parties contesting at the election, in Sinhala, Tamil
and English arranged in the Sinhala alphabetical
order and with the symbol allotted to each such
party set out against the name of each such party,
and immediately thereafter, if there are any
independent groups contesting at such election,
the words, “Independent Group” repeated for each
such group and the distinguishing number in the
serial order and the symbol allotted to each such
group set out against the distinguishing number of
such group and a blank cage against each symbol
for a voter to cast his vote. A voter shall cast his
vote within the cage provided therefor.”.
20. Section 59
A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words, “The counting of votes in each
polling station shall take place” of the words
“Where there are more than one polling stations for
counting votes, in each division, the counting of
votes in each such polling station shall take place
as decided by the relevant returning officer.”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “function as the counting staff.” of
the words, “function as the counting staff. However,
Amendment of
section 47 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 59
A of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
where the returning officer is of the opinion that
the counting staff or an officer of such staff of that
station is incapable of performing the duties
entrusted to such staff or such officer, or is not
suitable for the performance of the duties as a
counting staff or as an officer of such staff, the
returning officer may, appoint another counting staff
in place of such counting staff or another officer in
the place of such officer of that staff, as the case
may be.”; and
(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the repeal of all
the words from, “the Commissioner of Elections”
to the end of that subsection, and substitution
therefor of the following:-
“or if the returning officer is of the opinion that
the counting officer appointed to any polling station
is incapable of performing the duties entrusted to
him or is not suitable for the performance of the
duties as a counting officer, the returning officer
may appoint any other senior presiding officer or
an assistant returning officer as a counting officer
in place of the first mentioned officer.”.
21. Section 59
B of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the substitution, in subsection (1) of that section,
for the words, “he shall inform the assistant
returning officer appointed by the returning officer
to supervise the polling in the ward in which such
polling station is situated, of such fact and such
assistant returning officer shall”, of the words, “he
shall inform the returning officer through the
assistant returning officer who supervises the
polling in the ward in which such polling station is
situated, of such fact and such returning officer
shall”;
Amendment of
section 59
B of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 12 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
11
(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,
for the words, “shall be notified by the assistant
returning officer, to the counting agents”, of the
words, “shall be notified by the assistant returning
officer to the returning officer and thereafter to the
counting agents”; and
(3) by the substitution, in subsection (3) of that section,
for the words, “The counting of votes at the new
venue as determined by the assistant returning
officer”, of the words, “After the returning officer
being notified of the new venue, the counting of
votes at the new venue as determined by the
supervising assistant returning officer”.
22. Section 61 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, in subsection (3) of that section,
for the word, “ward”, of the word, “ward”.
23. Section 64 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that section,
for the words, “the ward”, of the words, “the ward”.
24. Section 65 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, in subsection (1) of that section,
for the words and figure, “referred to in section 64,” of the
words and figure, “referred to in section 64 and the declaration
under regulation 28( c) of the Ninth Schedule hereto,”.
25. Section 65AA  is hereby repealed and the following
section is substituted therefor:—
65AA. (1) Where the number of members
elected from any recognized political party or
independent group for a Local Authority
results in an overhang and thereby exceeds the
number ascertained to be elected and returned
as members under sub section (3) of section
Amendment of
section 61 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 64 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 65 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 65
AA of
the principal
enactment.
“Apportionment
of women
members.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
65(3), and such number of members so elected
do not include any women members, then the
provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section shall not apply to such recognized
political party or  independent group.
(2) Where any recognized political party or
independent group has received less than
twenty per centum of the total number of votes
polled in a local authority area, and has less
than three members elected or returned, then
the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section shall not apply to such recognized
political party or  independent group.
(3) The apportionment of women members
to be elected and returned to each local
authority from the recognized political parties
and independent groups other than the political
parties and the independent groups referred to
in subsection (2) of this section, shall be
determined by the Commissioner of Elections,
taking into consideration the number of valid
votes polled by the other recognized political
parties and independent groups in all wards of
such local authority, and the method of
apportionment set out in Article 99A of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka shall mutatis mutandis
apply thereto.
(4) Where the number of women members
elected for all wards of any local authority area
from any recognized political party or
independent group other than the recognized
political party or independent group referred
to in subsection (1) or (2) of this section, is less
than the number apportioned in terms of
subsection (3) of this section, then the shortfall

<!-- page 14 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
13
in the number of members shall be returned
from among the women candidates in the first
nomination paper or the additional nomination
paper other than the women candidates who
have been elected or are disqualified to be a
member under section 9.”.
26. Section 65 B of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5)
and substitution therefor of the following
subsection:—
“(2) The total number of valid votes received
by all the candidates of each recognized political
party and independent group in a local authority
area shall be divided by the total number of
members to be elected and returned to the Local
Authority Area. The number resulting from such
division (any fraction not being taken into
account) shall hereinafter in this section be
referred to as “the qualifying number”;
(2) (i) by the renumbering of subsection (6) as
subsection (3);
(ii) in the renumbered subsection (3) by the
substitution for the words “the balance
candidates of each recognized political
party and independent group, shall then
be divided by the qualifying number, in
order to ascertain the number of persons
entitled to be returned as members of that
local authority in terms of subsection (1)
by such recognized political party or
independent group, as the case may be.”,
of the words “the candidates of each
recognized political party and independent
group in the respective local authority area
Amendment of
section 65
B of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
shall then be divided by the qualifying
number, in order to ascertain the number of
persons entitled to be elected and returned
as members of that local authority.”;
(3) by the insertion of the following sub section after
sub section (3):—
“(4) Upon ascertaining the number of candidates
entitled to be elected and returned as members
of that local authority by each recognized
political party or independent group, as the
case may be, in terms of subsection (3), if it is
found that the number of members elected
from such recognized political party or
independent group for that local authority—
(a) exceeds the number ascertained to be
elected and returned as members under
subsection (3), then such overhang shall
be determined by the Commissioner of
Elections; or
(b) falls short of the number ascertained to
be elected and returned as members
under subsection (3), then such
additional number of members, shall be
returned by the respective secretary of
the recognized political party or leader
of the independent group from the
candidates of the First Nomination
Paper or the Additional Nomination
Paper other than the candidates who
have been elected or are not disqualified
to be a member under section 9.”;

<!-- page 16 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
15
(4) (i) by the renumbering of subsection (7) as
subsection (5) of that section;
(ii) in the renumbered subsection (5)—
(a) by the substitution for the words and
figure “specified in subsection (5)”,
of the words and figure “specified in
subsection (3)”;
(b) by the substitution for the words and
figure “determined under subsection
(3)”, of the words and figure
“determined under subsection (4)”;
(c) by the substitution for the words and
figure “ascertained under subsection
(6)”, of the words and figure
“ascertained under subsection (3)”;
(5) (i) by the renumbering of subsections (8) and
(9) respectively as subsections (6) and (7) of
that section;
(ii) in the renumbered subsection (6) by the
substitution for the words and figure “to return
a member as ascertained under subsection (5),
of the number of members that such
recognized political party or independent
group, as the case may be, is entitled to return
and request such secretary or leader, as the
case may be, to nominate from among the
persons, whose names were included in the
nomination paper” of the following:—
“to return such number of members as
ascertained under subsection (3) of this
section and subsection (3) of section 65
AA, of
the number of members including women
members that such recognized political party

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
or independent group, as the case may be, is
entitled to be elected and returned from the
candidates of the First Nomination Paper or
the Additional Nomination Paper other than
the candidates who have been elected or are
not disqualified to be a member under
section 9.”;
(6) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section
and the substitution therefor of the following:—
“Candidates entitled to be elected or returned.”.
27. Section 66
A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended—
(a) in paragraph ( a) of subsection (1) by the substitution
for the words “any other person who is qualified
under section 8 of this Ordinance to be elected”, of
the words “any other candidate of the First
Nomination Paper or the Additional Nomination
Paper other than the candidates who have been
elected or are not disqualified to be a member under
section 9;”;
(b) in paragraph ( b) of subsection (1)—
(i) by the substitution for the words “a person to
fill such vacancy from among those persons
nominated by such recognized political party
or independent group under”, of the words “a
candidate to fill such vacancy from candidates
of the First Nomination Paper or the
Additional Nomination Paper other than the
candidates who have been elected or are not
disqualified to be a member under section 9
in terms of; and
(ii) by the substitution for the words, “Municipal
Councils Ordinance (Chapter 252) or
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 5 of
the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter
255)”, of the words, “Municipal Councils
Amendment of
section 66 A of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 18 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
17
Ordinance (Chapter 252) or paragraph ( b) of
subsection (1) of section 5 of the Urban
Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255)”; and
(iii) by the repeal of the words starting from “as
the case may be, and where no person remains
to be so nominated” to the words “Ordinance
to fill such vacancy.” and the substitution
therefor of the following:—
“as the case may be:
Provided that, where a vacancy occurs in
the case of a woman member of a Local
Authority, then such vacancy shall be filled
only by the nomination of a woman candidate
form the First Nomination Paper or the
Additional Nomination Paper other than the
women candidates who have been elected or
are not disqualified to be a member under
section 9.”;
(c) by the repeal of paragraph ( c) of subsection (1) of
that section;
(d) by the insertion immediately after paragraph ( b) of
subsection (1) of that section of the following
subsection:—
“(1
A) Where no person remains to be nominated to
fill a vacancy referred to in subsection (1)
from the candidates of the First Nomination
Paper and the Additional Nomination Paper,
the returning officer appointed for the
electoral area in which such Local Authority
is situated shall request within thirty days of
the occurrence of the vacancy, the secretary
to the recognized political party or the leader
of the independent group to which the member
whose vacancy occurred belonged, to
nominate within thirty days from such request,
any other person who is qualified under
section 8 of this Ordinance to fill that vacancy
in the ward in which the vacancy has
occurred:

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
Provided that, where a vacancy occurs in
the case of a woman member of a local
authority, then such vacancy shall be filled
only by the nomination of any other woman
who is qualified under section 8 of this
ordinance.”.
28. Section 66
B of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that
section–
(a) for the words, “falls vacant during the term of
office of such local authority, the
Commissioner shall,”, of the words, “falls
vacant during the term of office of such local
authority, the Commissioner of Local
Government shall inform such fact to the
returning officer in writing and the returning
officer shall,”; and
(b) for the words, “within thirty days, to the
Commissioner. Upon receipt of such
determination, the Commissioner shall” of the
words, “within thirty days to the returning
officer. Upon receipt of such determination,
the returning officer shall”;
(2) by the substitution, in subsection (3) of that section
for the words, “the Commissioner shall proceed to
appoint as the new Mayor” of the words, “the
returning officer shall proceed to appoint as the
new Mayor”; and
(3) by the substitution, in subsection (4) of that section,
for the words, “such vacancy is filled in accordance
with the procedure specified in that subsection, and
the member so appointed to fill such vacancy
himself resigns thereafter from his office as Mayor
under the sections referred to above, the vacancy
so created shall not be filled following the procedure
specified in subsection (2) of this section.” of the
Amendment of
section 66 B of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 20 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
19
words, “such vacancy in the office of Mayor is filled
in terms of the procedure specified in this
Ordinance, and the member so appointed to fill such
vacancy himself resigns from his office, the vacancy
so created thereafter shall not be filled in terms of
the procedure specified in this Ordinance.”.
29. Section 72
A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, in paragraph ( b) of subsection
(1) of that section, for the word, “opening”, of the word,
“commencing”.
30. Section 81
B of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (1A) of
that section and the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:-
“(a) (i) no appointments in any public institution
which may have the effect of influencing the
voters to vote in favour of any recognized
political party or any independent group shall
be made;
(ii) notwithstanding anything in subparagraph (i)
above an appointment in such institution may
be made for the purpose of carrying out
essential services as are urgent, the
postponement of which will affect the normal
life of the public or cause severe hazards or
harm to the public; and”.
31. Section 89 of the principal enactment as last
amended by  Act, No. 22 of 2012, is hereby further amended
as follows:-
(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “approved symbol” of the following
definition:-
“ “authorized agent” means in relation to a
recognized political party or independent
group as the case may be, a person expressly
authorized in writing by the Secretary of that
Amendment of
section 72 A of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 81
B of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 89 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
recognized political party or the group leader
of that independent group, to be the
authorized agent of that recognized political
party or that independent group as the case
may be and whose authorization has been
communicated by such Secretary or such
group leader to the returning officer for the
electoral area, in respect of which the
election is being held, at least seventy two
hours before the commencement of the
nomination period;”.
(2) by the insertion immediately after the definion of
expression “Municipality” of the following
definition:—
“ “overhang” means the number of candidates
elected for a local authority from any
recognized political party or independent
group in excess of the number of such
recognized political party or independent
group is entitled to have elected in terms of
subsection (3) of section 65
B of this
Ordinance;”.
(3) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
expression “Parliamentary register for the time being
in operation” of the following definitions:-
“public corporation” means any corporation,
board or other body which was or is
established by or under any written law other
than the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, with
funds or capital wholly or partly provided by
the Government by way of grant loan or
otherwise;
“Public Institution” includes a Ministry, a
government department, a public corporation,
any institution established by a Provincial
Council or by a statute of a Provincial
Council, a local authority, any business or

<!-- page 22 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
21
other undertaking vested in the government
and a Company registered or deemed to be
registered under the  Companies Act, No. 7 of
2007, in which the Government, a public
corporation or any local authority holds more
than fifty per centum of the shares;”.
32. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby repealed and the following Schedule is substituted
therefor:-
“FIRST SCHEDULE [Section 28(2)]
I- FIRST NOMINATION PAPER
…………………………………………. Municipal Council/Urban
Council/Pradeshiya Sabha.
The …………………………………….. party being a recognized
political party/independent group of candidates of which (in case of
an independent group ……………………………… is the group
leader), hereby nominates the following persons as candidates for
election of members of the …………………………………. Municipal
Council/Urban Council/Pradeshiya Sabha.
Replacement of
the First
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.
Name
and the
No. of
the
ward
“*”
Name -
men/
women
(as
indicated
in the
National
Identity
card or
birth
certificate)
National Identity card No. Residential
Address
Signature
signifying
consent
of the
candidate
1
1- CANDIDATES
Occupation Whether a
Youth
candidate
or not (Y)
2 3 45 6 7
Male/
Female
8

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
I do hereby certify that all the youth candidates whose names
appear in this nomination paper are within the age stipulated in section
89 of the Ordinance.
Signature of secretary of recognized political party/leader of the
independent group :
Name : …………………………………………..
Address : ………………………………………..
Official seal :
Signed by the above named ………………… secretary of
recognized political party/leader of independent group in my presence
at …………………………… on this ……………………………. day
of ………………… 20…..
……………………………………………
(Justice of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths)
Official seal
Address : ………………………………………..
* State in the case of a multi-member ward by the inclusion of one
asterisk (*) and the names of two candidates in the relevant cage in
the case of election of two members and in the case of election of
three members by the inclusion of two asterisks (**) and the names of
such three candidates.
Name - men/
women (as
indicated in
the National
Identity card
or birth
certificate)
National Identity card
No.
Residential
Address
Signature
signifying
consent of
the
additional
candidate
1
II- ADDITIONAL NOMINATION PAPER
Occupation Whether
a Youth
candidate
or not
(Y)
2 3 45 6
7
Male/
Female

<!-- page 24 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
23
33. The Ninth Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended as follows:-
(1) in regulation 17 of that Schedule by the substitution
for the words, “before the close of the poll” of the
words, “seventy two hours before the
commencement of the poll”;
(2) by the substitution for the regulation 18 of that
Schedule of the following regulation:-
18. The returning officer shall, any
time after placing the unopened
covering envelopes in to the postal
voters ballot box and before the
commencement of the poll, open the
postal voters ballot boxes and separate
the covering envelopes contained
therein, in respect of each ward. Once
the covering envelopes are separated,
the returning officer shall put all the
covering envelopes in respect of each
ward in a separate envelope for such
ward and seal and submit it to the
counting officer appointed for the
relevant ward on the day before the date
of poll along with ballot papers and
other articles.”;
(3) by the substitution for regulation 19 of that
Schedule of the following regulation:-
19. The returning officer shall,
immediately before the commencement
of counting of the ballot papers, cause
the counting officer appointed  for a
ward to open the relevant covering
envelopes containing postal ballot
papers for such ward and proceed to
count them.”;
Amendment of
the Ninth
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.
“The
covering
envelopes
containing
postal ballot
papers to be
separated
according to
wards.
“Counting
of postal
ballot
papers.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
(4) by the repeal of regulations 20, 21, 22, 23 and
paragraph (1) of regulation 24 of that Schedule;
(5) by the repeal of paragraph ( c) of regulation 28 of
that Schedule and the substitution therefor of the
following paragraph:-
“(c) written declaration of the votes given to each
candidate;”;
(6) in form A of that Schedule –
(a) by the substitution for  the words, “the polling
division, the polling district” of the words,
“the polling district, name  and the No. of the
ward”;
(b) by the substitution for the words, “Polling
division letter”  of the words, “Polling District
No. :”; and
(c) by the substitution for the words, “Polling
District  No.” of the words “Name and the No.
of the ward:”.
34. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 26 -->

Local Authorities Elections
 (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
25
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .