

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
THE REHABILITATION OF BUDDHIST
TEMPLES FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 17 OF 2014
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 24th April, 2014]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 25, 2014

<!-- page 2 -->

1The Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014
Short title.
Preamble.
[Certified on 24th April, 2014]
L.D.—O.(Inc.) 15/2010.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE REHABILITATION OF BUDDHIST
TEMPLES FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the
“Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples Foundation” has
heretofore been formed for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected with
the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several
objects and matters for which it was formed and has applied
to be incorporated and it is expedient to grant such
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Rehabilitation
of Buddhist Temples Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 17 of 2014.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of “The
Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as “the foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession under the name and style of “The Rehabilitation
of Buddhist Temples Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued
with full power and authority to have, and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation of
The
Rehabilitation of
Buddhist
Temples
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

The Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014
2
3. The objects for which the Corporation is constituted
are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to provide financial and other assistance to
Buddhist Temples faced with financial difficulties
to improve the infrastructure of such Buddhist
temples and  buildings situated within the premises
which are owned by such temples and which require
rehabilitation;
(b) to take necessary measures for the fostering of
spiritual values amongst the Buddhists in the area
by encouraging involvement in national and
religous customs and promotion of the Buddhist
way of life; and
(c) to work in collaboration with any other institution
having objects similar to those of the
Corporation with a view to facilitating the
exchange of ideas and experience.
4. (1) The management and administration of the affairs
of the Corporation, shall subject to the provisions of this
Act and rules of the Corporation made under section 6, be
administered by a Committee of Management (hereinafter
referred to as the “Committee”) consisting of a President,
Secretary, Treasurer and such number of other members as
are elected or appointed in accordance with the rules made
under section 6.
(2) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consist
of the members of the Committee of the Foundation holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act and shall continue to hold office
until a new Committee is appointed in accordance with the
rules made under section 6.
(3) No act or proceding of the Committee shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of a
Objects of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3The Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014
vacancy among its members or any defect on the election or
nomination of any member thereof.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the following
powers:—
(a) to receive or collect money, gifts, donations, grants
or any other assistance from persons or
organizations in Sri Lanka or abroad:
Provided that, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in any other provisions of this Act, the
Committee shall obtain prior written approval of
the Department of External Resources of the
Ministry of the Minister to whom the subject of
Finance is assigned in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations;
(b) to open and maintain current, savings or any other
account in any bank or banks,as may be determined
by the Committee;
(c) to enter into, perform and execute contracts and
agreements either directly or through an officer or
agent authorized by the Corporation for such
purpose in order to achieve the objects of the
Corporation;
(d) to borrow money or raise funds for the purposes of
the Corporation;
(e) to invest funds of the Corporation in any  institution
approved by the Committee; and
(f) to appoint officers and servants for the fulfillment
of objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of the
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

The Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014
4
members present and voting to make rules not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act or any other written law, for
all or any of the followign matters:—
(a) the classification of membership and admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election or appointment of the members of the
Committee, their powers, duties, functions and the
terms of office;
(c) the appointment of various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation and their powers, duties,
functions and disciplinary control;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Committee, the time,
place, notice and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum therefor and the conduct of business thereat;
(e) management of properties of the Corporation and
custody of its funds and generally for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting, and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies here to for or hereafter received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fess or grants
or any financial investment shall be credited to the fund of
the Corporation (hereinafter referred to tas the “Fund”) and
such fund shall be maintained in one or more banks as may
be determined by the Committee.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5The Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014
(2) The following sums of money shall be credited to the
Fund:—
(a) all monies received and collected by the
Corporation by way of gifts, donations,
subscriptions, contributions, fees, or grants and
profits from investments;
(b) all monies received by the Corporation in the
exercise of its powers and performance of its
functions under this Act;
(c) all monies received by the Corporation as loans,
grants or donations from sources in  Sri Lanka or
abroad.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions.
8. Subject to the provisions of this Act the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property both movable or immovable which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition,  or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purpose of the Corporation and
subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6
with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.
9. The moneys and property of the Corporation shall be
applied solely towards the promotion of its objects as set
forth herein and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred
directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bouns, profit or
otherwise howsoever to the members of the Corporation.
10. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities, and all other transactions of the Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Application of
money and
property.
Audit of
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

The Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014
6
(2) The provisions of Aticle 154 of the Constitution shall
be applicable in respect of the audit of the account of the
Corporation.
(3) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
11. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the
custody of such person as may be determined by the
Committee, and may be altered from time to time, in the
manner determined by the Committee.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument except in the presence of two members of the
Committee who shall siging their names in token of their
presence, and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other association or associations having
objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which
is, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or profit among its or their members. Such
association or associations shall be determined by the
members of the Corporation at or immediately before the
time of dissolution of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or anybody politic or
Corporation.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
the dissolution
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7The Rehabilitation of Buddhist Temples
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 17 of 2014
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .