

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2995
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"998 – 2016 foieïn¾ ui 16 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'12'16
No. 1,998 –  fRiday ,  dEcEmbER  16, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th January, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd  december, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2993
Note.–  Heart to Heart trust fund (incorporation) bill was  published as a supplement to the part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of december 02, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
2994
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
2995
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
OPEN   COmPETITIvE   EXAmINATION   fOR 
RECRuITmENT   TO  GRADE  III   Of   PubLIC 
mANAGEmENT   ASSISTANTS'   SERvICE - 2016
it is hereby notified that an Open Competitive Examination 
for recruitment to the posts in class iii of Public management 
assistants' Service will be held by the commissioner-
General of Examinations in the month of march 2017. 
the examination will be held at the examination centers 
located in the towns mentioned in the Schedule ii. the 
expected town to sit for the examination shall be selected 
as per that schedule and the town expected to sit for the 
examination and the relevant number of the town should 
be mentioned correctly according to the Schedule ii. the 
towns applied for, which should be mentioned on the title 
of the application, should be exactly in line with the list. 
2.0  Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications 
will be selected on merit, on the results of a written 
examination to be conducted by the commissioner General 
of Examinations and on the basis of district population 
ratio, to the posts in the Grade iii of Public management 
assistants' Service. 
3.0  (a) Number of persons to be appointed and effective 
date of appointments will be determined by the 
appointing authority. further, the appointing 
authority reserves the right to refrain from 
filling some or all of the vacancies. 
 (b) Selected candidates shall be appointed to a 
post in Grade iii subject to general conditions 
governing the appointments in the Public 
Service, terms and conditions set out by the 
Public management assistants' Service minute 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013, amendment 
already made and will be made thereto in due 
course to the said service minute, provisions 
of the Establishments code and financial 
Regulations and Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009. 
 (c) The officer shall compulsorily serve at the service 
station to which he/she is appointed at first for 
three years. However, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to transfer any officer before 
the lapse of said period, on special reasons as 
determined by the same, if it is required to make 
such transfer. 
 (d) this appointment is subject to a probation 
period of three years. The First Efficiency Bar 
Examination shall be passed by the officer 
within a period of 03 years after recruiting to 
Grade iii of the Public management assistants' 
Service as prescribed in the Service minute. 
 (e) Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service 
as per Public administration circular 01/2014 
and consequent circulars.  
4.0 Salary.– as per the Public administration circular                             
No. 03/2016, dated 25.02.2016, monthly salary scale 
entitled to  Grade iii, ii and i of the Public management 
assistants' Service is Rs. 28,940 -10x300 -11x350 -10x560 
- 10x660 - Rs. 47,990 and the salary will be entitled 
from 01.01.2020 Salaries will be paid from the date of 
appointment as per the provisions in Schedule ii of the 
above circular. Promotion to Grade ii should be obtained 
to go beyond Rs. 31,940 whilst promotion to Grade i will 
be required to go beyond Rs. 35,790.
5.0 this post is permanent. the pension and the 
pension scheme entitled for the officers in Grade III 
will be determined on the policy decisions taken by the 
government. 
6.0 Qualifications.– Following qualifications are 
applicable for the recruitment to posts in class iii of Public 
management assistants' Service. 
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age on the closing date of 
applications,
 (c) Should be of an excellent character,
 (d) Shall be of an excellent moral character and 
physical fitness to serve at any part of the island,
 (e) Should have fulfilled the following educational 
qualifications. 
 (1) Shall have passed Six (06) subjects with credit 
passes for four (04) subjects including Sinhala/
tamil/English language and mathematics at 
the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary 
Level) Examination at One sitting ;
and 
 (2) Shall have passed all the subjects in General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
2996
at one sitting (except the General paper and 
General English).
Note.– It is sufficient to have passed 03 subjects 
under the old syllabus which was consisted of 04 
subjects. 
N.B.– It is compulsory to have satisfied all 
qualifications prescribed for the post by candidates 
on or before 16.01.2017. 
7.0 Selection on district population basis.– district 
Name list is indicated as Schedule i. the district selected to 
compete for vacancies and its number should be mentioned 
in the application correctly according to the Schedule i. 
 (a) Recruitment to the service will strictly be on a 
representative basis. A fixed number of vacancies 
will be set apart for each district in proportion to its 
population. only the applicants from a particular 
district will be entitled to compete for the number 
of vacancies to be filled from that District. 
 (i) if the vacancies so allocated to a particular 
district cannot be filled by the applicants 
who have applied for that particular district 
and have satisfied the quailfications, number 
of vacancies will be redistributed among the 
adjoining districts in proportion to population. 
 (ii) If the total number of vacancies to be filled is 
few and the district population basis cannot be 
applied, selection will be made on the order of 
merit. 
 (iii) Where the number of candidates who secure 
the minimum marks required is less than the 
number of vacancies available in a district, the 
district population basis shall not be appleid 
for the selection. 
 (b) eligibility for inclusion in a district. – at least 
one of the following requirements should have 
been fulfilled by a candidate to complete for the 
vacancies in any district. 
 (i) the candidate should have been born in the 
district ; 
or
 (ii) He should have been a permanent resident of 
the district at least for three (03) continuous 
years within the five (05) years immediately 
preceding the last date to fulfill the eligibility 
qualifications for the examination ; 
or
 (iii) He should have received his secondary school 
education within the district for five (05) 
continuous years. 
Note :
 1. In order to confirm the residence of the 
candidate who is selected from the written 
examination, he/she is bound to forward 
following documents, at the interview or any 
time inquired. 
 (i) Birth Certificate. 
 (ii) Extracts from electoral registers confirming 
the residence in continues three (03) years 
period and the certificate of residence issued 
by Grama Niladari duly counter signed by 
the divisional Secretary.
 (iii) School leaving certificate :
 2. if the farther/mother of any candidate has 
been employed in a transferable service of the 
government or of a Provincial Public Service 
or of a state corporation, such candidate will 
be allowed to choose his own, or his father's/
mother's place of birth as his district. (at the 
interview or any time candidates are required to 
forward documents to prove the place of birth 
of the parents and that they are public servants). 
 3. No candidate will be allowed to complete for 
vacancies in more than one district. once a 
candidate declares a district of his choice as the 
most preferred, it should remain irrevocable. 
8.0 three percent (3%) of the existing number of 
vacancies will be reserved for persons with disabilities. 
only 3% of the persons with disabilities who secure highest 
marks in the examination and qualify will be selectd for 
appointments. the minimum level of marks candidates 
should score to be selected for appointemnt is 50% of the 
total marks of the examination. a candidate selected for an 
appointment will be referred to a Special medical board 
and, by a report obtained from a medical specialist, he/she 
should establish the disablement and the fact that, it does 
not hinder performance of duties of the respective post. 
Note.– the applicant should mention in the 
application that he/she applies under disabled 
rehabilitation conditions. a person who is not 
disabled should not imply himself/herself as a 
disabled person. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
2997
9.0 Scheme of the examination : 
 (a) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. candidates may sit this 
examination in only one language medium of 
their preferences and should answer for the 
question papers using that language medium. 
candidates will not be allowed to change 
language medium applied initially. the 
examination will consist of two papers. 
   Marks Durations
 (i) Language proficiency 100 2 1/2 hours
 (ii) aptitude 100 1 hour
Language Proficiency .– this paper will consist 
of subject related questions designed to 
test the candidates' ability of expression, 
comprehension, spelling, language and essay, 
drafting a letter provided, preparing graphs 
and tables with data provided, summarizing 
the paragraphs given, expressing the idea of 
several given sentences in one sentence, the 
application of the simple rules of grammar. all 
questions should be answered. 
Aptitude.– this paper will consist of subject related 
questions designed to test the candidates' 
skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning 
and general intelligence. this consists of 50 
questions of multiple choice and short answer 
model. all qeustions should be answered. 
Note :–
 (i) these papers will be designed to test the 
aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform 
his official duties, 
 (ii) marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting 
and spelling mistakes in all the written question 
papers. 
 (b) despite this being a competitive examination, 
candidates are expected to secure at least 40% 
of the marks allocated for each subject and an 
aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of 
the examination. appointments will strictly be 
made in the order of merit based on the total 
marks scored, depending on the number of 
vacancies set apart to be filled on the results of 
the competitive examination. 
 (c) examination Results.– issuance of results to each 
candidate will be made by the commissioner 
General of Examination by post or via the 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk.
10.0 Penalty for furnishing false information.– the 
candidate should be very careful to include the correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any candidate 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. further, if 
it is found that any information furnished by a candidate 
is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the 
public service. 
11.0 examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. 
This fee can only be paid to any Post/Sub post office to be 
credited to revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained in the name 
of the applicants should be affixed in the relevant cage of 
the application so as not to be detached. (it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of this receipt with the candidate). Under 
no circumstance the examination fee will be refunded. 
money orders and stamps will not be accepted. 
12.0 Applications.– applications should be prepared 
in the following manner using a paper size a4 (21x29cm) 
(normal halfsheets).
 (a) Paragraphs form 1 to 3 should appear on the first 
side of the page,
 (b) Paragraphs No. 4 onwards should appear on the 
other pages,
 (c) the title of the examination appearing in the 
specimen should be indicated in English Language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil appilcation 
forms,
 (d) When mentioning the name of the candidate at the 
1.1 of the application, the last part of the full name 
of the applicant should be mentioned first and the 
initials of the names belong to the surname and 
the initials of the other parts of the name should 
be mentioned next. 
eg.– full name as at 1.2 of the application : 
matHURata  GamaRaLaLaGE  
bUddHiKa  SaRatH  KUmaRa  
GUNaWaRdHaNa.
 it should be written as GUNa WaRdHaNa, 
m. G. b. S. K. in 1.1 of the application. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
2998
applications which are incomplete and not prepared 
in accordance with the specimen form, will be rejected 
without any notice. applications of those who have not 
paid examination fees on or before due date will also be 
rejected. candidates should be responsible for any loss 
incurred by them due to incompleteness of applications. it 
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfected by him/herself complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice and further, 
it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form. 
N. B.– 1. candidates are not allowed to change 
the town in which they apply to sit the 
examination. at the instances where 
the number of candidates apply for a 
certain town, is not sufficient to hold an 
examination centre, they will be directed 
to the town which they have indicated as 
second preference. However, if there is not 
sufficient number of candidates even at the 
second centre, the candidates will be directed 
to an adjoining city. the commissioner 
General of Examinations reserves the right 
to make the final decision about the cities 
where exam will be held. 
 2. as the appointments are issued to the 
selected candidates strictly by the name with 
initials mentioned in the application, the 
name should be correctly written following 
the specimen provided. it shall not be 
allowed to change the name or include a part 
in the name or remove a part at the issuance 
of appointments. 
 12.1 all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees and forwarded their 
applications on or before the prescribed 
date will be allowed to sit the competitive 
examination, by the commissioner General of 
Examinations, on the presumption that only 
those who possess qualifications, indicated in 
the Gazette Notification have forwarded their 
applications. issuing of an admission card to a 
candidate to sit the competitive examination 
does not mean that the candidates' eligibility for 
the post has been accepted. if it is found at the 
interview that the applicant does not possess the 
required qualifications prescribed in the Gazette 
Notification, his or her candidature will be 
cancelled. 
 12.2 the words "open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Grade iii of Public management 
assistants' Service - 2016" and the district 
for which the candidate is competing should 
be written on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
 12.3 applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address on 
or before 16.01.2017. 
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organization and overseas Examinations branch, 
  department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
  P. o. box. 1503, 
  colombo.
 
13.0 Sitting the examination .– A notification will be 
published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. Here it would 
be advised to inquire from department of Examinations 
with keeping the certified photocopies of the application 
form and the cash receipt kept at your possession, receipt 
of registration in hand and mentioning the name of the 
Examination applied for, full name, Nic No. and address. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the 
candidate to the department of Examinations through the 
fax number mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. 
the signature of the applicant placed on the application 
and admission card should also be attested. an applicant 
who submits the application through an institution should 
get his/her signature attested by the Head of the institution 
or any officer authorized by him. Other applicants should 
get their signature attested by a School Principal/Retired 
Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of 
Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney at Law, Notary 
Public, a commissioned officer in three armed forces, 
a staff officer in the Public or Provincial Public Service 
who earn a combined salary of Rs. 240,360 or higher or 
a chief incumbent of a buddhist temple or clergy of any 
other religion who holds a considerable position. at the 
first instant the admission in which the signature is attested 
should be presented to the head of examination hall. a 
candidate who does not present the admission card will not 
be permitted to sits for the exam. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
2999
14.0 candidates should furnish one of the following 
documents to the Supervisor of Examination in support of 
their identity :–
 (i)  National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons,
 (ii)  a valid passport.
15.0 the issuing of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required 
qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates shall 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose 
of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be 
subjected to any punishment imposed by commissioner 
General of Examinations for violation of these rules and 
regulations. 
16.0 any matter not referred to herein will be decided 
by director General of combined Services. all candidates 
are bound to comply with the general examination rules 
published in this Gazette. 
17.0 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this examination 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 K. V . P. m. J. 
gamage,
 director General of combined Services 
 ministry of Public administration and 
 management.
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
01st of december, 2016. 
(For office use only)
Specimen Application form 
oPEN  comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRUitmENt  to GRadE iii of PUbLic maNaGEmENt 
aSSiStaNtS'  SERVicE - 2016
(indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
Language medium of Examination : 
Sinhala  - 2   
tamil  - 3 
English  - 4 
(indicate the correct number in the cage) 
* indicate the town and the town number in which the candidate   Town Number of the Town  
 intends to sit the examination as per the Gazette Notification.  1.
 (See the Schedule ii for the towns  where the examination centers  2.
 are located and for the respective numbers)
* the district in which you select to compete for vacancies as per  District District No.  
 para. 7.0 of the Gazette notification. (See the Schedule I for the 
 numbers of districts. indicate the number and the district in the 
 relevant cage)
* are you sitting this examination under the conditions laid down  in para. 8.0 of the Gazette notification which are 
relevant to disability ?    
 (candidates may refer para. 8.0 of  the Gazette Notification carefully  Yes - 1
 before filling this section since only the differently able candidates  No  - 2
 are required to mention "yes" in  this part) (indicate the number in the cage)
1.0 Name : 
 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)  eg.– GUNaWaRdHaNa, m. G. b. S. K.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3000
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.4 Number of the N. i. c. : 
2.0 2.1 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :  male - 0              female - 1          (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of birth :  y ear                             month           date 
 3.3 age as at 16.01.2017 : years                             months                days 
 3.4 telephone No. : 
4.0 4.1 Since when you have been residing in the district ? :––––––.
 4.2 divisional Secretary's/assistant Government agent's division :––––––––––. 
 4.3 Grama Niladhari division  :––––––––––. . 
5.0 educational Qualifications : 
 5.1 Particulars of G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
 i y ear and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
 ii index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
 iii Results : 
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
  1. 6.
  2. 7.
  3. 8.
  4. 9.
  5. 10.
 5.2 Particulars of G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
 i y ear and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
 ii index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
 iii Results : 
  Subject Grade
  1.
  2.
  3.
  4.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3001
 5.3 if possessing a degree from a recognized University : 
 (i) Name of the University :––––––––––.
 (ii) degree :––––––––––.
 (iii) year of Examination :––––––––––.
6.0  Other Qualifications :––––––––––. 
7.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court 
of Law ? (indicate P in the relevant cage) (indicate 
particulars, if the answer is yes) :
 y es : No : 
8.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the Examination 
fee : 
 (i) Office to which the payment was made :––––––––.
 (ii) Number and date of the receipt :––––––––––. 
 (iii) amount :––––––––––. 
Affix the  receipt firmly here. 
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
with the candidate)
9.0 Candidate's Certificate : 
 (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i agree to suffer any loss that 
may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections 
and/or provision of erroneous information. i also 
state that all sections herein have been correctly 
filled. 
 (b) i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dimissal from service if 
the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
 (c) i hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations for 
the purpose of holding this examination. 
 (d) i shall not change any information mentioned 
herein subsequently. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––.
10.0 Attestation of  Applicant's Signature : 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss  .......................  
who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on .............................. and further the officer has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the 
applications. 
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature. 
date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the signature :––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by Official Stamp)
Schedule - I 
the lISt of the nameS of dIStrIctS 
      District District Number
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
mannar 11
mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
trincomalee 14
batticaloa 15
ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa  20
badulla 21
monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3002
Schedule - II
townS where examInatIon centerS wIll be located
 District Town No. of the
   Town
01. colombo Kotahena 01
 maradana 02
 borella 03
 Kurunduwatta 04
 bambalapitiya 05
 Havelock town 06
 Nugegoda 07
 moratuwa 08
 Piliyandala 09
 Homagama 10
 maharagama 11
 Hanwella 12
 a vissawella 13
02. Gampaha Negombo 14
 minuwangoda 15
 divulapitiya 16
 Veyangoda 17
 Gampaha 18
 Ja-Ela 19
 Wattala 20
 Kelaniya 21
 dompe 22
03. Kalutara Horana 23
 Panadura 24
 Kalutara 25
 matugama 26
 aluthgama 27
04. matale matale 28
 Galewela 29
 Naula 30
 Laggala Pallegama 31
 
05. Kandy Kandy 32
 Katugastota 33
 t eldeniya 34
 Wattegama 35
 Nugawela 36
 Galagedara 37
 Gampola 38
06. Nuwara Eliya Hedunuwewa 39
 Nuwara Eliya 40
 Watumulla 41
 Hatton 42
 Ginigathhena 43
07. Galle ambalangoda 44
 Galle 45
 baddegama 46
08. matara Weligama 47
 matara 48
 Kamburupitiya 49
 Hakmana 50
 deiyandara 51
 dikwella 52
 akuressa 53
 Kotopola 54
09. Hambantota beliatta 55
 Walasmulla 56
 Weeraketiya 57
 t angalle 58
 ambalantota 59
 Hambantota 60
 t issamaharama 61
10. Jaffna chavakachcheri 62
 Jaffna 63
 thellipallai 64
 Point Pedro 65
11. mannar mannar 66
 murukkan 67
12. mullativu mullativu 68
13. Vavuniya Vavuniya 69
14. trincomalee Kantalai 70
 t rincomalee 71
 muttur 72
 Padavi Parakramapura 73
 Kinniya 74
15. batticaloa batticaloa 75
 Eravur 76
 Kathankudi 77
16. ampara ampara 78
 Serankada 79
 Kalmunai 80
 akkaraeipattu 81
 Sammanthurai 82
17. Puttalam Wennappuwa 83
 madampe 84
 chilaw 85
 Puttalam 86
 District Town No. of the
   Town

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3003
18. Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 87
 bingiriya 88
 Narammala 89
 Polgahawela 90
 Kurunegala 91
 ibbagamuwa 92
 dodangaslanda 93
 morathiha 94
 Nikaweratiya 95
 maho 96
19. anuradhapura medawachchiya 97
 Kekirawa 98
 anuradhapura 99
 Galenbindunuwewa 100
 Kahatagasdigiliya 101
20. Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 102
 Hingurakgoda 103
21. badulla bandarawela 104
 Welimada 105
 badulla 106
 Passara 107
 mahiyanganaya 108
 Girandurukotte 109
 Hasalaka 110
22. monaragala bibile 111
 monaragala 112
 Wellawaya 113
23. Kegalle Kegalle 114
 Rambukkana 115
 mawanella 116
 Ruwanwella 117
24. Ratnapura Eheliyagoda 118
 Ratnapura 119
 Pelmadulla 120
 balangoda  121
 Kalawana 122
 Embilipitiya 123
25. Kilinochchi Kilinochchi 124
 Pallai  125
12–697
LImITED  COmPETITIvE  EXAmINATION  fOR 
RECRuITmENT  TO GRADE III  Of  PubLIC 
mANAGEmENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERvICE - 2016
it is hereby notified that a limited competitive examination 
for recruitment to Grade iii of Public management 
assistants' Service 2016 will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in the month of march 2017. 
2.0 this examination will be held in the following 
towns for the officers who hold permanent posts in public 
service and have been confirmed in the said posts and 
receive salaries under the Salary code in the category of 
PL at Primary Level as per Public administration circular 
3/2016 and the officers who receive salaries under Salary 
code mN-01-2016. the list of towns and the respective 
town numbers are furnished below. the commissioner 
- General of Examinations may, at his discretion, cancel 
any of the examination centers owing to the insufficient 
number of candidates or another reason and decide an 
alternative center, taking the candidates' second preference 
into consideration.
 
 Town  Town  Town  Town
  No.  No.
colombo  01  t rincomalee  14 
Gampaha  02  batticaloa  15  
Kalutara  03  ampara  16  
matale  04  Puttalam  17  
Kandy  05  Kurunegala  18  
Nuwara Eliya  06  anuradhapura  19  
Galle  07  Polonnaruwa  20  
matara  08  badulla  21  
Hambanthota  09  monaragala  22  
Jaffna  10  Kegalle  23  
mannar  11  Ratnapura  24  
mulativu  12  Kilinochchi  25  
Vavuniya  13   
 
3.0 (i) this examination will be held by the 
commissioner - General of Examinations and 
the candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations prescribed by him for conducting the 
examination and issuance of results. his decision 
will be the final. 
 (ii)  Rules and regulations for candidates are 
provided separately in the Gazette notification. 
candidates are liable to any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, 
for breach of these rules. 
4.0 Medium in which candidates should sit for the 
examination.– this examination will be held in Sinhala, 
tamil & English languages. candidates may sit this 
 District Town No. of the
   Town

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3004
examination in only one language medium of their 
preference. candidates will not be allowed to change the 
language medium subsequently. 
5.0 Salary.– as per the Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the monthly salary scale 
applicable to Grade iii, ii and i of the Public management 
assistants' Service is Rs. 28,940 -10x300 -11x350 -10x560 
-10x660 - Rs. 47,990 and the said salary is entitled to you 
from 01.01.2020. Salary will be paid from the effective 
date of the appointment as per the provisions of Schedule 
II of said circular. Officers should obtain promotion to 
Grade ii and Grade i to go beyond the salary point of                           
Rs. 31,940 and Rs. 35,790 respectively. in addition, you 
are entitled to other allowances paid to the public officers 
by the government from time to time. 
Note.– they will be granted incremental credit 
subject to the incremental credit rules prevailing 
at the time of receiving appointment. 
6.0 Conditions of Service :– 
 (i)  Number of appointments and the effective date 
of appointments shall be determined by the 
appointing authority. the appointing authority 
reserves the right to refrain from filling of some 
or all vacancies. 
 (ii) Selected candidates shall be appointed to a post in 
Grade iii subject to general conditions governing 
the appointments in the Public Service, terms 
and conditions set out by the Pubilc management 
assistants' Service minute pubilshed in the 
Gazette extraordinary of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,840/34 dated 
11.12.2013, amendment already made and will 
be made thereto in due course to the said service 
minute, provisions of the Establishments code 
and financial Regulations and Procedural Rules 
of the Public Service commission published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,589/30 dated 
20.02.2009. 
 (iii) candidates who are successful in this 
examination will be appointed on an acting basis 
for one year from the date of the appointment. 
their posts will be permanent and pensionable. 
First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed 
within 03 years from the date of recruitment 
to Grade iii of Public management assistants' 
Service, as mentioned in the service minute. 
 (iv)  candidates who receive appointments on the 
results of the examination will be liable to 
transfer and may be posted to any station in Sri 
Lanka. 
 (v) The officer shall compulsorily serve at the service 
station to which he/she is appointed at first for 
three years. However, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to transfer any officer before 
the lapse of said period, on special reasons as 
determined by the same, if it is required to make 
such transfer. 
 (vi) Official language.– Officers who have been 
appointed to service in a language other than any 
official language shall acquire proficiency in one 
of the official languages before confirmation in 
the service. 
  Other Official Language.– Proficiency in the 
Second Official Language should be achieved 
before lapse of 05 years from the date of 
appointment in terms of the provisions of Public 
administration circular 01/2014 and circulars 
consequent to it. 
Note.– The officers in Provincial Public Service are 
not allowed to sit for this examination. 
7.0 Selections for Appointments.– The officers who 
hold permanent posts in Public Service and have been 
confirmed in the same posts and further receive salaries 
under Salary code in the category of PL at Primary Level 
as per Public administration circular 3/2016 and the 
officers who receive salaries under Salary Code MN-01-
2016 should strictly be allowed to sit for the competitive 
examination. marks will be deducted for illegible hand 
writing and spelling mistakes in every written answer 
paper. candidates may sit for the examination strictly in 
one langauge medium of their preference. At least fifty 
percent (50%) should be obtained from the total marks of 
the examination. appointment will be made on the order of 
merit and the number of existing vacancies. 
8.0 eligibility.– to be eligible to compete in this 
examination, every applicant shall :
  (i)  Shall be officers who are holding permanent 
posts in Public Service and receiving the 
salary at primary level under salary codes 
of PL category and officers receiving salary 
under Salary code mN-01-2016 as per Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016. 
  (ii) Shall have completed at least 5 years active 
and satisfactory service period for the closing 
date of application, and that which fact shall be 
certified by the Head of the Department. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3005
  (iii) Shall have passed the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level) Examination in not 
less than six (06) subjects including Language/
Literature and arithmetic/Pure mathematics/
Elementary mathematics/commercial arithmetic 
with credits passes for two subjects at one sitting. 
  (iv) candidates shall be of an excellent character. 
  (v) all the candidates shall have the physical and 
mental fitness to serve in any part of the Island 
and to perform the duties of the post. 
  (vi) All qualifications prescribed for recruitment to 
the post shall be completed as at 16.01.2017.
Note:- 
 (1) Period of service served prior to receiving a 
permanent appointment or any period of service 
or training period covered by a candidate prior to 
the appointment to a certain post on permanent 
basis or a training period which shall have to 
be completed as a condition for appointment to 
a certain post on permanent basis shall not be 
considered for the 05 years period mentioned 
in (ii) above. further the period of service 
under casual/temporary basis completed by a 
candidate before his appointment to a certain 
post on permanent basis shall not be taken into 
account when calculating the qualifying 05 
year period mentioned in (ii) above. 
 (2)  candidates should complete satisfactory 
service of 05 years immediately preceding the 
application closing date. Satisfactory service 
period is described by following facts :
 (a)  Shall have earned all the salary increments 
during the five years immediately preceding 
the date of receiving applications,
 (b)  Shall not be subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment during the five years 
immediately preceding the date of receiving 
applications. 
 (3) the Head of department should be prepared to 
release the officer if he/she is selected for an 
appointment. 
 (4) Employees who are engaged in semi-technical 
work, who have been trained on a certain 
task or who have been given special trai ning 
by the Government will not be eligible to sit 
this examination. for example, employees in 
engineering and industrial grades and Public 
Health Officers in the Department of Health 
will not be eligible to sit for this examination. 
in case there are any doubts as to whether 
a particular employee is eligible or not, the 
applicant should consult his department, which, 
in turn, will consult the director General of 
combined Services. 
  When consulting the director General of 
combined Services regarding the eligibility 
of any employee to sit this examination, 
the department concerned should submit a 
comprehensive description of the job held by 
the employee with the salary scale and state 
whether the applicant had been given any 
training to equip himself to hold the job and the 
nature and duration of such training, if any. 
 (5) t emporary and casual employees in Public 
service, employees of boards, corporations 
and similar bodies are not eligible to compete 
in this examination.
 (6) Except the employees in the combined Services, 
any other employee in Postal department, 
who have been given a training according to 
the above 4, are not eligible to appear for this 
examination.
 (7) the candidates, before forwarding their 
applications, should satisfy themselves that they 
have fulfilled all the requirements prescribed 
herein. candidates who present themselves 
for the examination without fulfilling the 
prescribed requirements will be disqualified, 
even if they attain a required standard of marks 
in the examination. 
9.0 Applications :-
  (a)  (i)  application forms should be prepared using 
a4 (21cm x 29cm) (Normal Half sheet) size 
papers, in such a manner that paragraphs from 
No. 01 to 03 appear on the first page and the 
paragraphs from No. 4 onwards on the other 
pages. 
  (ii) the title of the examination should be indicated 
in English Language as well, in the application 
forms prepared in Sinhala and tamil 
languages. a specimen form of application 
for admission to this examination is appended 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3006
to this notification. The application should be 
prepared only as per the specimen appended to 
this and a candidate should not send more than 
one application form. it is further informed 
that photocopies or advanced copies should 
not be sent. Relevant information should be 
given legibly by candidate's own handwriting. 
applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen form 
will be rejected without any notice. it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/herself complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice, 
as otherwise the application may be rejected. 
  (iii) appointments are issued to the selected 
candidates strictly by the name with initials 
mentioned in the application and therefore the 
name should be correctly written following 
the specimen provided. it shall not be allowed 
to change the name or include a part in the 
name or remove a part at the issuance of 
appointments. 
 (b)  examination Fees.- Examination fee is Rs. 600. 
this fee can only be paid to any Post/Sub Post 
Office to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-
13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. 
one edge of the receipt obtained from should be 
pasted in the relevant cage of the application form. 
the fee is non-refundable and it shall not be paid 
back or transferred to pay any other examination 
fee, under any circumstances. it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt. money orders 
or stamps are not accepted for examination fees. 
 (c) the application form must be completed correctly 
and legibly in the candidates own handwriting and 
sent by registered post to reach the 
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organization and foreign Examination branch, 
  department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, 
  P. o. box 1503, 
  colombo. 
  on or before 16.01.2017 the application closing 
date through the Heads of departments in which 
the candidates are serving. 
10.0  Heads of departments are required to furnish a 
certificate as indicated at the end of the application form. 
any application received after the due date will be rejected. 
the name of the examination should be clearly written 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
form. if any candidate fails to comply with this procedure, 
his/her application is liable to be rejected. candidates are 
requested to forward their applications to the Heads of their 
departments well in advance enabling them to forward the 
applications to the commissioner General of Examinations 
on or before 16.01.2017. 
the post and the service station of the candidate at 
the time of applying for the examination will be applied 
for all the actions of the examination. any changes taken 
place after submitting application will not be taken into 
consideration. 
11.0  the commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue a copy of the examination time table along with 
the admission card to all candidates whose applications 
have been received. concurrent to this, newspaper 
advertisement will be published by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, informing the same. Without 
such admission card, no candidate will be allowed to sit 
for the examination. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should 
be taken to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. When informing, 
the name of the examination applied for, full name, address 
and the Nic number of the candidate shall be indicated. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the 
candidate to the department of examinations through the 
fax number mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. further, it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information requested by 
the department of Examinations. 
Officers are appearing for the examination should get 
the admission card attested in advance and produce it to the 
supervisor of the examination hall. 
12.0  admission to the examination does not constitute 
acceptance of eligibility. Such admission will be subjected 
to scrutinization at a later stage. the candidature of any 
applicant, who is subsequently found to have been ineligible 
to compete at the examination, is liable to cancelled at any 
stage prior to, during or after the examination. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3007
issuance of an admission card to a candidate will not 
necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit for the examination. 
13.0  the results will be released to the director-General 
of combined Services by the commissioner-General of 
Examinations. in addition to the above results will be informed 
to each candidate by the commissioner General of Examinations 
by post or via the website www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
14.0 Identity of Candidates.- candidates will be 
required to prove their identity in the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they 
offer. for this purpose, any of the following documents 
will only be accepted :–
 (a)  the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (b)  a  valid passport.
15.0  Heads of departments should approve duty leave 
to officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations enabling 
them· to appear for the exam. travelling expenses are not 
payable. 
16.0 Penalty for Furnishing False Information.- 
candidates should take care to furnish correct information 
when filling the application form. As per the rules and 
regulations of the examination, the candidature of any 
applicant may be cancelled prior to, during or after 
the examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the 
examination is disclosed. if any of the particulars furnished 
by a candidate is found to be false at any stage he/she will 
be liable to dismissal from the Public Service. 
17.0  Scheme of examination.– the subjects of the 
examination and the marks assigned to each subject are 
given below: 
 Subjects Maximum Pass Duration 
  Marks  Mark
Language proficiency and  100  40 2 1/2 hours 
  aptitude test of 
  management assistants' 
  Service 
aptitude  100  40 1 hour 
18.0 Syllabus : 
  Language Proficiency and Aptitude Test of 
Management Assistants' Service (duration 2 1/2 
hours) :
  the question paper shall consist of subject related 
questions designed to test the candidates' ability of 
expression, comprehension, spellings, language 
and essay, drafting a given letter, summarizing 
passages, expressing the idea of several given 
sentences in one sentence making graph based on 
the given data and use of simple grammar. 
  Questions designed to test the knowledge of the 
candidate on basic rules and regulations applied 
in taking action regarding the documents of an 
office and Management Assistant's knowledge 
on duties such as action to be taken on a letter 
containing matters on which the officer should 
take action. 
  Questions to test candidate's knowledge on the 
items used in the office such as call-up diary, 
voucher, moving registers, attendance registers, 
day stamp, official stamp and mail bag and their 
use. 
All questions should be answered. 
 
Part I - Structural questions on comprehension in 
order to test the language skills, summarization 
and essay typewriting. (1 hour 15 minutes - 50 
marks)
Part II - Short questions, structured questions and 
Essays based on a case, statement or paragraph 
in order to test the aptitude for management 
assistants' Service. (1 hour 15 minutes - 50 
marks) 
Aptitude Test (Duration 1 hour) :
this paper shall consist of subject related questions 
designed to test the candidates' skill at numbers, 
power of critical reasoning and general intelligence. 
this consists of 50 questions of multiple choice and 
Short answer model. (duration 01 hour) 
All questions should be answered. 
Note:- 
 (i) these question papers are designed to test the 
candidate's aptitude and ability to undertake 
duties of the service. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3008
19.0  The decision of the Director General of Combined Service will be the final regarding any matter not 
provided for in this notice of examination. 
20.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail. 
 K. V . P. m. J. gamage,
 director General of combined Services,
 ministry of Public administration and management.
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
01st of december, 2016. 
Specimen Application form 
(For office use only) 
LimitEd comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRUitmENt to GRadE iii of 
PUbLic maNaGEmENt aSSiStaNtS' SERVicE - 2016
Language medium of Examination :  town Town No. 
 Sinhala   - 2  1
 t amil   - 3  2
 English   - 4  
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)  (town in which you intend to sit the examination as per the 
  Gazette notification)
  (it will not be allowed to change this subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
  eg.– GUNaWaRdHaNa, m. G. b. S. K.
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
2.0 Place of Work and address :
 2.1 Name and address of office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
 2.2 Name and address of office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)  
3.0 3.1 Sex :   female - 1,         male - 0  
           (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of birth :   year :                            month :               date :

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3009
 3.3 National identity card No. : 
 
 3.4 telephone No. : 
4.0 Service particulars : 
 4.1 Name of the department in which you are serving 
at present :––––––––.
 4.2 ministry or department to which it belongs :             
––––––––. 
 4.3 designation of present post :––––––––––. . 
 4.4 date of appointment to the present post :–––––––.
 4.5 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary                        
:––––––––––.
 4.6 Whether confirmed in the present post :––––––––.
 4.7 The date on which you qualified for confirmation 
:–––––––––.
 4.8 Reference No. and date of letter issued confirming 
you in the present post :––––––––––. 
 4.9 Present annual salary (consolidated) :––––––––––.
 4.10 Salary Scale (Salary code as per Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016) :- P.L. 1-2016/P.L.-2-2016/P.L.-3-2016/
mN-01-2016 - (cross off irrelevant words) :–––––––.
 4.11 Whether the present appointment is pensionable 
:–––––––––.
 4.12 Period of service in the present post as at 
16.01.2017 :––––––––––.
  
5.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the 
examination fee: 
 (i)  Office to which the fee was paid :––––––––. 
 (ii)  the date and number of the receipt :–––––––––.
 (iii)  amount paid :––––––––––. 
Affix the  relevant receipt firmly here. 
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
with the candidates)
i hereby certify that the information furnished here 
by me are correct. i am also aware that if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
appointment, I am liable to be disqualified and if found after 
appointment, i am liable to be dismissed. further, i state 
that i am bound by the rules and regulations and decisions 
taken to issuing of results imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination for the conduct of examination. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of candidate.
 (in the presence of the Head of department). 
date :–––––––––.
Note.– the applicant should place his/her signature in 
the presence of his/her Head of Department or an officer 
authorized to sign on behalf of him. 
Attestation of  Signature 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss  ....................., employed 
at my place of work and who is personally known to me, 
placed his/her signature in my presence on ................ 
 ––––––––––,
 Signature and Official Stamp 
 of the person attesting. 
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department 
  i hereby certify,
 (01)  that this candidate (mr./mrs./miss.) .................. is 
an employee in this department ;
 (02)  that he/she is holding a permanent post ;
 (03)  that he/she has been confirmed in a permanent post 
as at 16.01.2017 ;
 (04)  that he/she has been issued a letter confirming him/
her in a permanent post ;
 (05)  that he/she has completed at least 5 years of active 
and satisfactory service on or before 16.01.2017 ;
 (06)  that he/she is drawing a salary / or is on a scale of 
salary which is within the limits prescribed in para 
8.0 of the Gazette Notification ; 
 (07)  that his/her work and conduct during the 5 years 
immediately prior to 16.01.2017 have been 
satisfactory ; 
 (08)  that he/she could be released from his/her present 
post, if selected for an appointment on the results 
of this examination ;

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3010
 (09)  that the application bears a receipt to the value of 
Rs. 600 ;
 (10)  that the particulars given in his/her application 
have been checked with records available in 
this departments and that he/she is eligible to sit 
this examination according to the regulations 
prescribed in the Gazette Notification relating to 
this examination. 
  –––––––––––,
  Signature and Official Stamp 
  of Head of department.
date :––––––––––.  
Name :––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––.     
address :––––––––––.   
Note : 
 (1)  This certificate should be signed only by the Head 
of Department or by a Staff Officer duly authorized 
to sign on his behalf. The officer issuing the 
certificate should satisfy himself that the contents 
of the certificate are correct in all aspects.  
 (2)  the application of any candidate who does not 
satisfy all the requirements of eligibility should 
not be forwarded to the commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
12–696
–––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
Limited Competitive Examination for Promotion 
of the Officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service to Special 
Grade – year 2015
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the Minute of 
Sri Lanka technological Service, published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015, the limited 
competitive examination for promotion of officers in Grade 
i of Sri Lanka technological Service to Special Grade will 
be held by the commissioner General of Examinations, in 
colombo, in the month of march, 2017. 
02. Officers who have satisfied the following 
qualifications as at 31.12.2015 shall apply for this 
examination. 
 (i) Officers who have completed at least an active 
and satisfactory service of five (05) years in 
Grade i of Supervisory management assistant - 
technological Service (mN-03-2006a) category 
of Sri Lanka technological Service and have 
earned the five (5) salary increments. 
 (ii) Officers who have completed a satisfactory 
service of five (05) years immediately preceding 
the date of promotion. 
03. following salary scale shall be applicable to 
the officers in Special Class. (MN-7-2006-A Step 4)                            
Rs. 21,125 -8x 365 -18x500 - Rs. 33,045)
04. Promotion from Grade i to Special Grade of Sri 
Lanka technological Service shall be in the following 
manner : 
 (i) Vacancies in each post in Special Grade of Sri 
Lanka technological Service existing at each 
department and ministry from 01.01.2015 to 
31.12.2015 shall be filled on the results of this 
examination. 
 (ii) the results of the limited competitive examination 
for recruitment to the Special Grade shall strictly 
be applicable to fill the vacancies existing from 
01.01.2015 to  31.12.2015. 
 (iii) Percentage of recruitment
  Limited    40%
  Service experience and merit 60%
 (iv) at the instances where the approved number of 
posts is 04  the percentage of recruitment under 
limited competitive examination shall be 25% 
and the percentage of recruitment under service 
experience and merit shall be 75%. at the 
instances where the approved number of posts 
is 03, the percentage of recruitment under the 
above limited competitive examination shall be 
33.33% and the percentage of recruitment under 
service experience and merit shall be 66.66%.
 (v) filling of vacancies shall be made strictly on the 
results of the limited competitive examination 
at the instances where the aprpoved number of 
posts in Special Grade is over 03. 
 (vi) Promotion to Special Grade shall be made by the 
Public Service commission to be effective from 
the date of examination on the order of merit of 
the examination and the number of vacancies, 
after verifying by an interview board appointed 
by Public Service commission that the other 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3011
relevant qualifications have also been fulfilled 
by those who have passed on the results of the 
limited competitive examination for promotion 
to Special Grade conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on behalf of the 
Secretary, ministry of Public administration and 
management. 
 (vii) Officers, out of the applicants who have satisfied 
the basic qualifications as at the date on which 
each post has fallen vacant, shall be considered 
for the relevant promotions as per order of merit 
at the time of filling the vacancies. 
05. (i) this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations prescribed by him in respect of 
conducting the examination and issuance of 
results. 
 (ii) the candidates shall be subjected to the 
punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, if such rules are 
violated by them. Rules prescribed for candidates 
are printed separately at the beginning of this 
Gazette notification. 
06. the specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
candidates are required to prepare their application in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers in the 
Public Service should forward their applications through 
the respective Head of Department and officers in the 
Provincial Public Service should forward their applications 
thorugh the Secretary of Public Service commission in 
the Provincial council where they serve, by registered 
post to reach the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations and foreign Examinations branch, 
department of Examinations, P. o. box 1503, colombo 
on or before 16th of January 2017. the top left corner of 
the envelope containing the application should bear clearly 
the title of the examination. applications received after the 
closing date of applications will be rejected. 
07. Identity Cards.– candidates should prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose one 
of the following documents should be produced  to the 
supervisor of the examination hall :
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons, 
 (b) a valid passport.
the candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish 
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the 
discretion of commissioner General of Examinations. 
08. Application : 
 (i) applications should be prepared in a paper a4 in 
size using both sides. No. 01 to 05 should appear 
on the first page. Applications could be typed but 
they should be completed correctly and legibly 
by the candidate in his/her own handwriting. 
  When preparing the application, the title of the 
examination should be written in English in 
addition to Sinhala on Sinhala applications and 
tamil on tamil applications. applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and have not 
been duly perfected shall be rejected without 
notice. therefore, the candidates themselves 
should make sure that the perfected applications 
are in conformity with the specimen form. it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
form with the candidate. 
 (ii) candidates are not allowed to change the 
language medium selected by them in their 
applications. if applications are received in all 
three language mediums, i. e. Sinhala, tamil and 
English, the examination will be held in those 
three language mediums. However, candidates 
should answer all the question papers in one and 
the same language selected by them. 
 (iii) candidates who appear for this examination 
for the first time are not required to pay any 
examination fee. However, if a subsequent sitting, 
an examination fee of Rs. 600 should be paid at 
any Post Office/Sub Post Office to be credited to 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained 
thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of the 
application form money orders or stamps are not 
accepted for examinations fees. it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt. the fee shall not 
be paid back or shall not be allowed to transfer 
in respect of any other examination under any 
circumstances. 
09. the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates who have 
forwarded duly perfected applications along with the 
receipt if payment of examination fee on or before the 
closing date of examination mentioned in the notification 
is applicable, medium of examination, Public Service to 
which the applicant belongs, signature of the applicant 
and the attestation of the signature, recommendation 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3012
and certification of the Head of the Department, on the 
presumption that only those who possess the qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. 
Officers sitting for the examination must get his signature 
on the admission card attested in advance and produce 
to the supervisor of the examination center. it will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination without such admission 
card. further, issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to 
sit for the examination. 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates, 
department of Examinations will publish a paper notice 
announcing the same. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement it should be 
inquired from the organizations and foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations. in the manner 
as mentioned in the notification. The applicant should 
correctly mention the name of the examination applied 
for, full name of the applicant, national identity card 
number and address when making such inquiry. in case of 
applicants outside colombo, it would be advisable to make 
the request sending a letter of request stating the same to 
the fax number mentioned in the notification along with 
the fax number to which a copy of the admission card can 
be sent promptly. it would be useful to have the following 
documents in hand at the time of calling the department 
of Examinations, i. e. a photocopy of the application form, 
receipt of payment of examination fees (if applicable) and 
receipt of registration. 
10. the documents furnished later by the candidates 
who have failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in Para 
(08) above will not be considered. 
11. Issuance of the results of the examination.– actions 
shall be taken to issue the results of this examination to the 
Secretary of the Public Service commission. 
12. Scheme of examination : 
 (i) Examination for promotion of officers in Class 
i to Special class will consist of 2 question 
papers. 
   (1) aptitude test - duration 1 hour - 100 marks
  (2) management - duration 3 hours - 100 marks
candidates shall be required to obtain a minimum of 
40% of the marks for each question paper to be qualified. 
Syllabus of the first question paper shall be as follows :
Aptitude Test - Subject No. (1)
A test designed to assess as to whether the officer has 
acquired knowledge, skills and attitudes required for the 
fulfillment of tasks entruste d to him/her in an efficiency 
beyond the performance at average level and whether the 
officer displays competency in the application of the above. 
this question paper consists of 50 questions in the form 
of multiple choice and questions for short answers and all 
the questions should be answered. 
Syllabus of the second question paper will be as follows : 
management - Subject No. (2)
 (i) Principles of management
 (ii) management functions
  Planning
  decision making
  Process of decision making
  organization
  Staffing
  directing
  motivation process
  Leadership
  control
  Process of controlling 
 (iii) Participatory management
 (iv) management Environment 
 (v) case study
this is a structured essay type question paper. all the 
questions should be answered. 
13. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination 
in conducting the examination and issuing the results. 
candidates are liable to be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination for 
breach of these rules. in accordance with the regulations 
relevant to this notification, if a candidate is found to be 
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to during or after the examination. 
14. the decision of the Secretary of the Public Service 
Commission will be the final in respect of any matter not 
provided for in this notification. 
15. in case of an inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil 
and English text of this Gazette notification, The Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
on the order of the Public Service commission, 
  J. 
J. rathnaSIrI,
  Secretary,
  ministry of Public administration and  
 management.
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
30th November, 2016.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3013
Specimen form of Application 
(For office use only) 
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha i fY%aKsfha ks,Orhka úfYaI 
fY%aKshg Wiia lsÍfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2015
 LimitEd comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR 
PRomotioN of tHE officERS iN GRadE i of 
SRi LaNKa tEcHNoLoGicaL SERVicE to 
SPEciaL GRadE - yEaR 2015
01.  (a)  Medium in which the officer appears for the 
examination:
   (Sinhala - 2/tamil - 3/English - 4)
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   indicate whether you belong to Provincial Public 
Service or which Public Service
   (indicate the number relevant to the public service 
to which you belong)
   (Western Provincial Public Service - 01/central 
Provincial Public Service - 02/Southern Provincial 
Public Service -03/Northern Provincial Public 
Service - 04/Eastern Provincial Public Service - 
05/North Western Provincial Public Service - 06/
North central Provincial Public Service - 07/Uva 
Provincial Public Service - 08/Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Public Service - 09/central Government 
Service - 10)
   
  (b)  Name in full (in English block capital letters) : 
––––––––––.
   (eg. : HERatH  mUdiyaNSELaGE  SamaN  
    KUmaRa  GUNaWaRdHaNa) 
  (c) Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters)
   (eg. : GUNa WaRdHaNa  H. m. S. K.) 
  (d) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
  (e) Official address (Admissions will be posted to this 
address) :––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters) : 
   (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
  (f) Sex :
   (male - 0  female - 1)
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  (g) National identity card No. :
  (h) t elephone No. :
02. department which you belong to :––––––––––.
03. designation :––––––––––.
04. Period of service as at 31.12.2015 : 
 y ears :  months :  days :
05.  (i) date of birth : 
  
   y ear :  month :  date :
  (ii) age as at 31.12.2015 : 
   y ears :  months :  days :
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of 
Rs. 600 firmly, if not the first sitting. 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy) 
Receipt number of the examination fee :––––––––––.
Office to which the fee was paid :––––––––––.
amount paid :––––––––––.
i, declare that the particulars furnished above are 
accurate and i am entited to sit for the examination in the 
language medium mentioned above. furthermore, i, hereby 
agree to be abided by the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations in conducting 
the examination and issuing the results. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
Note.– candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of the Head of the department or an 
officer duly authorized to sign on his behalf or 
Head of the Regional Office. 
Attestation of Candidate's Signature
i, hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ............................... 
is presently employed in my office and is personally known 
to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3014
on ....................... and he/she is exempted from payment of 
examination fee/has paid the examination fee and affixed 
the reelevant receipt. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester.
  Official Seal.
date :––––––––––.
Recommendation and Certification of the Head of the 
Department
  (i) Recommendation of the Head of the department 
on the disciplinary inquiries that were carried 
on or are being carried on against the applicant :               
––––––––––.
  (ii) i hereby certify that the particulars given in 
paragraphs 01-05 above are correct that this 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination, that 
he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the 
language medium mentioned above and he/she is 
exempted from payment of examination fee/has 
paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant 
receipt. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature and designation of 
  Head of department.
  Official Stamp. 
date :––––––––––.
Note.– A certified copy should be sent to the personal file 
of the candidate and the other copy should be sent 
to reach department of examinations of Sri Lanka 
promptly.  
12–638
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT & 
vOCATIONAL TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
admiSSioN of StUdENtS to diPLoma LEVEL 
coURSES (NVQ 5/6)coNdUctEd
at coLLEGES of tEcHNoLoGy/ tEcHNicaL 
coLLEGES– 2017
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible candidates for 
courses conducted in colleges of technology/ technical 
Colleges appearing in this notification. Students will be 
selected for admission according to their qualifications and 
merit, and the capacity in each course.
02. the prospective candidates are advised to prepare 
applications by themselves on a a4 sheet of paper in 
accordance with the “Specimen application form” given 
in this notification. As specified in item 14 in the specimen 
application form, duly completed applications should 
be sent under Registered Cover to reach the Director/ 
Principal of the respective College of Technology/ 
Technical College on or before 13/01/2017.
all details in this connection are published in the web 
site www.dtet.gov.lk and your application for courses, can 
also be submitted through this web site.
03. the top left hand corner of the envelope should be 
marked with the title of the course applied for, with its 
course code.
04. applications received after the closing date will be 
rejected.
05. a fee of Rs.5,000 will be charged for Part time / 
Evening course per year. 
06. all courses are conducted only in English medium. 
(a foundation English module  for 300 hours will be 
conducted to facilitate students)  
07. attention of all candidates is invited to the Schedule 
of Courses annexed at the end of this notification, which 
indicates the nature of courses, eligibility requirements for 
each course, the colleges where the courses are conducted, 
the addresses of colleges of technology/ technical 
colleges are shown in the List of colleges.  
08. a candidate seeking admission to follow a course in 
these colleges of technology/ technical colleges should-
 (i) have a good  character;
 (ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
 (iii) Have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements 
for admission at the time of forwarding the 
application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results 
of an interview. In doing so, priority will be given to the 
applicants with NVQ level 3/4 qualifications.
10. any documents or copies should not be submitted 
along with the application. those candidates who fail to 
produce the necessary and acceptable documents to prove 
their eligibility at the interview will be disqualified.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3015
11. i. Students of full time / day course will be 
paid a stipend of Rs. 50/= per day subject to 
a maximum of Rs.1000/= per month, based 
on the attendance to the classes and the family 
income.
  ii. an annual bursary of Rs. 2500/= will be paid 
to full time/ day course students selected from 
low income families.
  iii. if required, students of fulltime/ day courses 
can obtain concessionary season tickets for 
the train or SLtb buses.
12. those who wish to enroll in the Part – time / 
Weekend courses should have been employed in the 
relevant field. 
13. the candidate is held entirely responsible for the 
authenticity of his/her documents. candidates who submit 
documents that have been tampered with or forged or not 
proved in fact at the interview will be rejected.
14. director General of this department has the 
discretion to commence or suspend a course, in case 
sufficient number of applications are not received for the 
courses scheduled to be conducted at colleges listed in this 
Gazette for 2017.
15. candidates can apply for more than one course 
using separate application forms for each course.
 J.a. 
ranJIth,
 director General,
 department of technical Education and  
 t raining.
P.o. box 557,
olcot mawatha, colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk 
List of Colleges of Technology/ Technical Colleges
Serial
No.
Colleges of Technology/ 
Technical Colleges
Address District e-mail Address / Telephone 
No.  
01 Sri Lanka college of 
technology, maradana
olcott mawatha, 
colombo 10
colombo
cotmaradana@gmail.com
011 2324177
02 college of technology, Galle Kaluwella, Galle Galle
cotgalle2007@gmail.com
091 2234051
03 college of technology,Kandy aruppola, Kandy Kandy
kandycot@gmail.com
081 2224063
04 college of technology, Jaffna browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
cotjaffna@gmail.com
021 2222358
05 college of technology, badulla Greenlane drive, badulla badulla
cotbadulla@gmail.com
055 2222413
06 college of technology, 
anuradhapura
New town, 
anuradhapura
anuradhapura
cotanuradhapura@gmail.
com
025 2222666
07 college of technology, 
Kurunegala
Puttalam Road, 
Kurunegala
Kurunegala
cotkurunegala@gmail.com
037 2223264
08 Hardy college of technology, 
ampara
inginiyagala Road, 
ampara
ampara
cotampara@gmail.com
063 2223485
09 college of technology, 
Ratnapura
Plam Gardens, colombo 
Road, Ratnapura
Ratnapura
cotrathnapura@gmail.com  
0452232390
10 technical college, Warakapola anguruwella Road, 
Warakapola
Kegalle
tcwarakapola@gmail.com
0352267651
11 technical college, Kegalle Kachcheriya Road, 
Kegalle
Kegalle
tckegalle@gmail.com
0352222441
12 technical college, batticaloa mnachanthudwei, 
batticaloa
batticaloa
tcbatticaloa@gmail.com
0652246557

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3016
Serial
No.
Colleges of Technology/ 
Technical Colleges
Address District e-mail Address / Telephone 
No.  
13 technical college, Gampaha Weralla Watta, yakkala Gampaha tcgampaha@gmail.com
0332222132
14 technical college, balapitiya Railway Road, 
Wandaduwa, balapitiya
Galle
tcbalapitiya@gmail.com
0912258096
15 technical college, matale m.c.Road, matale. matale
tcmatale@gmail.com
0662224196
16 technical college, Kaluthara Kalamulla, Kaluthara Kaluthara
teckalutara@gmail.com
0342222325
17 technical college, Vavuniya mannar Road, Vavuniya. Vavuniya
tcvavuniya@gmail.com
0242223664
18 technical college, Ratmalana Galle Road,  Ratmalana colombo
tcratmalana@gmail.com
0112633479
19 technical college, 
beliatta
Puwakdandawa, beliatta Hambanthota
tcbeliatta@gmail.com
0472243229
20 technical college, 
dambulla
matale Road,
dambulla
matale
tcdambulla@gmail.com
0662284713
21 technical college, 
Kuliyapitiya
Pannala Road, 
Kuliyapitiya
Kurunegala
tckuliyapitiya@gmail.com
0372281181
22 technical college, 
trincomalee
mihindupura,
trincomalee.
trincomalee
tctrincomalee@gmail.com
0262051513
SpecImen applIcatIon form
applIcatIon for admISSIon to collegeS of technology/ technIcal collegeS  nVQ leVel 05 /06 
Diploma Level Courses, Academic Year – 2017
     
                                                                                                   For Official use only
01.  Name of the college of technology/ technical college applied :–––––––––––––.
02.  Name of the course :–––––––––––––.
 (full time day/Evening/Part time)
03.  course code No. :–––––––––––––.
04.  applicant's Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
05.  Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
06.  Permanent address:–––––––––––––.
07.  contact telephone Numbers  :–––––––––––––.   E-mail :–––––––––––––.
08.  National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
09. Resident  district:–––––––––––––.  Electorate :–––––––––––––.
  : divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––––.
  : Grama Niladari division :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3017
10.  date of birth :  year :–––––––––––––. month :–––––––––––––. date :–––––––––––––.
       age as at 13.01.2017  : years :–––––––––––––.  months :–––––––––––––. days :–––––––––––––.
11.  Gender :   male                    female 
        (cross relevant box) 
12.  Educational Qualifications: -
      (a) G.c.E. (o/L) Results (Not more than two attempts) :
  Index No. Year Subjects  Grade
 (b) G.c.E. (a/L) Results :
  Index No. Year Subjects  Grade
 
     
13. NVQ Level Qualifications for Admission :
Name of Certificate 
Received 
 (with relevant field)
NVQ Level Name of the 
Institute, followed 
the Course 
Details of 
Experience
Service
Years    Months              
14.  Applicant’ s Declaration :
      i hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to the best of my knowledge, and i have 
obtained the qualifications required for the course applied for.  Further, I agree with the scheme of selection of students 
to colleges of technology/ technical colleges and to accept the decision of the director General of the department of 
Technical Education and Training as final.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 applicant’s Signature.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3018
ADmISSION Of STuDENTS TO DIPLOmA LEvEL COuRSES (NvQ LEvEL 5/6) CONDuCTED
AT COLLEGES Of TEChNOLOGy/ TEChNICAL COLLEGES
Qualifications for admission to Diploma Level Courses 
Serial 
No.
Course 
Code 
No.
Name of the Course
Colleges of 
Technology/ 
Technical Colleges
Admission Qualifications
Full Time Courses
Age Should be between 17 and 29 years 
Part Time Courses
Age Should be more than 17 Years
01 Eta 21 National diploma 
intelecommunication 
technology
(NvQ 5 and 6 Combined)
full time day course
2 ½ years
(includes 6 months foundation  
course) 
(this course includes the use 
of telecommunication devices 
to Exchange information by 
Electronic and Electrical means 
Over a Significant distance)
Galle, Jaffna ¡ computer Hardware t echnician
¡ industrial Electrician
¡ computer Network t echnician
¡ Radio, tV & allied Equipment 
Repairer
 
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above course
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
mathematics / Science. (Preference will 
be given to those who have followed 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering technology 
stream)
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E.(a/L) arts stream with a 
credit pass for one (01) of the following 
subjects. Electrical technology or 
Electronic technology or information & 
communication technology under Hard 
technology.
Eta 
21.1
National diploma 
intelecommunication 
technology
(NvQ 5 and 6 Combined)
Weekends / Part time
(No. of prescribed hours for 
NVQ Level 5/6)
(includes 6 months foundation  
course) 
(this course includes the use 
of t elecommunication devices 
to exchange information by 
electronic and electrical means 
over a significant distance)
 Jaffna ¡ computer Hardware t echnician
¡ industrial Electrician
¡ computer Network t echnician
¡ Radio, tV & allied Equipment 
Repairer
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above course. 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3019
Serial 
No.
Course 
Code 
No.
Name of the Course
Colleges of 
Technology/ 
Technical 
Colleges
Admission Qualifications
Full Time Courses
Age Should be between 17 and 29 years 
Part Time Courses
Age Should be more than 17 Years
02 Etb 
04
National diploma in 
mechatronics technology 
NvQ Level 5
full time day course
1 ½ years
(includes 6 months foundation  
course)
(this course includes the 
subjects related to designing, 
operating, maintaining and 
Repairing Hydraulic, Pneumatic 
Electrical and Electronic 
Systems.  also include Robotic, 
PLc and Scada Systems)
maradana , Galle ¡ Radio, tV & allied Equipment 
Repairer
¡ computer Hardware t echnician
¡ Electrician
¡ Pneumatic technician
¡ automobile technician
¡ automobile Electrician
¡ Household Electrical appliances 
Repairer 
¡ fitter (General) / machinist
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above courses
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
mathematics / Science. (Preference will 
be given to those who have followed 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering technology 
Stream)
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E.(a/L) arts stream with a credit 
pass for one (01) of the following subjects. 
Electrical technology,
Electronic technology or information & 
communication technology under Hard 
technology.
Etb 
04.1
National diploma in 
mechatronics technology
NvQ Level 5
Weekends / Part time (No. 
of Prescribed hours for NVQ 
Level 5)
(includes 6 months foundation  
course)
(this course includes the 
subjects related to designing, 
operating, maintaining and 
Repairing Hydraulic, Pneumatic 
Electrical and Electronic 
Systems.  also include Robotic, 
PLc and Scada Systems)
maradana, Galle. ¡ Radio, tV & allied Equipment 
Repairer
¡ computer Hardware t echnician
¡ Electrician
¡ Pneumatic technician
¡ automobile technician
¡ automobile Electrician
¡ House hold Electrical appliances 
Repairer 
¡ fitter(General) / machinist
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above courses.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3020
¡ construction craftsman (masonry)
¡ Wood  craftsman (building)
¡ construction Site Supervisor
¡ Plumber
¡ industrial Plumber
¡ Painter (building)
¡ draughtsman
¡ assistant Quantity Surveyor 
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses
or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering 
technology/ mathematics / Science. 
(Preference will be given to those 
who have followed G.c.E.(a/L) in 
Engineering technology Stream)
or
Should have passed in three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E.(a/L) arts stream 
with a credit pass for one (01) of 
the following subjects: Electrical 
technology, Electronic technology 
or civil technology under Hard 
technology.
¡ construction craftsman (masonry)
¡ Wood  craftsman (building)
¡ construction Site Supervisor
¡ Plumber
¡ industrial Plumber
¡ Painter (building)
¡ draughtsman
¡ assistant Quantity Surveyor 
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses.
badulla, 
Kurunegala, 
anuradhapura, 
Galle,
Ratnapura,
Jaffna
ampara, Jaffna, 
Ratnapura, Galle, 
Kurunegala, 
Kandy.
 03 Etb 06 National diploma in   
   construction technology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½ years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes the  
   subjects related to Planning or 
   c onstruction Works, managing,  
   and organizing Sites)
  Etb 06.1 National diploma in   
   construction technology
   NvQ Level 5
   Weekends / Part time (No. of  
   prescribed hours for NVQ  
   Level 5)
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes the  
   subjects related to  Planning  
   of  construction Works,  
   managing, and organizing  
   Sites)
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3021
¡ automobile mechanic
¡ automobile Electrician
¡ automobile Painter
¡ motor cycle mechanic & 
 three-wheeler mechanic
¡ three-wheeler mechanic
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses
or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering 
technology/ mathematics / Science.
(Preference will be given to those 
who have followed G.c.E.(a/L) in 
Engineering technology Stream)
or
Should have passed in three (03) 
subjects at  G.c.E.(a/L) arts stream 
with a credit pass for mechanical 
technology under Hard technology.
¡ automobile mechanic
¡ automobile Electrician
¡ automobile Painter
¡ motor cycle mechanic & 
 three-wheeler mechanic
¡ three-wheeler mechanic
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
Certificate for one of the above 
courses.
ampara, 
Kurunegala, 
Kandy, badulla, 
maradana.
Kandy, Jaffna,
Kurunegala.
 04 Etb 07 National diploma in   
   automobile technology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½ years 
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes Study  
   on proper functioning and 
   maintenance of automobile,  
   two stroke and four stroke  
   engine operating systems and  
   other sub systems related to  
   them)
  Etb 07.1 National diploma   
   in automobile technology
   NvQ Level 5
   Weekends / Part time (No. of  
   prescribed  hours for NVQ  
   Level 5)
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes Study on 
   proper functioning and   
   maintenance of automobile, 
   two stroke and four stroke 
   engine operating systems and 
   other sub systems related to  
   them) 
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3022
¡ Refrigeration & air conditioning 
mechanic
¡ automobile air conditioning 
mechanic
¡ automobile Electrician
¡ Household Electrical appliances 
Repairer
¡ Electrician
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
Certificate for one of the above 
courses
or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering 
technology/ mathematics / Science. 
(Preference will be given to those 
who have followed G.c.E.(a/L) in 
Engineering technology Stream)
or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E.(a/L) arts Stream with 
a credit pass for either Electrical 
technology or Electronic technology 
under Hard technology.
¡ Refrigeration & air conditioning 
mechanic
¡ automobile air conditioning 
mechanic
¡ automobile Electrician
¡ Household Electrical appliances 
Repairer
¡ Electrician
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
Certificate for one of the above 
courses.
anuradhapura, 
Ratnapura,
Kandy, Kalutara,
anuradhapura
 05 Etb 08 National diploma in 
   Refrigeration & air  
   conditioning  t echnology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½ years 
   (includes 6 months foundation  
   course)
   (this course includes 
   techniques applied for 
   developing more comfortable 
   conditions to improve thermal 
   comfort and indoor air quality)
  Etb 08.1 National diploma in 
   Refrigeration & air 
   conditioning  t echnology
   NvQ Level 5
   Weekends / Part time (No. of 
   prescribed hours for 
   NVQ Level 5)
   (includes 6 months foundation  
   course)
   (this course includes 
   techniques applied for 
   developing more comfortable 
   conditions to improve thermal  
   comfort and indoor air quality)
 
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3023
¡ t ea factory mechanic
¡ agriculture Equipment mechanic
¡ automobile mechanic
¡ machinist
¡ construction Equipment mechanic
¡ field assistant (agriculture)
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses ;
or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G.c.E.(a/L) 
in Engineering technology/ mathematics 
/ Science. (Preference will be given to 
those who have followed G.c.E.(a/L) 
in Engineering technology Stream)
or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E.(a/L) arts Stream with 
a credit pass for agro technology 
under Soft technology or Electronic 
technology under Hard technology.
¡ i nformation  &  communication 
technician
¡ computer application assistant
¡ computer Graphic designer
¡ computer Hardware t echnician
¡ desk t op Publisher
¡ computer Network t echnician
Should have  obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
Certificate for one of the above course
or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E.(a/L) arts Stream with 
a credit pass for information and 
communication technology under 
Hard technology.
anuradhapura
maradana, Kandy, 
Galle, 
badulla, 
Ratnapura, Jaffna, 
Kurunegala, 
Kegalle, ampara, 
matale,
Vavuniya.
 06 Etb 09 National diploma in farm  
   machinery technology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½ years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes selection,  
   operation, utilization, and  
   maintenance of machinery and  
   mechanical devices related to  
   agricultural activities)
 07 Etb 11 National diploma in   
   information & communication  
   t echnology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½ years 
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3024
¡ information & communication 
technician
¡ computer application assistant
¡ computer Graphic designer
¡ computer Hardware t echnician
¡ desk t op Publisher
¡ computer Network t echnician
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
Certificate for one of the above 
courses.
¡ Welder
¡ metal fabricator
¡ automobilet inker
¡ fitter (General)/ machinist
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
Certificate for one of the above course
or
Passed G.c.E.(o/L) minimum 6 subjects 
including 4 credit passes (should have 
passed mathematics and Science at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in 3 subjects. Priority 
would be given for the students who 
have passed the a/L.
¡ Welder
¡ metal fabricator
¡ automobilet inker
¡ fitter (General) / machinist
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses.
Galle, Ratnapura, 
maradana, Jaffna, 
anuradhapura, 
badulla, matale.
maradana, 
Kurunegala.
maradana
  Etb 11.1 National diploma in   
   information & communication  
   t echnology
   NvQ Level 5
   Weekends / Part time (No. of  
   prescribed hours for NVQ  
   Level 5)
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
 08 Etb 12 National diploma in   
   Weldingtechnology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½ years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
  Etb 12.1 National diploma in   
   Weldingtechnology
   NvQ Level 5
   Weekends / Part time (No. of  
   stranded allocated hours for  
   NVQ Level 5)
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3025
¡ baker
¡ fruit& Vegetable Processor
¡ cook
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above courses
or
Passed mínimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in bio technology/
Science / agriculture.(Preference will 
be given to those who have followed 
G.c.E.(a/L) in bio technology 
Stream)
or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) arts Stream with 
a credit pass for food technology 
or agro technology under Soft 
technology.
¡ baker
¡ fruit& Vegetable Processor
¡ cook
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses
or
Passed mínimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in bio technology/
Science / agriculture. (Preference 
will be given to those who have 
followed G.c.E.(a/L) in bio 
technology Stream)
or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) arts Stream with 
a credit pass for food technology 
or agro technology under Soft 
technology.
Kandy
Kandy
 09 Etb 14 National diploma in   
   foodt echnology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1½ years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes the  
   subjects of analytical chemestry,  
   biotechnology, Nutrition,  
   Quality control, and food
   Safety management   
   for selection, preservation,  
   processing, packaging,  
   distribution, and use of   
   safe food) 
  Eta 20 National diploma in   
   food t echnology
   NvQ Level 5 and 6 combined
   full time day course
   2 ½ years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes the  
   subjects of analytical   
   chemestry, biotechnology,  
   Nutrition, Quality control, and  
   food Safety, management  
   for selection, preservation,  
   processing, packaging,
   distribution, and use of safe  
   food) 
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3026
¡ Jewellary maker
¡ Jewellary Stone Setter
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G.c.E. 
(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
Science / arts.  
¡ Jewellary maker
¡ Jewellary Stone Setter
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses
¡ aluminiumfabricator
¡ machinist
¡ t ool, die & mould maker
¡ Welder
¡ metal fabricator
¡ fitter (General) 
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses ;
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G.c.E. 
(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
mathematics / Science. (Preference 
will be given to those who have 
maradana
maradana
Kandy, maradana
 10 Etb 15 National diploma in 
   Jewellary design &   
   manufacturingt echnology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½  years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes   
   developing design concept, 
   technical drawing, production 
   creation, modern designing, 
   and qualitychecking.)
  Etb 15.1 National diploma in 
   Jewellary design &   
   manufacturing technology
   NvQ Level 5
   Weekends / Part time (No. of  
   stranded allocated hours for  
   NVQ Level 5)
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes 
   developing design concept, 
   technical drawing, production  
   creation, modern designing, 
   and quality checking.)
 11 Etb 16 National diploma in   
   Production technology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½  years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes the 
   technology related to designing 
   of machine components, 
   manufacturing drawings, 
   analyzing of Product’squality, 
   compurter numerical control 
   machines, and engineering  
   materials)
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3027
 followed G.c.E. (a/L) in Engineering 
technology Stream) ;
Or
Should have passed in three (03) 
subjects at G.c.E. (a/L) arts Stream 
with a credit pass for mechanical 
technology under Hard technology.
¡ National Certificate in Engineering 
draughtsmanship
¡ construction craftman (masonary)
¡ construction Site Supervisor
¡ assistant Quantity Surveyor
¡ Plumber
¡  industrial Plumber
¡ building craftsmant echnician.
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses ;
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at 
G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering 
technology /  mathematics / Science. 
(Preference will be given to those 
who have followed G.c.E. (a/L) in 
Engineering technology Stream) ;
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) arts Stream with 
a credit pass for civil technology 
under Hard technology.
¡ National Certificate in Engineering 
draughtsmanship.
¡ construction craftman (masonary)
¡ Wood craftman (building)
¡ construction Site Supervisor
¡ Plumber
¡ industrial Plumber
¡ assistant Quantity Surveyor
¡ building Servicest echnician
Kandy, Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Galle, 
Kegalle, maradana,   
batticaloa,badulla, 
anuradhapura, 
ampara, Jaffna, 
Gampaha, 
Kurunagala, 
balapitiya,  
Kalutara, beliatta,  
Kuliyapitiya
Jaffna, Kurunagala, 
Galle,Warakapola.
 12 Etb 17 National diploma in Quantity  
   Surveying technology
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day course
   1 ½  years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes 
   mathematical processes used 
   in estimating cost of a new 
   building construction,   
   improvement, or reproduction.)
  Etb 17.1 National diploma in Quantity  
   Surveying technology
   NvQ Level 5
   Weekends / Part time (No. of  
   prescribed hours for 
   NVQ Level 5)
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3028
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses.
* Plant Nursery development assistant. 
* field assistant agriculture ;
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses.
Or
Should have passed in six (06) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) including agriculture 
in one (01) sitting with four (04) 
credit passes for any four (04) of the 
following subjects.
first Language, mathematics, Science 
and Social Studies or one (01) of the 
following subjects:
agriculture, Hortioulture, animal 
Husbandry, food technology, 
fresh Water (inland) bio Resource 
technology, oceanic (marine) bio 
Resource technology ;
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) technology/Science 
Streams. (Prefereuce will be given 
to students who have studied 
agriculture in technology Stream) ;
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects  
at  G.c.E. (a/L) with  a  credit 
pass for  agro technology under 
Soft technology or mechanical 
technology under Hard technology.
dambulla, 
Kuliyapitiya
   (this course includes 
   mathematical processes used 
   in estimating cost of a  
   new building construction, 
   improvement, or reproduction.)
 13 Etb 18 National diploma in   
   agricultural Production  
   t echnology
   NvQ Level 5
   full t ime day
   1 ½ years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   *Should have completed the 
    NVQ Level 3 / 4 modules & 
    have passed the assessments 
    before obtaining NVQ 
    Level 5 certificate.
   (this course includes nursery 
   farm, establishment activities, 
   primary processing of livestock, 
   production, agricultural 
   products, and agronomic 
   practices of plantation crops, 
   field crops).
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3029
* Plant Nursery development assistant. 
* field assistant agriculture ;
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certificate for one of the above 
courses.
Or
Should have passed in six (06) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) including agriculture 
in one (01) sitting with four (04) 
credit passes for any four (04) of the 
following subjects.
first Language, mathematics, Science 
and Social Studies or one (01) of the 
following subjects:
agriculture, Hortioulture, animal 
Husbandry, food technology, 
fresh Water (inland) bio Resource 
technology, oceanic (marine) bio 
Resource technology ;
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) technology/Science 
Streams. (Prefereuce will be given 
to students who have studied 
agriculture in technology Stream) ;
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects  
at  G.c.E. (a/L) with  a  credit 
pass for  agro technology under 
Soft technology or mechanical 
technology under Hard technology.
Should have followed a NVQ level 3/4  
Course in relevant field, conducted 
at any of the government approved 
training institute. 
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G.c.E. 
(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
mathematics / Science.(Preference 
will be given to those who have 
followed G.c.E. (a/L) in Engineering 
technology Stream).
dambulla,
Kandy, Ratmalana
  Eta 19 National diploma in   
   agricultural Production  
   t echnology
   NvQ Level 5 and 6 combined
   full t ime day
   2 ½ years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
   (this course includes nursery  
   farm, establishment activities, 
   primary processing of livestock, 
   production, agricultural products, 
   and agronomic practices of 
   plantation crops, field crops). 
 14 ETC 01 National Certificate in Industrial 
   t echnology (civil Engineering)      
   (construction technology -  
   NvQ Level 5)
   full time day - 2 years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3030
Should have followed a NVQ level 3/4  
Course in relevant field, conducted 
at any of the government approved 
training institute. 
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G.c.E. 
(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
mathematics / Science.(Preference 
will be given to those who have 
followed G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering 
technology Stream).
Should have obtain a certificate after 
following a NVQ level 3/4  course 
in relevant field, conducted at any of 
the government approved training 
institute. 
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G.c.E. 
(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
mathematics / Science.(Preference 
will be given to those who have 
followed G.c.E.(a/L) in Engineering 
technology Stream).
Should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in Six (06) subjects 
with mathematics & English in not 
more than two sittings.
and
Should have passed G.c.E.(a/L) with 
3 subjects one of which should be 
accountancy, combined maths, 
business Studies, Economics, 
business Statistics.
Or
Should have followed and passed Ncat  
course conducted at technical 
colleges / colleges of technology 
under this department.
Kandy, Ratmalana
Kandy
ampara, 
anuradhapura, 
badulla, Galle, 
Jaffna, Kandy, 
Kurunagala, 
maradana, 
Ratnapura, 
batticaloa, m atale 
trincomalee, 
Warakapola.
 15 ETC 02 National Certificate in Industrial 
   t echnology (Electrical   
   Engineering)
   (Electrical Technology - NvQ  
   Level 5)
   full time day - 2 years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
 16 ETC 03 National Certificate in Industrial  
   t echnology (mechanical   
   Engineering)
   (Production Technology -  
   NvQ  Level 5)
   full time day - 2 years
   (includes 6 months foundation   
   course)
 
 17 bSa  01 National diploma in    
   accounting
   NvQ Level 5 and 6 combined
   full time day - 2 years
   (this course includes subjects 
   related to accounting, costing, 
   auditing, t axation, management 
   and other related subjects.
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3031
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) Science, commerce, 
arts or technology Stream.
Or
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 
certifícate in the relevant field, after 
completing a course at any vocational 
training institute recognized by the 
government.
Or
Should have obtained the National 
Certificate of Marketing or National 
Certificate of Accounting Technician.
¡ construction cra ftman (masonary)
¡ Wood craftman (building)
¡ construction Site Supervisor
¡ Plumber
¡ industrial Plumber
¡ building Services t echnician 
(Painting)
¡ assistant Quantity Surveyor
¡ draftsman
¡ Electrician
¡ industrial Electrician
Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4  
certificate for one of the above 
courses ;
Or
Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G.c.E. 
(a/L) in Engineering technology/ 
mathematics / Science. (Preference 
will be given to those who have 
followed G.c.E. (a/L) in Engineering 
technology Stream) ;
Or
Should have paesed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) arts Stream with 
a credit pass for civil technology 
under Hard technology.
maradana,
Galle, ampara
 18 Eta 22 National diploma in
   maritime and Logistics
    management
   NvQ Level 5 and 6 combined
   full time day - 2 years
   (this course includes the  
   subjects related to supply chain  
   process that plan, implement 
   and control the efficient, 
   effective flow and storage of
   goods /  services and related 
   information in order to meet 
   customer’s requirements in the 
   maritime and business 
   Environments)
 19 Etb20 National diploma in building  
   Services technology 
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day –1 ½ years 
   (this course includes the subjects 
   related to planing of 
   construction works, managing 
   and organizing sites).
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'16
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2016
3032
Should have obtained NVQ Level 4 
certificate in Advancing Career 
Skills ;
Or
National Certificate of English for 
commerce, industry, and further 
Education. (NcE) ;
Or
National Certificate of Professional 
English. (NcPE) ;
Or
communicative English for Job Seekers.
(cJS) ;
Or
Should have passed in three (03) subjects 
at G.c.E. (a/L) with a credit pass for 
General English.
Kandy, maradana,   
ampara, Jaffna, 
matara.
 20 Etb 19 diploma in English and  
   Education 
   NvQ Level 5
   full time day - 1 year
      Admission Qualifications
    Colleges of
 Serial Course Name of the Course Technology/ Full Time Courses
 No. Code  Technical Age Should be between 17 and 29 years  
   No.  Colleges Part Time Courses
     Age Should be more than 17 Years
12-734
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.