

<!-- page 1 -->

N.B.—Part III   of the Gazette No. 2249 of 08.10.2021 was not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
AtteNtIoN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th November, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd October, 2021.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 192
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"250- 2021 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'10'15                                                    
No. 2,250 - FRID Ay,  OCTOBER   15, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
191 -  B 82277 - 353 (10/2021)
Note .- (i) Akurana Baithuz Zakath  (Incorporation) Bill is  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of 24th September 2021. 
  (ii) Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya   (Incorporation) Bill is  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the            
Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of 24th September 2021.
  (iii) Appropriation  Bill is  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri 
Lanka of 24th September 2021.  

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'10'15
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 15.10.2021
192
miscellaneous  land notices
  Land Commissioner General's No.: - 4/10/67858.  
Provincial Land Commissioner's No : NCP/PLC/
L07/10/04/02/§' n' n.
notIfIcatIon made under   state  land 
regulatIon   no.   21(2)
IT is hereby notified that for the  Commercial  Purpose, 
Mr. Herath  Mudiyanselage Uditha  Priyashantha Bandara 
Hidhagala has requested on lease a state land containing 
in extent about  Hectare 0.1872 out of extent marked Lot                        
No. 01 in  the   Plan  No. 5280 and situated in the  Village of 
Kuda Kalaththewa which  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari 
Division of  No. 277, Nelumkulama  coming within  the area of 
authority of Nuwaragam Palatha  East  Divisional Secretariat 
in the  District of Anuradhapura. 
02. Given below  are  the  boundaries of the   land  requested :-.
On the North by   :  State Land ;
On the East by   :  15 Feet wide  road;
On the South by   :  Road (P. S.);
On the West by  :  Land belonging  to Mr. V . J.
  Siripala.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore the government  has intended 
to lease out  the land  subject  to other  government approved 
conditions.
 (a) Terms of the  lease : Thirty years (30)  (from 05.08.2021  
onwards)
   The Annual rent  of the lease  : 2% of the  Market value 
of the  land  as per valuation  of   the chief valuer for 
the  year  approved by Hon. minister when the annual 
value of the land is less than Rupees five million  
(Rs. 5,000,000) for that year.  4% of  the   Market value 
of the land, as   per valuation  of the  chief valuer  for 
the year approved by Hon.   Minister. When the annual 
Value of the land  is more than  Rupees five  million               
(Rs. 5,000,000) for  that year. This  lease amount  
should  be  revised once in every  five years and 20% 
of the  year  lease amount charged in the  final year of 
preceeding 05 year period  should be added to annual 
lease amount.
    Premium  .- Not charged;
  
 (b) This lessees  must  within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease develop the said  lands in such a manner 
as to  captivate the  mind of the Divisional  Secretary.
 (c) The  lessee must not use this  land for  any  purposes 
other than for  the purpose of commercial activities.
 (d) The lease must  also  be subject  to  the other  special 
conditions  stipulated and  imposed by the  Divisional  
Secretary  and by other  institutions, 
 (e) The building constructed must   be maintained in a  
proper state of repair;
 (f)   Once the  land  is given on lease and  in the event of 
failure on the part  of the  lessees to  substantiate within 
the specified time  frame  the purpose for  which  the  
land  was  obtained  action will be  taken to terminate 
the lease; 
 (g)   No permission will be  granted except the  within  
family transactions will be  granted for the  sub - 
leasing and transfers until the  expiry of  05 years from 
05.08.2021
 (g) Payment  of the lease must  be regularly made  and  if  
defaulted in payment, the agreement  will ipso facto 
lapse,
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing  
within 06 weeks of the  date herein below to the  effect  that  
this  land  must  not be given  on lease, the land  will be leased 
out as requested.
 a. K. N. SewwaNdi amaraSeKera,
  Assistant Land Commissioner For Land
  Commissioner General.
Mihikatha Medura’,Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
‘Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
20th August, 2021
10-171

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'10'15
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 15.10.2021
193
PriNTed aT THe deParTmeNT OF gOVerNmeNT PriNTiNg,  Sri LaNKa.
  Land Commissioner General's No.: - 4/10/66833.  
Provincial Land Commissioner's No : UPLC/L/07/SG/L/27. 
notIfIcatIon  under   state  land 
regulatIon   no.   21(2)
IT is hereby notified that  Part  of Commercial purpose for  
Project to Solar  Power, RR International Investment Holdings 
(pvt) Ltd has requested on lease a state land containing 
in extent about  15 Acers marked as approximate tracing  
No.  MO/SEV/LND/LR/15 drawn by  colonization officer 
situated in the  Village of Punchiwewa in the Grama Niladhari 
Division of  149 G 2, Punchiwawe coming  within  the area of  
authority of Sewanagala Divisional Secretariat in the  District 
of Monaragala.
02. Given below  are  the  boundaries of the   land  requested :-.
On the North by   :  State Land ;
On the East by   :  State Land;
On the South by   :  Reservation  for Road;
On the West by  :  Reservation for Road and  State
   Land.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore the government  has intended 
to lease out  the land  subject  to other  government approved 
conditions.
 (a) Terms of the  lease : Thirty years (30)  (from 06.08.2021  
onwards as  approved by the  Honourable Minister)
 (b)  The Annual rent  of the lease  : 2% of the  Market value 
of the  land  as per valuation  of   the chief valuer for 
the  year  2021 when  the annual value of the land is 
less than Rupees five million  (Rs. 5,000,000) for 
that year  4% of  the  market value of the land, as   per 
valuation  of the  chief valuer  for the year 2021  when 
the annual value of the land  is more than  Rupees 
five  million  (Rs. 5,000,000) for  that year. This  lease 
amount  should  be  revised once in every  five years 
and 20% of the   annual  lease amount charged in the  
final year of the preceeding 05 year period  should be 
added to annual lease amount.
    Premium  .- Not levied;
  
 (c) This lessees  must  within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease develop the said  lands  in such a manner 
as to  captivate the  mind of the Divisional  Secretary.
 (d) The  lessees must not use this  land for  any  purposes 
other than for  the purpose of Solar Power activities.
 (e) The lease must  also  be subject  to  the other  special 
conditions  stipulated and  imposed by the  Divisional  
Secretary  and by other  institutions. 
 (f) The buildings constructed must   be maintained in a  
proper state of repair;
 (g)   Once the  land  is given on lease and  in the event of 
failure on the part  of the  lessees to  substantiate within 
the specified time  frame  the purpose for  which  the  
land  was  obtained  action will be  taken to terminate 
the lease; 
 (h)   No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of  05 years from 06.08.2021;
 (i) Payment  of  the lease must  be regularly made  and  
if  defaulted in payment the agreement  will ipso facto 
lapse,
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing  
within 06 weeks of the  date which this  notice is published in 
the  Gazette  to the  effect  that  this  land  must  not be given  
on lease, the land  will be leased out as requested.
 a. K. N. SewwaNdi ammaraSeKara,
  Assistant Land Commissioner For Land
  Commissioner General.
‘Mihikatha Medura’,Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
 Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
15th October, 2021
10-409