

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Council  Notifications
WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL 
The draft of  the  Co-operative  Employees Commission  Statute  of  Western Province Provincial Council is mentioned below.
KEJITAN LALITH WANIGARATHNE,
Minister of the Western Provincial Roads,
 Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade,
 Housing and Constructions, Estate
Infrastructure Facilities, Industry and
Rural Development.
At the Ministry of Western Provincial Roads, Transport,
Co-operative Development and Trade, Housing
and constructions, Estate Infrastructure Facilities,
Industry and Rural Development,
No. 204, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
26th September, 2018
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG4311 – 307 (11/2018)
wxl 2097$16 – 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 14 jeks nÞod – 2018'11'14
No. 2097/16 – WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
Co-operative Employees Commission Statute of Western Province
Provincial Council
A STATUTE TO ESTABLISH AND INCORPORATE A PROVINCIAL COMMISSION TO BE
KNOWN AS THE WESTERN PROVINCE CO-OPERA TIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION TO
MAKE SPECIAL PROVISION IN RESPECT OF THE EMPLOYEES OF  CO-OPERATIVE
SOCIETIES IN THE WESTERN PROVINCE AND TO PROVIDE  FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTIAL THERETO AND TO ALLOCATE  PROVISIONS TO REPEAL
THE  CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION  STATUTE NO. 01 OF 1994. THIS STATUTE
IS INCONSISTENT WITH THE CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION ACT. NO.12 OF
1972.
Be it enforced by the Provincial Council of the Western Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as Follows.
1. This Statute may be cited as the Co-operative Employees Commission Statute of Western  Province
Provincial Council No. ………… of  2018 and shall come into Operation from the date of assent of the
Governor of Western Province.
PART  I
constitution, powers and functions of the western provincial Co-operative Employees Commission
2. (1) A Western Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission hereinafter cited as ‘‘the commission’’
shall be incorporated hereby.
(2) The Commission by the name asigned to it by Subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.
3. (1) The Commission shall consist of the following three members appointed by the minister.
(a) A retired person of Sri Lanka Administrative Service,
(b) Attorney - at - law of Supreme Court,
(c) A  retired officer at executive level in the State institution or in a State Corporation or a board of
State.
(2) The member appointed under above subssection 1 (a) shall be appointed by the minister as the
chairman of Commission.
(3) The appointments made under above Subsections (1) and (2) shall be published in the Gazette
paper as effective from the date of Oath- taking or affirmation - making at a Court - of - Law.
4. Provided that a person is;
(a) an officer  or employee or former officer or employee of a cooperative society or,
(b) a member of a co-operative society or union or person drawing a salary or wage from other
institution serving on behalf of a cooperative society or,
(c) a member of  Parliament, member of Provincial Council or councilor of a Local Government
Authority or person connected to active politics or,
(d) not a citizen of Sri Lanka or,
Short Title and
date of
operation.
Constitute of the
Commission.
Disqualifications
to become  a
member.
Establishment of
Co-operative
Employer
Commission.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
3A
(e) decided or declared as a mentally instable person under the valid law of Sri Lanka or law operating
in any other country or,
(f) convicted as an offender  of an offence of criminal nature or was convicted so by a Court-of-law
in Sri Lanka or  any other country or,
(g) a member removed from office or a  member  whose membership was annulled as per Section 6 of
this statute,
he shall be disqualified to be appointed or function as a member of the Commission.
5. (1) Each member of the Commission shall hold office for a period of not more than three years  from
the date of his appointment. Further, unless remove from office under Subsection 6(1), shall not
be disqualified to be reappointed.
(2) A member appointed to fill the vacancy created by a member's removal  or resignation from the
office of member, shall hold such office for the remaining period of the official tenure of the
member he/she  replaced.
(3) In the event of a member being unable temporarily to accomplish the duties of his office due to
bad health  or other disability or being away from Sri Lanka, the  minister may appoint a member
to the Commission to act on his behalf.
6. (1) On being dissatisfied as to the modus operandi of any member, the minister may terminate his
office as member.
(2) A member of the commission may at any time resign from his office or chairmanship by way of a
resignation letter sent to the minister and upon conveyance by the minister that the said resignation
has been accepted.
(3) The office of a member, who fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Commission without
formal permission obtained from the minister, will terminate.
7. (1) The person appointed as the chairman of the commission shall preside at all meeting of the
commission at which he is present. In the absence of the chairman for any meeting of the
commission by agreement of the two members present, one of them shall preside at the meeting.
(2) Two members shall constitute the quorum for a meeting of the Commission.
(3) If at any meeting only two members of the Commission are present and such members are divided
in opinion as to the decision to be taken on any question such question shall be referred to a
meeting at which all three members of the Commission are present.
(4) If at any meeting, at which the three members of the Commission are divided in opinion as to the
decision to be given on any question, such question shall be decided according to the opinion of
the majority of members present.
(5) The Commission may decide on a matter not provided with specific provisions by this statute or
any order formulated under it, and the decision taken regarding the said matter shall be conclusive.
(6) Any act or proceeding of the Commission shall not be invalid by reason only of the existence of
a vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of any of its members.
Term of office
of member
Chairman of the
Commission and
maintaining its
proceedings

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
8. The  Chairman and members of the Commission shall be paid such remuneration and such allowances
as may be determined by the Minister, in consultation with the Minister of Finance of the Province.
9. (1) There shall be a Secretary of the Commission and staff to assist him.
(2) The Secretary of the Commission shall be an officer of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
10. (1) The members of the Commission shall on first appoinment take an oath or make an affirmation
before a Judge of Court - of - Law in the form set out in the Schedule No. 01 to this statute.
(2) The Secretary to the Commission and such of the other officers of the Commission, shall , on
first appointment, take an oath or make an affirmation in the form set out in the Schedule No. 02
to this Statute within one month of being appointed to the Commission.
11. Provided that a person having any relationship deemed so by the Commission as the spouse, parents,
children or a family member of a staff member of the Commission, holds an office in any Cooperative
Society, such officer is inappropriate to be appointed to the staff of the Commission.
12. (1) The Commission shall have the following powers : -
(a) To determine all matters relating to methods of recruitment to and conditions of employment
of employees of co-operative societies, and the principles to be followed by such societies in
making appointments and in making promotions from one post in a co-operative society to
another post in the same society, to determine the qualifications necessary for appointment
to any such post.
(b) (i) To conduct examinations for recruitment as employees of co-operative societies of to
appoint boards of examiners for the purpose of conducting such examinations and to
charge fees from candidates presenting themselves for examinations;
(ii) To conduct Efficiency Bar Examinations to measure the performance of employees of co-
operative societies in relation to their promation and appointing boards of examiners on
that behalf and charge fees relevant to it:
(iii) To or ganize and conduct training courses relevant to the subject field of Co-operative
Employees and charge relevant fees;
(c) to fix the scales of salaries to be attached to any such post or posts in any class, to revise
or adjust such scales or salaries from time to time in consultation with the Commissioner
and to establish such consultative machinery as the Commission may deem necessary to
assist it in determining the remuneration and conditions of service of co-operative
employees;
(d) To require co-operative societies to pay salaries in accordance with the salary scale fixed
by the Commission for any post or posts in any class  or grade;
(e) (i) To examine cooperative employees' appeals relating to a decision of a co-operative society;
(ii) To determine the procedure or procedures to be followed by any co-operative society in
exercising its rights of disciplinary action against its employees, to call upon any co-
operative society to complete disciplinary inquiries against its employees within a time
Remuneration
of members
Secretary and
other officers
Taking of
oaths/making
affirmations by
members and
officers of the
commission
Disqualifications
to be appointed
to the staff of the
Commission
Powers of the
Commission

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
5A
stipulated by the commission and to hear appeals arising out of any disciplinary orders
made by any co-operative society;
(f) To call upon any co-operative society to keep updated the prescribed records and
documents relating to employees of that society;
(g) to call upon any co-operative society functioning within the province,
(i) to keep the prescribed name-lists or records relating to employees of that society and to
furnish before the Commission such reports or records when the Commission may require
in respect of any employees of that society;
(ii) to present to any officer who access the office of  co-operative society for the purpose of
examining any books, accounts records or any other documents kept therein and to hand
over to the custody of an officer authorized by the Commission.
(h) To inquire matters relevant to an appeal made  by a co-operative employee to the
Commission or any matter reported to the Commission relating to a co-operative employee
problem, by calling a relevant officer or employee of the co-operative society, or any party
the Commission deems necessary to be called to the inquiry of the appeal.
(i) To call  upon any co-operative society to furnish before a specified date such files, other
documents or information as the Commission may require in respect of any employee of
that society;
(j) To nominate Appeals Inquiry Officers and panels of officers to make such inquiries as are
necessary on appeals that are referred by the Commission to such panel or panels and to
report thereon to the Commission;
(k) To require any co-operative society to carry out such instructions, including instructions
relating to reinstatement, as may be given by the commission in regard to any employees
of such society, where the conduct of the employees has been the subject of an inquiry
and the employees had appealed to the commission against the decision of the society;
(1)(i) To determine the general principals in accordance with which gratuity or other benefits
    may be granted to employees on the termination of their services;
(ii) To call upon the Society to pay any compensation amount prescribed by the
     Commission if there are any outstanding gratuity amount, security amount, salaries or
     due salaries or any benefits payable to them.
(m) (i) Whenever the Commission decides it is inappropriate for an employee to hold certain
position as per rules of procedure formulated under this statute; to call upon the relevant
employee or society to exercise any regulations conforming to that situation;
(ii) If the relevant employee fails to conform to a regulation made under above Sub - Section
(1) by the Commission, to order to the co-operative society to terminate the relevant
employee’s service subsequent to giving him notice for a reasonable time period.
(n) To make regulations relating to appointment, transfer, promotion, disciplinary control and
service termination of employees of a co-operative society and matters incidental thereto.
(2) In the exercise of the powers vested in the Commission by Sub - Section. (1) the
Commission may modify, vary or revise or set aside any decisions or determinations
made by the commission.
13. The expenses of the Commission shall be paid out of the moneys provided for the purpose by
the provincial Council Annual Appropriation Statute and Supplementary Estimates.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
Part  II
CO-OPERATIVE   SOCIETIES   AND   THEIR   EMPLOYEES
14. A Co-operative society which for the time being pays out of its funds the salary and other
emoluments of any employee shall be deemed to be the employer of such employee.
15. Any Co-operative society, and any employee of such cociety, shall be subject to such directions
as may be given by the Commission under this Statute and all decisions of the Commission in the discharge
and exercise of its functions and powers under this statute shall be subject to the provisions of Section 12(2)
and shall be final.
16. All directions given by the Commission in regard to any employee of any Co-operative society,
subject to the provisions of Section 12(2) shall be final and binding upon such emplyee as if such directions
were given by such society.
17. Any direction, order made under Cooperative Employees’ Commission Statute No. 01 of 1994 or
any other written law shall be valid and enforce as a direction, order made under this statute.
18. No persons shall be appointed to any post in a Co-operative society in any district in the
Western Province unless that person has been resident within that District for a period of two years at least;
Provided however that where in the opinion of the Commission, no suitable candidate is available in
any District for any post in any Co-operative society in the District, the Commission may permit that society
to fill that post by appointing a suitable person from candidates of any other district of the Province.
19. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this statute the Commission may with the concurrence
of the Minister and the approval of the Provincial Public Service Commission and with the consent of the
relevant officer may appoint an officer in the Provincial Public Service to any office in the Co-operative
society. Wherein, this Commission holds the power to approve the relevant service conditions for a maximum
of two terms consisting two years per term to an officer of the Provincial Public Service who has been put on
secondment in that manner.
20. Every Co-operative society shall out of its funds pay the salary and other allowances, if any, of
its employees.
21. (1) A Co-operative society shall have the power to transfer any employee of such society from
any one of its work places to any other of its work places, and where such transfer is made
for any reason other than on disciplinary grounds such transfer shall not adversely affect
the emoluments of any such employee.
(2) The commission shall have the power to transfer any employee of a Co-operative society to
another Co-operative society as an employee of the latter society at the joint request of two
employees holding posts of similar status, provided that the concurrece of the respective
employers has been previously obtained.
(3) ( a) On a reasonable request made by an employee of Co-operative of a Co-operative society
within the Western Province to transfer to a Co-operative society of another province,
the Commission may provide its recommendation on the consent of two respective
Co-operative societies to the Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission of the
relevant province.
Co-operative
society to be
considered as
an employer
Co-operative
societies and their
employees to be
subject to direction
of the Commission.
Directions of
Commission to
be binding upon
Co-operative
societies.
Changes that arises
subsequent to this
statute.
Qualifications
relating to
residing.
Secondment of
officers of
Provincial Public
Service.
Salary of employees
of Co-operative
societies.
Transfer of
employees of
Co-operative
societies.

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
7A
(b) Subsequent to considering about the consent of both Co-operative societies and other
required qualifications regarding a transfer request made by an employee of a Co-operative
society of another province through the Co-operative Employees Commission of the
relevant province, such transfer may be approved.
(4) Above Sections (1), (2), (3) will only be relevant to permanent employees of co-operatives
approved by the Commission.
22. No employee of a Co-operative society shall be suspended dismissed or otherwise punished by
any Co-operative society except in accordance with the provisions of this statute or any regulations made
thereunder.
23. (1) A co-operative society shall not require any employee to furnish by way of security an
amount in excess of such sum as the Commission may prescribe.
(2) Any cash security furnished by any employee of a co-operative society shall be invested
in a state bank in the name of the society, and any interest accruing thereon shall be paid
to that employee on his retirement or resignation.
24. (1) Every regulation made under this statute by the Commission and approved by the minister,
subsequent to its pronouncement by way of a Gazette notification, shall be considered as
equally valid as a provision made under this statute and it shall have a legal authority of
its own.
(2) Cooperative societies and their employees shall be bound to accept and follow every
regulation enforced under this statute as a provision made under this statute.
25. Every co-operative society which is an employer and every employee of such society shall
contribute periodically to the Employees Provident Fund and Employee’s Trust Fund such  amounts as may
be reuquired by relevant written law.
26. Eventhough service is obtained prior to or later to a date of effect of this statute, all employees
by which society their service was obtained, shall be considered as employees of that society and employed
in service therein and be faithful to such society.
Part  III
POWERS OF THE COMMISSIONER
27 . (1) The commissioner shall have the power to grade each co-operative society for the purpose
of fixing scales of salaries for posts in co-operative societies and to determine th grades or
classes of employees and the number of employees in each such grade or class of any
co-operative society and vary it as he may deem necessary, from time of time.
(2) No co-operative society shall employ any person in contravention of the determination
made by the commissioner under sub-section (1).
28. The Commission shall with the concurrence of the commissioner deterimine the scales of salary
to be attached to any such post or posts in any class or grade and revise such scales of  salaries from time
to time.
Security
Furnished
Dismissal and
punishment of
employees of
Co-operative
Societies
Provident Fund
and Employees
Trust Fund
Co-operative
employees to be
employees of the
society and not of
the commission.
Commissioner
to grade societies
and determine
staff.
The commission
to secure the
concurrence of
the commissioner
regarding salary
scales etc.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
Part  IV
MISCELLANEOUS
29. No legal proceeding shall be instituted against any individual member of the Commission or the
Secretary of the Commission or an officer of the staff in respect of any act done with bona fide intent or
omitted to be done by him or a decision taken by the Commission as per powers of this statute or any act
carried out or not carried out as per such powers.
30. (1) A co-operative society may in the interests of its efficient operation engage the services
of an expert or any specialist for any defined term, maximum being a period of six months,
on a contractual basis with the prior approval of the commission.
(2) A co-operative society may engage casual or daily-paid employees or employees paid on
a piece rate basis for a maximum period of six months.
(3) Provided, however, that no permanency of tenure of the office shall be granted to any
employee recruited under above (1) and (2) without the concurrence of the commission.
(4) In the event of employing a employee by any cooperative society contrary to provisions
of this statute, any emolumets or allowances, if paid to such employee, shall all be recovered
by Commissioner as a surcharge from the relevant parties responsible for such payment.
31. (1) Any co-operative society or any officer or employee thereof –
(a) Which or who contravenes the provisions of this statute ; or
(b) Which or who willfully neglects or refuse or fails to do any act required by the
Commission to be done, or to furnish any information, required for the purpose of this
statute by the Commission or other duly authorized person ; or
(c) Which or who willfully presents a false quarterly report or furnishes false information;
Shall be guilty of an offence under this statute.
(2) The Director Board of a co-operative society or each individual member thereof or any
officer or employee of a cooperative society, collectively or individually bound to be
liable for such an offence.
(3) Every co-operative society or officer which or who commits any offence referred to in
above sub-section (1) shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be
liable to a fine not less than Fifty Thousand Rupees and not exceeding Hundred Thousand
Rupees or imprisonment of not more than six months or both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Where any offence under this statute is committed by a co-operative society, every
officer of that society shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, unless he proves that
the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence.
(5) On the conviction of any co-operative society or officer or employee for failure to carry
out any such instructions or order given by the Commission, such co-operative society
or officer or employee shall be liable –
(a) To a penalty or imprisonment prescribed under above sub-section (3) or both such
penalty and imprisoment or to pay, in addition to any punishment that may be imposed
on such co-operative society under sub-section (3) a fine of Five Thousand Rupees
for each day on which 
the failure is continued after the given date of conviction
thereof; and
(b) to take action to reinstate in service the said employee in the event of defaulting
instructions made by the Commission ordering reinstating of an employee.
Engagement of
contractual
casual or
daily paid
employees.
Offences and
penalties.
Immunity of
individual
members of the
commission.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
9A
(6) To pay such employee the remuneration which would have been payable to him if he had been in
such service on each such day and on each day of the period commencing on the date on which he should
have been reinstated in service according to the instructions of the Commission and ending on the date of
the conviction of such co-operative society, computed at the rate of salary or wages to which he would have
been entitled if his services had not been terminated. Any sum which a co-operative society is liable to pay
may be recovered on the order of the court by which it was convicted as if it were a fine imposed on it by that
court and the amount so recovered shall be paid to the employee.
32. Every person who, otherwise than in the course of his duty, directly or indirectly by himself or
by any other person, in any manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence any decision of the
Commission or any member thereof or an officer of the staff of the Commission shall be guilty of an offence
and shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than Fifty
Thousand Rupees and not  exceeding Hundred Thousand  Rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months  or to both such fine and such imprisonment.
33. No member of the Commission, nor the Secretary of the Commission, nor any member of the staff
of the Commission, nor any other person shall publish or disclose to any person, otherwise than in the
exercise of his official functions, the contents of any document, communication or information whatsoever
which has come to his notice in the course of his duties.
34. No person shall in any legal proceeding be permitted or compelled to produce or disclose any
communication, written or oral, which has taken place between the Commission or any member or officer
thereof and any co-operative society or any member of the committee of management of such society or
officer thereof in the exercise of, or in connecion with the exercise of any of the functions of the Commission,
unless the Chairman consents in writing to such production or disclosure.
35. The Commission shall not entertain an appeal which relates to an appeal made under the
Industrial Disputes  Act, No. 43 of 1950 or in the event of a matter relevant to this is pending in any other
Court - of- Law.
36. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires:-
"Commissioner" means the commissioner of co-operative Development and Registar of co-
operative societies of the Western Province;
"Co-operative society"means a society, association, board registered under the law relating to
co-operative societies and functioning within the Western Province and the head office of which
is established within the Western Province;
"District" means Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha Districts within the Western Province;
"Employee" means an employee of a co-operative society within the meaning of this statute;
"Minister" means the Provincial minister to whom the subject or function of co-operative
development has been assigned in the Western Province;
"Officer" means Chairman of a society, association or board or Deputy Chairman, Secretary,
Treasurer, or Committee member of a Society, member of Director board or any other person
delegated with power through committee orders or by-laws of the committee to issue directives
on committee affairs;
"Province" means the Western Province.
37. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Interference
with the affairs
of the
Commission
Unauthorized
disclosure of
information
prohibition.
Application of
the Industrial
Disputes Act to
Cooperative
Societies and
their employees.
Interpretation
Sinhala Text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Communication
of the
Commission to
be previledge.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018
Schedule 01
OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF CHAIRMAN/ MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION
I ................................................................................................................... having been appointed the Chairman/
a member of the Co-operative Employees Commission do swear/ solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will,
without fear or favor, affection or ill-will, discharge the function of the office of Chairman/ member of the
Co-operative Employees Commission of Western Province and that I will not, directly or indirectly reveal
any matters relating to such functions to any person otherwise than in the course of duty.
.....................................................
Sworn / Affirmed before me this .......................................... day of 20..............
JUDGE OF THE COURT
Schedule 02
OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF OFFICER OF THE COMMISSION
I ................................................................................................................... having been called upon to exercise
the functions of the Secretary of/an officer of the Co-operative Employees Commission of the Western
Province do swear / solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will not, directly or indirectly, reveal to any person
otherwise than in the course of duty any matter or any part thereof which may come to my knowledge in the
course of my duties as the Secretary / an officer of the co-operative Employees Commission of Western
Province.
.....................................................
Sworn / Affirmed before me this .......................................... day of   20..............
CHAIRMAN
CO-OPERATIVE  EMPLOYEES  COMMISSION
WESTERN  PROVINCE
11-1218
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.