

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
TRUSTS  (AMENDMENT)  ACT,  No.  6  OF  2018
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 28th of March, 2018]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 29, 2018
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018
2—PL 010603—2,977 (01/2018)
Short title.
[Certified on 28th of March, 2018]
L.D.—O. 24/2016
AN ACT TO AMEND THE TRUSTS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 87)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Trusts (Amendment)
Act, No. 6 of 2018.
2. Section 3 of the Trust s Ordinance (Chapter 87)
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of  paragraph ( e) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following
paragraph:—
“(e) “beneficiary” means a person, or a defined or
definitely ascertainable class of persons, for
whose benefit the confidence is accepted;”;
(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph ( o) of
that section, of the following paragraphs:—
“(p) “express trust” means a trust that is created
by the author of the trust generally in the
form of an instrument in writing with certainty
indicating  the intention of the trust, but does
not include a constructive trust or a de facto
trust, whether charitable or not;
(q) “prescribed” means prescribed by regulations
made under this Act.”.
Amendment of
section 3 of
Chapter 87.

<!-- page 3 -->

Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20182
3. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after  section 6 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 6 A and 6B of that enactment:-
6A. (1) The Registrar-General shall prepare
and maintain a register containing such
information as may be  prescribed in respect of
every express trust created in compliance with
section 5.
(2) The trustee of any immovable or
movable property in respect of an express trust,
shall forward to the Registrar-General for the
purpose of subsection (1), all such information
relating to the trust, as may be prescribed.
6B. (1)  The Registrar-General shall, on a
request made by the Financial Intelligence
Unit, or by any other authority with the written
sanction of the Financial Intelligence Unit,
provide to the Financial Intelligence Unit or
such other authority any information relating
to any express trust, kept in the register
maintained under section 6 A.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the
Financial Intelligence Unit shall be the
Financial Intelligence Unit that may be
designated under the Financial Transactions
Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006.”.
4. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 19 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 19 A, 19 B and 19 C of that
enactment:—
Insertion of new
sections 19 A,19B
and 19 C in the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
sections 6
A and
6B in the
principal
enactment.
Duty of the
Registrar-
General to
provide
information
of trusts.
“Registrar-
General to
maintain a
register of
trusts.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018
19A. (1) A trustee shall keep records of all
such information as may be  prescribed, on the
identity of the  following persons at the time of
creation of an express  trust under section 6:—
(a) the trustee himself;
(b) the co-trustees, if any;
(c) the author of the trust;
(d) the beneficiary, to the greatest
extent possible; and
(e) any other person engaged in the
execution of the trust in the capacity
of an agent, a legal representative, a
manager, an investment advisor or a
tax advisor, an accountant or
otherwise.
 (2) The information under subsection (1)
shall be verified and updated every three
months, to the greatest extent possible.
(3) Where an express trust has been created
for the benefit of a class of persons, all such
information as may be prescribed, on the
identity of every person belonging to such class
of persons, to the greatest extent possible, shall
be kept in record under subsection (1).
(4) Where an express trust has been created
for the benefit of a person other than a natural
person, the information on the identity of the
natural person who is the beneficial owner of
the trust, shall be kept in record under
subsection (1).
“Trustee to
keep updated
information
on identity in
record.

<!-- page 5 -->

Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20184
(5) A trustee shall maintain records of
information of any person referred to in
subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4), at least for a
period of six years from the date on which such
person’s involvement with the trust ceases to
exist.
(6) For the purposes of this section,
“beneficial owner” means a natural person or
persons who ultimately own the benefits of an
express trust or control the trust property or the
person or persons on whose behalf an express
trust is being created and includes the person
or persons who exercise ultimate effective
control over a person or a body of persons,
whether incorporated or unincorporated.
19B. (1) (a) A trustee and a co-trustee, if any,
of an express trust  shall provide to any relevant
authority, any information in the record
maintained under section 19 A,  in respect of
any person referred to in that section  whenever
such trustee is required to provide such
information by such authority.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph ( a), the
“relevant authority” means –
(i) any public authority assigned with
the responsibility of preventing
money laundering and suppression
of terrorist financing; or
(ii) any authority that performs the
function of investigating and
prosecuting money laundering and
terrorist financing associated
offences and seizing or freezing and
confiscating assets relating to such
offences.
Trustee to
provide
updated
information
of identity to
relevant
authorities.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018
Penalty for
contravention
of  sections
6
A, 19, 19 A
and 19 B.
(2) (a) A trustee of an express trust shall,
when entering into a continuing business
relationship or conducting any transaction or
carrying out any occasional transaction,
exceeding a financial limit as may be
prescribed, with any institution carrying out
financial business or designated non-finance
business, provide updated information on the
identity of any person referred to in section
19A or of the trust property which is subject to
the business relationship, as is required by such
institution.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph ( a),
the expressions “designated non-finance
business”,  “finance business” and “occasional
transaction’’, shall have the same meanings as
in the Financial Transactions Reporting
Act, No. 6 of 2006.
19C. A trustee who acts in contravention of
the provisions of sections 6 A, 19, 19A and 19B
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and
shall, on conviction by a Magistrate, be liable
to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.”.
5. Section 72 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “by his discharge
from his office.”, of the words and figure “by his discharge
from his office or on such trustee being convicted of an
offence under section 19
C.”.
6. Section 75 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “or accepts an inconsistent trust,”, of the words
and figure “or accepts an inconsistent trust, or is convicted
of an offence under section 19 C,”.
Amendment of
section 72 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 75 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20186
7. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 115 of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 115
A of that enactment:-
115A. (1) The Minister may make regulations
in respect of all matters required by this Act to
be prescribed or in respect of which regulations
are authorized by this Act to be made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister
under subsection (1) shall be published in the
Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date
as may be specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister
shall, as soon as convenient, be brought before
Parliament for approval.  Every regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to
be rescinded from the date of disapproval but
without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any
regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.”.
8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Insertion of new
section 115
A in
the principal
enactment.
“Regulations.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Trusts (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2018
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.