

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
533
533
wxl 1"909 - 2015 wfm%a,a ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'04'02
No. 1,909 – THURSDAY , APRIL 02, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 536
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 538
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th April, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th April,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,908 of 27.03.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
534
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
535
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) D isqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
536
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
for Mawanella Hospital Division General, District Secretariat,
Kegalle.
04–112
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MONARAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
537
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Monaragala Katharagama Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Marriages (General) of General, District Secretariat,
Katharagama Division Monaragala.
04–110
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th March, 2015.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
538
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Panadura Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Thotawatta Werawatta Area of General, District Secretariat,
Kalutara and Panadura Thotamuna Kalutara.
Division
04–111
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
ASSISTANT  DIRECTOR  (DEPARTMENTAL)
OFFICERS  OF  THE  SMALL  ENTERPRISES
DEVELOPMENT  DIVISION  OF  THE  STATE
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  -  2014(2015)
AN examination for the First Efficiency Bar for the officers who
work as Assistant Director (Departmental) in the Small Enterprises
Development Division of the State Ministry of Youth Affairs will be
held in the month of July 2015 in Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on behalf of this Ministry. The applications
are invited according to the following notification.
02. Examination Procedure :
(a) This examination consists of one question paper. The
syllabus relevant to the paper is given below.
(b) The total mark for this subject is 100 and the minimum
pass marks is 40.
(c) This examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
Candidates are not allowed to change the medium applied
for.
(d) Examination fe e.– The candidates appearing for
examination for the first time need not to pay the
examination fees. If it is not for the first time, Rs. 500 will
be charged as the examination fee.
This examination fee should be paid in cash at any Post/Sub Post
Office to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner
General of Examinations. The receipt received in the name of applicant
should be affixed by one margin in the relevant cage of the application.
03. Syllabus relevant to the question paper :
(Time - 03 hours)
(I) Business Management and Development (Subject No. 01)
(i) Entrepreneurship and Economic Development.
(ii) Business Management and Sales, Human, Financial
and Operational Sectors connecting to Business
Management.
(iii) Business Ethics and Social Responsibility.
(iv) Preparation of Capacity Studies and Project
Reports.
04. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared as per the specimen
application given at the end of this notification on a
paper of size A4 using both sides of the paper. It shall be
so prepared that Heading Numbers 01 to 03 appear on
the first page and the remaining on the second page. The
relevant information should be filled correctly by his/her
own handwriting. Applications that do not comply with
the specimen application and that have not been filled
properly will be rejected without notice. Please indicate
the title of the examination appearing in the specimen in
English as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application
forms.
(b) The duly filled applications should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address before 05.05.2015.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
(c) The name of the examination "First Efficiency Bar
Examination for Assistant Director (Departmental)
Officers - 2014(2015)" should be clearly indicated on
the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application. Applications received after the closing date
will be rejected. It would be advisable to keep photocopies
of the application and the receipt with candidate.
(d) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. A
notice shall be published in the newspapers by the
Commissioner General of Examinations as soon as
admission cards are issued to applicants. It is important
to be aware of such notice. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to inform the Department of

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
539
Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. When informing the Department of
Examination, your full name, address, National Identity
Card Number and the name of the examination shall be
indicated. It would be advisable for candidates outside
Colombo to inquire by faxing a letter of request along
with the above details and a fax number of the candidate
to the fax number mentioned in the notification. When
inquiring so, it would be advisable to keep, the photocopy
of the application, photocopy of the receipt relevant to
payment of examination fee, if payment of examination
fee is applicable and the receipt of registration of
application when posting to furnish where it is necessary.
05. Sitting for the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all candidates who have sent their
applications. Candidates should sit for the examinations
at the examination center assigned to them. Candidates
should get their signature on the admission card attested
in advance and surrender it to the supervisor of the
examination hall. Candidates who fail to produce the
admission card will not be permitted to sit for the
examination. The rules and regulations that have to be
followed by the candidate are given in this Gazette
notification.
Note.– Issuing of an admission card to a candidate does
not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. All candidates
are bound to comply with the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
with regard to the conducting of this examination.
Further, candidates will be subjected to the punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violations of these rules and regulations.
(b) Identity of the candidates.– Candidates should prove their
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this propose
any of the following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) Valid passport.
06. "In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English text of this examination notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail".
N
ILANTHI SUGATHADASA,
Secretary,
State Ministry of Youth Affairs.
State Ministry of Youth Affairs,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
02nd April, 2015.
S
pecimen Application Form
For office use only
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
(DEPARTMENTAL) OFFICERS OF THE SMALL ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION OF THE STATE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS - 2014(2015)
Medium in which you sit for
the examination
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(Indicate the initials at the end of the name)
(In English block capital letters)
E. g. :– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. 2.1 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
2.3 Sex :
(Female - 1,  Male - 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
03. Subject offered in the examination :
1. ................................ Subject No.
04. The relevant attempt number :––––––––––––.
05. Examination fee :
(i) Amount which you have paid Rs. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the office at which you have paid :–––––––––.
(iii) Date when you have paid :––––––––––––.
(iv) Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
If you have paid the examination fee, according to paragraph
No. 02 (d) of the Gazette notification, the receipt should be
affixed here. It will be advisable to keep a copy of the receipt
with you.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
540
02. These will be full time courses. Therefore student who are
following full time courses in any university or under the Ministry
of Health and Indigenous Medicine or in any other Government
institute during the five days of the week including Saturday morning
should not apply for this. If anybody so appiles and someone it was
revealed late he or she will be dismissed from the course/post and all
the expenses which were incurred by the Government on behalf of
the trainee should be paid to the Government. If a full time student
of the university or in another Government institute intends to apply
following guidelines should be followed.
2.1 If you had registered in a university or in any other
Government institute for a full time course by the date
24.04.2015 and if you are selected for the student nurses
training your registration for the relevant training or course
should be cancelled before the date of the registration at
the Nurses Training your registration for the relevant
training or course should be cancelled before the data of
the registration at the nurses training school.
2.2 Also if you had registered in any university or for any
other course conducted by the date 24.04.2015 if you had
registered by the date of registration of trainees for the
student nursing training due to any reason his/her
registration should also be cancelled before the date of
registration at the nurses training school.
2.3 If the applicant who have registered for a full time course
under the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine
are selected for the Student Nursing Training they will be
registered for the Student Nursing Training only if they
leave the relevant course after paying back the bonded
sum according to the garments signed relevant to the
training at the time and all the allowances you have
received.
Note :–
1. Even though you have fulfilled the conditions from 2.1 to
2.3 if you have not obtained sufficient Z-score or if you
have not completed any conditions mentioned in this
however you should be aware/informed that you will not
be selected for this courses.
2. You should be further informed that even though you
have obtained sufficient Z-score and have been complete
the other conditions mentioned in this if you have not
mentioned from 2.1 to 2.3 you will not be selected for
these courses.
03. Educational Qualifications :–
(a) Should have passed all the subjects (except the general
knowledge paper) in science stream such as Biology/
Mathematics/Agriculture at G. C. E. (A/L) examination in
one sitting in 2012, 2013 or 2014 ;
And
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in not
more than 02 attempts with six subjects including Credits
I declare that the above information is accurate further. I shall
agree to abide by the rule and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of the Examination on conducting the
examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE  OF  THE  HEAD  OF  THE  DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... who
submits this application, placed his/her signature in my presence
and he/she is qualified to sit for the relevant Efficiency Bar
Examination. Further, I certify that he/she is sitting for this
examination for the first time/paid the examination fee and affixed
the relevant receipt.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Place Official Stamp)
04–198
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY   OF   HEALTH   AND
INDIGENOUS   MEDICINE
Recruitment to the Pupil Nurse Training – 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the applicants who fulfilled
the qualification mentioned in the Nursing Service Minute published
in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1,837/8 dated 19.11.2013 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in order to be recruited
into the pupil nurse training under the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine (Recruitment of the male applicants will be
carried out under the provisions of the Nursing Service minute on the
basis of the requirement that are existed in the institutes under the
Ministry).
01. The number of recruitmetns will be divided in proportion to
the number apply in each year. Then the number prescribed to be
recruited in each year will be divided in proportion to the number of
students who apply from Biology, Mathematics and Agriculture
streams in the relevant year and eligible persons will be selected on
district basis from the applicants who have obtained highest
Z-score.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
541
passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science
and English.
04. Other qualifications :–
(a) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
(b) Should not be below 18 and over 28 years of age as at
24.04.2015.
(c) Height should not be below 4'10" (147.3cm).
(d) Should be unmarried.
(e) Every candidate should be physically fit to serve in any
part of Sri Lanka.
(f) Should have lived in the district from which you are
applying for a period of during three years immediately
prior to the closing date of application which is 24.04.2015
and should have fulfilled at least one of the followings to
prove the residence and the relevant documents should be
presented at the interview :
(I) Should be resided in that district at least 3 years within
05 years prior to 24.04.2015 (for this the Gramaniladari
certificate signed by the Divisional Secretary should
be submitted) ;
(II) Should be obtained the secondary school education
continuously in the relevant district for 5 years. (A
copy of school leaving certificate should be submitted) ;
(III) Should be born in the relevant district. (A copy of
Birth Certificate should be submitted) ;
(IV) Extracts of Register of V oters during last three years
obtain from the District Election Office should be
submitted.
Note.– If any candidate whose father or mother is serving
in a transferable service under the Government,
Provincial Council Service or Co-operation, he/she will
be allowed to select the district as his districts as which
in district mother is born or in which district farther is
born. (Birth Certificate and the documents to prove
their service either mother or father should be submitted.)
05. Method of Application :
(a) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen given in this notification by using both sides
of A4 size paper. This should be prepared as including
the sections from No. 01 to No. 09 in page No. 01 and
No. 10 section should be in page No. 02 and page
No. 03 should be contained with the sections from No.
11 or No. 13.
(b) Duly completed applications should be sent on or before
24.04.2015 by the register post to the "Director (Admin.
01), Ministry of Health and indigenous medicine,
Suwasiripaya, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10" and on the top left corner
of the envelope should be mentioned as "Recruitment
of the Pupil Nurse training in 2014" and resident district.
(c) Applicant's signature should be attested by an officer in
Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Educational
Administrative Service/Public Accountant Service/A
Principle of a Government School/Justice of the peace/
Lawyer or by an Officer who is bearing a government
post and is being paid an annual salary not less than
Rs. 240,360.
(d) Value of Rs. 300 valid stamps should be affixed in the
relevant cage before the signature of the application and
they should be cancelled by placing the signature of the
applicant.
06. Incomplete applications, applications which are not in the
specific format and without stamps or not registered on or before
24.04.2015 will be rejected without any notification and will not be
acknoweldged.
07. Among the applicants those who have fulfilled the above
mentioned qualifications will be called for an interview based on
priority list prepared according to the Z-score. A general interview
will be held by an interview board appointed by the Secretary of
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine and the Interview Board
will check the qualifications mentioned in the Nurse service minute
and this Gazette Notification and physical fitness.
08. Originals and the certified true copies by himself of the below
mentioned documents should be submitted at the interview by the
applicant and the documents which are submitted after the interview
will not be considered :
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) G. C. E. A/L Result Sheet and the originals of Z-score
Result Sheet ;
(c) G . C. E. O/L Result Sheet ;
(d) National Identity Card or Passport or Valid Driving license ;
(e) The original documents in terms of prove the residence as
per above 4(f) ;
(f) An affidavit by Justice of peace in order to prove as a
bachelor or spinster.
09. Training Procedure :
(a) Selected applicants will be admitted to nurse training
schools as pupils nurses and three (03) years training
programme should be followed by them ;
(b) A set of laws that existed in the nursing school will be
provided to these trainees at the Admission for training.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
542
They will be subjected to these laws and to the other laws
that are implemented time to time respectively ;
(c) If he/she fails at the scheduled examinations, if he/she had
not being conducted as a well mannered person or if they
behave unsatisfactorily or if he/she fails to follow the
examination and leave condition or if any detail was
revealed as incorrect mentioned in the application form,
will be terminated from this training without paying any
compensation at any time of the training. The trainers
will not be entitled for any leave during the training period
and equal amount of money will be deducted on during
the training period and equal amount of money will be
deducted on behalf of the absent days during the training.
However 80% attendance will be required for facing to
the examination ;
(d) The allowances will be granted as follows for the trainees’
who are training in a nurse training school :
1. First year :- Rs. 12,920 per month.
2. Second years :- Rs. 13,040 per month.
3. Third years :- Rs. 13,160 per month.
After successful completion of this training at the final
examination. The trainees will be appointed by the
Secretary of Health and Indigenous Medicine as staff
nurse officers Grade 3 as per the  relevant salary scale on
the basis of available vacancies.
(e) If anyone left the training during the training or dismissed
or resigned by the training during the training period the
all the expenses incurred by the Government for the
training should be paid by the relevant trainee to the
Department. If not action will be taken to recover this
amount of money.
10. Terms and Agreements on unmarried status :
(a) All the applicant should be unmarried by the date of
applications and should also be remained as unmarried
during the training period. An affidavit signed by the Justice
of Peace should be forwarded to prove the unmaried status
at the interview ;
(b) All the pupil nurses should be signed an agreement with
Director General of Health Services as to agree that to
complete the training program successfully and to serve
10 years period under the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine or in a hospital under the Provincial
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine. This period
of time will be decided by the Director General of Health
Service time to time.
11. Conditions of recruitment :
(a) The Government is not bound to grant permanent
appointment at the Training. However they will be
considered to be appointed at the relevant post staff nurse
officer Grade III on the basis of the conditions mentioned
in the recruitment procedure and on the basis of available
vacancies in the relevant province.
(b) The post of staff nurse officer Grade III that granted on
the basis of final results in the above mentioned training
will be a pensionable occupation and the contributions
should be made to the widow/widower and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(c) Appointments will be granted to staff Nurse Officer Grade
III after the 03 years probationary period.
12. Service Conditions :
(a) All the trainees should be appeared for a medical test prior
to the training programme ;
(b) Staff Nurse Officer Grade III will be entitled for the salary
scales Rs. 15,620 - 4x240 - 11x320 -20x360 - Rs. 28,500 as
per M. T. 7/2006A of P. A. Circular 6/2006 (iv) and will be
appointed to the post of Staff Nurse Officer Grade III.
(c) All the officers in the nurse service will be subjected to the
provisions of Establishments Code  in the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to the implemented laws
by the Public Service Commission with regard to the
Government Service, to the regulations and orders, for the
provisions of nurse service minute to the Government
Financial Regulations and to the other regulations of the
government, to the circulars, instructions and to the
revisions made upon them frequently.
(d) The information on Education and other qualification
should be entered correctly. If any certificate mentioned
above found as incorrect or fraud document the relevant
appointments will be cancelled and also will be dismissed
by the training or by the post. Such incidents will be
forwarded Criminal Investigation Department to tack legal
actions and their names will be entered into black list that
prevented them for re-employing under the government.
Action will be taken to recover the full amount of money
which incurred by the government for payments and other
expenses by the government during the training period
together with relevant surety mentioned in the surety bond
by him/her.
(e) This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities
within the training schools for the recruited applicants.
(f) During this period no-one is allowed to participate in trade
union actions or serving attached to private services and
they do not have any right thereof. Actions will be taken to
dismissed by the training or another suitable action
according to the rules and regulations if such incident is
revealed.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
543
(g) Decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine will be final and exclusive if any
complicated situation is arisen on the circumstances that
are not covered by this Gazette Notification with regard to
the training programme. The Sinhala Language sentences
will be effective if any differences are originated between
the Sinhala/Tamil and English sentences under this Gazette
Notification.
Dr. D. M. R. B. D
ISANAYAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine.
No. 385, Suwasiripaya,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
28th February, 2014.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
R
ECRUITMENT OF PUPIL NURSES FOR TRAINING – 2015
District
G . C. E. (A/L) subject
G . C. E. (A/L) year passed
Medium
01. ( a) Last Name with initials (In English block letters) :––––––.
(b) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(c) Full Name (English block letters) :–––––––––––.
02. Postal Address (In English) :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent Address (In Sinhala) :
(ii) District (In English) :
(iii) Telephone No. :
Mobile :
Residential :
04. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
05. Age as at 24.04.2015 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. Gender : Male
(Put "3" in the appropriate Box) Female
07. Whether you are a Sri Lankan Citizen : Y es
(Put "3" in the appropriate Box) No
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. Height :
(a) Feet :–––––––––.  Inches :–––––––––.  (b) cm :––––––––.
10. (a) G . C. E. A/L Examination  :
(i) Year :–––––––––––. (ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Z-score :–––––––––––. (iv) Stream  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
only only
01. 03.
02. 04.
(b) G . C. E. O/L Examination :
First Attempt :
(i) Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
only only
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
Second Attempt :
(i) Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
only only
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
11. Have you ever been convicted in any Court for any offence :
Yes
No
If "Yes" provide details :––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
544
12. Declaration/Certification of the applicant :
(a) I hereby state respectively that the information provided
in the application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I know that I will be dismissed if this statement proved
incorrect/false revaled later.
Stamps should be cancelled after affixing stamps to the
value of Rs. 300 and by placing the signature on it.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Certification of the Signature of the Applicant :
I hereby certify that I personally know Mr./Mrs./Miss
................... who submit this application and he/she placed his/her
signature before me on ........./......... 2015.
–––––––––––––,
Attestor signature.
Attestor :
Full name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
04–209
––––––––––––––––––
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA
ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH  SERVICE - 2014(2015)
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned Service will be held in Peradeniya in July
2015. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at 31st December 2014.
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
3. The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examination 1 are stated in the new service minute.
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
4. The prescribed Subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examination I are given below :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Subject Subject Syllabus Duration Aggregate Minimum
No. (hours) Marks marks to
pass the
exam
01 Financial Systems The Financial Regulations of the Government of 02 100 40
Sri Lanka (Except Chapter X)
02 Administration ( a) Office Systems, Office Management and 02 100 40
knowledge on office organization :
(b) The Establishment Code Chapters I, II, III, V ,
VI amended by the Service Procedure of
Public Service Commission and Establishment
Code Chapters VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV ,
XV , XVI, XVII, XVIII, XIX, XXXIII, XXV ,
XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
545
03 Department Animal Act, the Animal Disease Act and related 02 100 40
Regulations Paper I regulations, Departmental Orders and circulars
relevant to Veterinary Surgeon’s Services
04 Department ( a) Dissemination of specimens, laboratory 03 100 40
Regulations, Paper II identification including post - mortem examination.
Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for contagious
and infectious disease, sera logical test.
(b) Techniques and practices of artificial
inseminations, principles relevant to breeding and
rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of chicks
by incubation, animal nutrition food rationing
usage. pasture fodder cultivation preparation of
silages and livestock management.
(c) Milk production, bottling and transportation of
pasteruized milk, bacteria and fat in milk,
separation of cream and processing of butter, ghee
and curd.
(d) Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of
animal in abattoirs, identification of meat.
5. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
“The medium for departmental examinations (including promotional and Efficiency Bar examinations) should be the language in
which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. But the officers who entered the
service without a competitive examination should select either the language in which the officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or
the Official Language.
6. This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English. Permission will not be given to change the medium applied by
the candidate later.
7. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will b e
cancelled.
8. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size paper
using both sides of it. It should be noted that the cages 01 to 08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the other side of the
paper. The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the specimen form and the
incomplete applications forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep a photostat co py of the
application for his use. Further the candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with the specimen application appeared in
the notice. The name of the examination should be written in English too in the applications prepared in Sinhala or Tamil medium.
9. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by rules
and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any of the
rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examination.
Subject Subject Syllabus Duration Aggregate Minimum
No. (hours) Marks marks to
pass the
exam

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
546
10. Applications should be forwarded thorugh the Head of
Department/Institute by registered Post to reach the Director General
of Animal Production and Health, to the address given below on or
before 30th of April 2015. The applications received after the closing
date will be rejected.
The Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
11. A paper notice will be published by the Department of
Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received 2-3 days after the
publication of the notice, it should be informed to the Department of
Examinations as stated in the notice. There, the candidates are
informed to indicate candidate’s full name, address, National Identity
Card Number and the examination applied for. The candidates who
reside outside Colombo should make the inquiry to the fax number
given in this notice stating his/her fax number in the request to obtain
a copy of the admission card. It is useful to keep certified photostat
copies of the application and receipt of the payment and receipt of
the registration in your possession.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have failed
to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above paragraph 11 will
not be considered.
13. Only the National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted for the
examinations conducted by the Department of Examinations in order
to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the
examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this
examination for the first time.
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination : Rs. 1,000
Single subject : Rs. 500
Candidates who have already sat for this examination or the ones
those who have applied previously, are erquired to pay the relevant
fees as indicated above. The above examination fees should be paid
to any post office/sub post office situated in the island to be credited
to Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examination and the receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the
relevant cage in the application. Further it may be useful to keep a
photostat copy of it.
15. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not be
considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
16. If Sinhala/Tamil or English versions of the Gazette notification
are comparative the Sinhala versions will be accepeted.
Secretary,
Ministry of Social Services, Welfare and
Livestock Development.
Ministry of Social Services, Welfare and Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Michael Road,
Colombo 03,
16th March, 2015.
Specimen Application Form
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS - SRI LANKA
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE - (2014/2015)
The name of the examination should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope.
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(Ex. : NIMALSIRI K. A.)
(b) Name denoted by initials (in block letters) :–––––––––.
02. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block letters)
:––––––––––.
03. Sex : Male/Female
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the appropriate number)
04. NIC Number :
05. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph
04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
I. Subject No. Subject ...........................
II. Subject No. Subject ...........................
III. Subject No. Subject ...........................
IV . Subject No. Subject ...........................
06. State whether you have sit for whole or a part of this examination.
If so state the subjects, year and month :––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
547
07. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
08. Name of the designation :––––––––––.
(In block letters)
Name of the department :––––––––––.
(In block letters)
09. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health service :––––––––––.
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am
entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the examination.
10. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health
Forwarded :-
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible
to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications to sit
for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
I also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed examination
fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate’s signature.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department
and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(* May be deleted, fee not been paid)
04–199/1
–––––––––––––––––––––
SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA
ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH  SERVICE - 2014(2015)
IT is hereby notified that the second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the above mentioned service will be held in Peradeniya in July
2015. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at 31st December, 2014.
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
3. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations II are stated in the service minute. Accordingly
Syllabus for the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is given in appendix “A”.
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
4. The prescribed subjects for the efficiency bar examination II are given below.
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service  :
Subject No. Paper Duration (hours) Aggregate Pass marks
01 Part 01 03 100 40
02 Part 02 03 100 40
03 Part 03 - Paper I 03 100 40
04 Part 03 - Paper II 03 100 40
05 Part 03 - Paper III 03 100 40

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
548
06 Part 03 - Paper IV 03 100 40
07 Part 03 - Paper V 03 100 40
08 Part 03 - Paper VI 03 100 40
09 Part 03 - Paper VII 03 100 40
10 Part 03 - Paper VIII 03 100 40
11 Part 03 - Paper IX 03 100 40
12 Part 03 - Paper X 03 100 40
13 Part 03 - Paper XI 03 100 40
Note.– The candidates who sit for 2nd efficiency bar examination should select either part 01 or 02 and two question papers from
the above XI papers in part 03. Candidate should obtain at least 40% marks for each paper.
5. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
"The medium for departmental examinations (including Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the language in
which the officer sat for the competitive examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. But the officers who entered the
service without a competitive examination should select either the language in which the officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or
the Official Language.
6. This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil, English. Permission will not be given to change the medium applied by the
candidate later.
7. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will b e
cancelled.
8. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size paper
using both sides of it. It should be noted that the cages 01 to 08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the other side of the
paper. The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the specimen form and the
incomplete application forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep a photostat cop y of the
application for his use. Further the candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with the specimen application appeared in
the notice. The name of the examination should be written in English too in the applications prepared in Sinhala or Tamil medium.
9. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by rules
and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any of the
rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examination.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of Department/Institute by registered post to reach the Director General
of Animal Production and Health, to the address given below on or before 30th of April, 2015. The applications received after the closing date
will be rejected.
The Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
11. A paper notice will be published by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received 2-3 days after the publication of the notice, it should be informed to the De partment of
Subject No. Paper Duration (hours) Aggregate Pass marks

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
549
Examinations as stated in the notice. There, the candidates are informed
to indicate candidate's full name, Address, National Identity Card
Number and the examination applied for. The candidates who reside
outside Colombo should make the inquiry to the fax number given in
this notice stating his/her fax number in the request to obtain a copy
of the admission card. It is useful to keep certified photostat copies
of the application and receipt of the admission card. It is useful of
the registration in your possession. The claims submitted later by
the candidates who have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in
the above paragrpah II will not be considered.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have failed
to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above paragrpah II will not
be considered.
13. Only the National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted for the
examinations conducted by the Department of Examinations in order
to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the
examination on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this
examination for the first time ;
(b) For each subsequent sitting
For whole examination : Rs. 1,000
Single subject : Rs. 500
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above examination
fees should be paid to any post office/sub post office situated in the
island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt of it should be
affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application. Further it
may be useful to keep a photostat copy of it.
15. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not be
considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
16. If Sinhala/Tamil or English versions of the Gazette notification
are comparative the Sinhala versions will be accepted.
Secretary,
Ministry of Social Services, Welfare and
Livestock Development.
Ministry of Social Services, Welfare and Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
.......... 2015.
Specimen Application Form
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS - SRI LANKA
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE - (2014/2015)
The name of the examination should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope.
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(Ex. : GUNAWARDHANE, M. G . B. S. K.)
(b) Name denoted by initials (in block letters) :–––––––––.
02. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block letters)
:––––––––––.
03. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the appropriate number)
04. NIC Number :
05. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph
04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
I. Subject No. Subject ...........................
II. Subject No. Subject ...........................
III. Subject No. Subject ...........................
IV . Subject No. Subject ...........................
06. State whether you have sit for whole or a part of this examination.
If so state the subjects, year and month :––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
08. Name of the designation :––––––––––.
(In block letters)
Name of the department :––––––––––.
(In block letters)
09. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health service :––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
550
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am
entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the examination.
10. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health
Forwarded :-
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible
to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications to sit
for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
I also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed examination
fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department
and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(* May be deleted, fee not been paid)
Appendix "A"
The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the following
subjects :–
Part I Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2,
8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the syllabus.
The syllabus can be obtained from the Director General
of Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya and the entire Provincial Directors' Offices
of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part II Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:2:1, 10:1:1,
10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 of
the syllabus. The syllabus can be obtained from the
Director General of Department of AP&H, Peradeniya
and all Provincial Directors' office of Department of
Animal Production and Health.
Part III - Paper Paper I - Epdiemiology
Paper II - Livestock Economics
Paper III - Veterinary Public Health
Paper IV - Agriculture Extension
Paper V - Genetics and Breeding
Paper VI - Animal Physiology and
reproduction
Paper VII - Housing for Animals and
Management
Paper VIII- Animal Nutrition
Paper IX - Pasture and Fodder
Paper X - Applied Vet. Microbiology and
Immunology
Paper XI - Applied Medicine, Pathology
and Parasitology
Details can be obtained from the Director General of Department
of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all Provincial
Directors' office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
04–199/2

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
551
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.04.2015
552
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
APRIL 02.04.2015 Thursday — 20.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
10.04.2015 Friday –– 27.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2015 Friday –– 02.04.2015 Thursday 12 noon
24.04.2015 Friday –– 10.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.04.2015 Thursday –– 17.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
MAY 08.05.2015 Friday — 24.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
15.05.2015 Friday –– 30.04.2015 Thursday 12 noon
22.05.2015 Friday –– 08.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
29.05.2015 Friday –– 15.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 05.06.2015 Friday — 22.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
12.06.2015 Friday –– 29.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
19.06.2015 Friday –– 05.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
26.06.2015 Friday –– 12.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.