

<!-- page 1 -->

INTERNATIONAL   SHANTHEE   DHARMA
ORGANISATION (INCORPORATION)
  ACT,  No.  43  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 30th November, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 03, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1International Shanthee Dharma Organisation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999
Short title.
Preamble.
H - 022545
[Certified on 30th November, 1999]
L.D.– O. 24/96.
A N  ACT   TO  INCORPORATE  THE  INTERNATIONAL  SHANTHEE
D HARMA  O RGANISATION
WHEREAS an Organisation called and known as the
“International Shanthee Dharma Organisation” has heretofore
been formed in Colombo for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all matters connected  with the said
organisation, according to the rules agreed to by its members;
AND Whereas the said Organisation has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the International Shanthee
Dharma Organisation (Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
International Shanthee Dharma Organisation (hereinafter
referred to as “the Organisation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of
“International Shanthee Dharma Organisation” and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the same
at its discretion.
3. The general objects of the Corporation shall be -
(a)to promote universal brotherhood amongst all
sections of the people;
(b)to assist in the promotion of racial, religious and
communal harmony, and the eradication of social
disabilities;
Incorporation of
the International
Shanthee Dharma
Organisation.
General objects of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 International Shanthee Dharma Organisation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999
(c)to co-operate with local and foreign organisations
in the pursuit of peace and harmony among the
people;
(d)to promote and encourage the study of all religions
and all systems of philosophy;
(e)to establish, maintain, control and manage,
hospitals, clinics, diagnostic centres, community
halls, and to extend medical relief and aid in any
manner to the needy ;
(f)to train students and other persons for a life of
dedication and service to mankind and for the
propagation of culture ;
(g)to train students in small industries and to help them,
financially or otherwise, to establish themselves as
useful citizens ;
(h)to construct, maintain and administer, orphanages,
children’s parks, cultural centres, schools and
colleges ;
(i)to give aid, by way of scholarships or awards or aid
in cash or in kind, to monks, volunteers and other
persons engaged in the propagation of the objects
of the Corporation ;
(j)to promote, arrange, organise and hold exhibitions,
lectures, seminars, symposia, workshops, classes,
debates, conferences, tours, excursions or any other
activity for the furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation.
(k)to establish and maintain libraries, to subscribe for
and issue, books, journals, souvenirs and periodicals
and such other services as may be deemed desirable
for carrying out the objects of the Corporation ;
(l)to institute and establish, scholarships, awards,
grants and prizes, and to encourage spiritual,
philosophical and cultural studies ;

<!-- page 4 -->

3International Shanthee Dharma Organisation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999
Powers of the
Corporation.
(m) to co-operate and liaise with other associations,
societies or organisations having objects similar to
those of the Corporation ;
(n)to send delegates to religious, philosophical, cultural
or peace conferences in Sri Lanka or abroad ;
(o)generally to do such other things as are or may be
necessary, conducive or incidental, to the attainment
of the objects of the Corporation.
4. The Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this
Act and of any other written law, have the power -
(a)to appoint, remunerate and exercise disciplinary
control over, such officers and servants as may be
necessary for the purposes of the Corporation ;
(b)to receive or collect any aid, grant or gift in cash or
in kind from any person, or body of persons,
corporate or otherwise ;
(c)to establish branch organisations of the Corporation
in foreign countries for the purpose of attaining all
or any of the objects of the Corporation.
(d)to borrow or raise money for the furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation, and to execute any
mortgage or bond to secure the payment of the
money so borrowed or raised ;
(e)to enter into or perform, either directly or through
its officers or servants or agents authorised in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts and
agreements as may be necessary, for the exercise,
discharge and performance of the powers, functions
and duties of the Corporation, or for carrying on the
affairs or for furthering the objects of the
Corporation;
(f)to do all such acts or things as may be necessary for
the attainment of the objects set out in Section 3 of
this Act.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 International Shanthee Dharma Organisation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of  Management consisting of the
office-bearers and such other persons as may be provided for
in such rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection (1) of this section, Venerable Pelpola Vipassi Thero,
the founder of the Organisation shall be the president of the
Corporation.
(3) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of Management of the Organisation holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by votes of at
least two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
such rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
or any other written law, for the admission, withdrawal or
expulsion of members, election of the office bearers and the
Board of Management and otherwise generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the attainment
of its objects including rules providing for the filling of any
vacancy in the office of President of the Corporation. Such
rules when made may, at a like meeting and in like manner be
altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
Administration
of the affairs of
the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Corporation in
hold property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5International Shanthee Dharma Organisation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999
(2) The rules of the Organisation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or any other written law, be deemed to be the rules of the
Corporation made under this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Organisation existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation, and all debts due to, and
subscriptions and contributions payable to, the Organisation
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation, for the purposes
of this Act.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall be kept in the custody
of the President of the Corporation and shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
president and of such number of persons as may be provided
for in the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence, and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
10. (a)  The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(b)  The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(c)  The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means -
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practise as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
Debts due by and
payable
to the
organisation.
Audit and
accounts.
The seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 International Shanthee Dharma Organisation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 43 of 1999
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic, or corporate,
or of any other persons except such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claiming by, from , or under them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 8 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of  the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.