

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2149
2149
wxl 1"632 - 2009 foieïn¾ 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'12'11
No. 1,632 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 11, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1820
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1823
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th December, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
December, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,631 of 04.12.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2150
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2151
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2152
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
RATNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th January, 2010 .
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
11th November, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ratnapura Elapatha Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/ District Secretary/Additional
General) of Navadun Korale Division and Registrar General, District
Births and Deaths of Raddella Division Secretariat, Ratnapura
12–232
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Births and Deaths
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2153
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th January, 2010 .
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
12th November, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Birth and Deaths Medical Registrar District Secretary/Additional
of Beruwala Town in Kalutara District Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Kalutara
12–231
––––––––––––––––
AMENDMENT
Recruitment of Officers to the Posts of Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil) and
(Sinhala/English) in the Labour Tribunals
IT is hereby notified that the date indicated under the Section 08 of the application in the Gazette Notification published on 27.11.2009
in respect of recruitment of officers to the Posts of Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil) and (Sinhala/English) in the Labour Tribunals , should be
amended as "age as at 18.12.2009".
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
26th November, 2009.
12–380
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND  HOME  AFFAIRS
Registrar General's Department
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF GRADE II REGISTRAR OF
THE REGISTRAR SERVICE -– 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts of Grade II Registrar of the Registrar Service in the Registrar General's Department.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.,

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2154
02. Examination.- The Examination will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner General of examinations in March, 2010. The
Public service Commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel the examination.
03. Conditions of Service .- Recruitments will be made to the posts of Registrar, Grade II on the general conditions governing
appointments in the public service and on the following conditions.
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable. The selected candidates will be required to contribute to the W. & Orphan
Children's Fund and must furnish security occasionally decided by the Registrar General. The appointments are subject
to provisions of the Establishments code and Financial Regulations and orders of the Public Service Commission dated
20.02.2009.
(ii) New entrants to the Public Service will be on probation for a period of 03 years.
(iii) Of ficers already in the Public Service will be appointed in an acting capacity for a period of one year.
(iv) All officers who are appointed to this post will have to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within 3 years.
(v) The service of new entrants appointed subject to a probation period will be terminated if they fail to pass the Efficiency
Bar Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment.
(vi) The period of service of Public Officers, appointed in an acting capacity will be extended by one year at the discretion
of the Public Service Commission, if they fail to pass the said Efficiency Bar Test within three years from the date of
appointment. If the officer fails to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within the extended period he will be reverted to
his former post.
(vii) On confirmation in his appointment in the Registrar's Service, an officer selected from the Public Service will cease to be
a member of the former service and will have no right of reversion to that service.
04. Salary Scale.- MN5 – 2006A Rs. 16,720 – 10 x 320 – 11 x 365 – 15 x 450 – Rs. 30,685. P.Ad. C. No. 6/2006(IV).
05. Age limit.- Applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of application.
The upper age limit will not apply to those already in the Public/Provincial Public Service.
06. Educational/professional Qualifications .- Applicants should have the following qualifications on 11.01.2010.
06.1 External Candidates.- Graduates who have obtained a Degree in Law from a recognized University or Attorneys-at-
Law who have passed the final examination of the Law College and have completed all required qualifications to
practice as a Lawyer.
06.2 Internal Candidates :
I. ( a) Officers of Grade III of Registrar's Service of the Registrar General's Department who have been confirmed in
their posts :
(b) Following officers of the Public Management Assistants' Service.
(i) Class I ; or
(ii) Officers of Class II of the Management Assistant's Service who have been confirmed in their appointment
and have completed 08 years of service and are drawing, the third or a higher salary step than that ; or
(iii) Officers of the Management Assistant's Service who have obtained a degree from a recognized University
and have been confirmed in their appointment and have completed not less than 03 years of service.
(c) The officers in Grade III of the Registrar Service who have passed the Second Efficiency Bar Examination and
have completed not less than 08 years of service in that class and 05 years of satisfactory service preceding the
date of callings applications.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2155
06.3 Professional and Other Qualifications :
(a) Proficiency in official language ;
(b) Knowledge of the official works of the Registrar General's Department ;
(c) Knowledge in English.
07. Scheme of Recruitment :
07.1 External Candidates
07.2 Internal Candidates
(a) 75% of the vacancies will be filled from among the candidates under (a) and (b) under 06:1 and 06:2 those qualify
in the competitive examination conducted by the Commissioner General of examinations. 40% of marks should be
obtained for each question paper in order to be eligible to be selected. Those who score highest marks that way will
be summoned for an interview in the descending order of the aggregate of marks. An interview will be held only to
scrutinize the certificates.
07.3 On Seniority and merit :
25% of the existing vacancies will be filled out of the qualified officers as in 06:2(c) on seniority and merit. In case such
qualified offers are no available all vacancies will be filled on the results of the competitive examination. Selection will
be made from among the qualified grade III officers of the Registrar's Service after calling for applications by the
Government Gazette notification/paper advertisement and by a structured interview based on the marking Scheme
approved by the Public Service Commission. This marking Scheme should appear in the notice of calling for applications.
It will be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt with you.
08. Examination Fee.- The fee for the examination is Rs. 350 and this should be paid before the closing date of applications at
a District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue Head 2003-20-13. The receipt should be securely pasted in the relev ant place
of application. The fee is not refundable.
09. Method of application :
(a) The application should be in conformity with the specimen appended to this notice and should be prepared on a paper
sized at using both sides. No. 01 to 07 of the application should be in the first page and the rest overleaf. Heading of the
application should be written in English Block Capitals. The application should be filled by the candidate in his own
hand writing. Applications which are incomplete and not in conformity with the specimen applicaion will be rejected
without notice and it may useful to retain a photocopy of the completed application.
(b) The application should be filled in the language in which the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
(c) The completed applications for the examination should be sent under registered cover to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examination, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 11.01.2010. The words "Recruitment
to the Grade II posts in the Registrar' Service" should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
Note.– Candidates in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the respective Heads
of the their Department/Organization.
(d) Applications which have not been completed in every respect will be rejected. No complains regarding applications lost
or delayed in the post will be entertained.
(e) Receipt of an application will not be acknowledged Commissioner General of Examinations will send the admission
cards by post to the candidates who have duly submitted applications on time. Notice will be published in the
newspapers to inform candidates of that regard. If the admission card is not received even after 02 or 03 days of the
newspapers notice candidates should inform it to the Department of Examinations as setout in that notice. It will be
effective if you make you inquiry with a certified copies of the application and the cash receipt and a fax number in case
the candidates is out of Colombo for sending the admission card.
10. Admission to the Examination Centre :
(i) A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted to sit for the examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2156
(ii) A candidate must sit for the examination at the Examination Hall assigned to him. Every applicant should observe the
general rules and regulations that should be observed by the candidates for examinations.
(iii) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite qualifications
to sit for the examination.
11. Identity of the Candidate.– A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of
the Supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted :
(i) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport issued not more than three years prior to the date of examination.
12. Furnishing False Information  :
(a) If a candidate is found to be ineligibly, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to or during or after
the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a Candidate, who is in the Public Service, is found to be false
with his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any important fact, he will be liable to dismissal from the Public
Service.
(b) The candidates will be subject to rules and regulations of the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to
conducting of the Examination. Candidates violating such rules and regulations will be liable to any punishment
imposed there under by the Commissioner General of Examination.
13. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission :
14. Scheme of Examination :
I. Medium :
(a) Language of Examination : Sinhala/Tamil/English.
(b) Candidates should answer the question papers in one and the same language as indicated in the application.
(c) Candidates are not allowed to change the language indicated in the application.
II. Subject and syllabus :
(a) A written examination with question papers on the following subjects :
Subject Time Marks
(i) Registration of Documents and Tittle Registration 1.30 hrs. 100
(ii) Registration of Marriages, Births and Deaths 1.30 hrs. 100
(iii) Office Management and Institutional affairs 1.00 hr. 100
(iv) Financial Management 1.00 hr. 100
(v) English 1.00 hr. 100
(b) Syllabus :
(1) Registration of Documents :
A question paper to test the candidate's knowledge of the following Ordinances and Acts.
Registration of Documents Ordinance
Notaries Ordinance
Prevention of frauds Ordinance
Stamp duty Act
Power of Attorney Ordinance
Regulations made under these Laws
Tittle Registration Act.
(2) Registration of Marriages, Births and Deaths  :
A question paper to test the candidates knowledge on the following Ordinances and Acts.
Registration of Marriages (General) Ordinance
Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act
Births and Deaths Registration Act
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act
Regulations made under these laws.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2157
(3) Office Management and Institutional affairs :
A question paper designed to test the candidates knowledge in the following subject.
(i) The nature of Public administration.
(ii) Organizational structures :
Principles of good organization ;
Division of work and allocation of task ;
Co-ordination of work ;
Nature of Supervision ; Span of Control ;
Line and Staff relationship ;
Hierarchy of Authority ; Delegation of Authority.
(iii) Administrative Process and Decision making  :
Rational decision making ;
Exercise of discretion ;
Reality and Evaluation judgment.
(iv) Communication :
Flow of information with the organization ;
Importance of information for decision makng ;
Function of communications within the organization ;
Public relations, Press relations, Relations with members of Parliament and Provincial Councils.
(v) Office Systems :
Office procedure ; Principles of office systems ; standing orders ; organization charts ; work charts ;
Written specification and Schedules of procedure for clerical work ; Work study ; Method study ;
Measurement of work ; Measurement of efficiency.
(vi) Records and Filling :
Essentials of a good filling system ; Methods of filing and indexing ; systems of classification ;
Centralized filing ; filling equipment ; Storage of records ; Disposal of valueless documents.
(vii) Form control and form design  :
Purposes of form control and form design - Style, Layout and quality of contents, Form, Size, Quantity
and colour ; Economy in the use of forms.
(viii) Inward and outward mail :
Procedures for handling mail, urgent letters, Confidential letters, Remittance through the post.
(ix) Correspondence :
Control of correspondence, Techniques of correspondence, Form letters, Reports, Parliamentary
questions, Inter-departmental Correspondence, Correspondence with Members of parliament.
(x) Control of works  :
Staff inspections, Reporting systems, Statistical measurement of work performance.
(xi) Control of use of office equipment :
Maintenance and upkeep of photocopying machines and type-writers, Adding and calculating machines,
Time Recording Machines, Telephones etc.
(xii) Office layout and environment :
Maintenance of office premises, office layout and office furniture and office equipment (Control
Procedures for cleanliness) of Security, Lighting Ventilation and safety precaution in office.
(xiii) Functions of the Public Service Commission and the Ministry of Public Administration :
Recruitment to the Public Service, Schemes of recruitment, Minutes on various services, Conditions of
service, Probation, Confirmation, Increments, Promotions, Retirements, Resignations.
(xiv) Job analysis and job Evaluation.
(xv) Salary scales Allowances and the remuneration of works and the office personnel.
(xvi) Rewarding, Position and Grading Classification, Merit rating, Incentive schemes and suggestions schemes.
(xvii) Selection and Interviewing of personnel, Aptitutde tests, Interviewing techniques.
(xviii) Personal Records - History sheets, Appointments and transfers of personnel.
(xix) Staff welfare services, Pensions and gratuities.
(xx) Working hours for different categories of Public employees.
(xxi) Leave in the Public Service including special types of leave-Accident leave, T. B. leave etc.
(xxii) Overtime.
(xxiii) Loans and advances available to public employees.
(xxiv) Security provided by Public Officers.
(xxv) Role of Trade Unions.
(xxvi) Grievances procedure in the Public services.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2158
(4) Financial Management :
A question paper designed to test the candidate's knowledge in the following subjects.
(i) Annual Estimates :
The annual estimates and the budgetary procedures, Supplementary estimates procedure under FR 71,
Control of expenditure, authorization of expenditure and payment.
(ii) Contracts and procurement :
Regulations pertaining to contracts and procurement methods.
(iii) Supplies and Services :
Purchase of supplies (goods) and Services, Procedure of requisitioning and ordering, Settlement of supplies
bills.
(iv) Control of Stores
Systems of estimating supplies
Inventorying
Inspecting, Storage
Issuing and recording of Stores
(v) The role of the Public Accounts Committee, General Treasury, Auditor-General and the Registrar General.
(vi) The votes ledgers, Monthly Summaries of expenditure, Imprests.
(5) English :
A question paper designed to test the candidates ability to -
(i) read and understand legislative enactments that are published in Sri Lanka in the English Language.
(ii) exchange ideas in the English Language.
The candidates who have obtained the highest marks will be called for the interview in the descending order. The purpose of this
interview will be only to scrutinize the educational and other service certificates. No marks will be given at this interview. Those
candidates whose certificates and proved to be genuine and who have obtained the highest marks at the written examination will be
recruited to these posts.
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Colombo 07,
.............2009.
Specimen Application Form
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME AFFAIRS
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF GRADE II REGISTRAR OF THE REGISTRAR SERVICE
(Candidates are not allowed to change the medium of examination indicated in the application)
For official use only
Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3 (Write the relevant letter in the cage)
English - 4
1. (i) Last name with initials (in English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
Ex : Mr./Mrs./Miss. SILV A A.B.
(ii) Names denoted by initials (in English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2159
2. Full Address :
(i) Permanent (in English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
(ii) Official (in English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
(Candidates who are in Public Service/Provincial Pubilc Services must write their official addresses. Any change in address should
be informed immediately.)
(iii) Address to which admission card should be sent (in English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
3. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 11.01.2010 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
(Candidates who are not in the Public Service must attach a certified copy of their birth certificate).
4. Sex : Female - 1 (Write the relevant Number in the cage)
Male - 0
5. Civil Status : Single - 1 (Write the relevant Number in the cage)
Married - 2
6. Candidates who are not public officers must provide the following information :
(i) Qualifications obtained to be eligible to sit this examination under 6:iii (Please attach a true copy of the educational certificate that
qualifies you to sit this examination) :––––––––––.
(ii) The institutions from which those qualifications were obtained :––––––––––.
7. The following information must be provided by those candidates who are public officers :
(a) (i) The qualifications acquired to sit this examination under Section 6:2:(i), (ii) and (iii).
(ii) Particulars of institutions from which such Qualifications were acquired :
Name of Department Position held From To Duration
A (i) Service/post :––––––––––.
(Note : State the post fully and clearly as (G.C.S. Grade I)
(ii) Consolidated salary as at 11.01.2010 :––––––––––.
(iii) T otal period of service under Government as at 11.01.2010 :––––––––––.
8. Carefully paste a part of the cash receipt in a way that it cannot be removed.
For pasting the receipt
9. Certificate of the Candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief all the information given in this form are true and I have affixed cash receipt
No. ..................dated .................... being the payment of the examination fee.
I also agree to be bound by the rules governing examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature before
after the examination, if I am found to be ineligible for this examination and to dismissal from my post without compensation if it
is revealed after the appointment. I further declare that I am subject to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of examination in relation to conduct of the examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'12'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2009
2160
ATTESTATION
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................... who is an officer of my office/and is personally known to me signed before
me on ................ 200.........
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Attesting Officer.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
In case of Government servants, the signature can be attested by the Head of Department of the relevant Staff Officer. In case
of external candidates signature can be attested by any one of the following :
A principal of an approved school, a retired Principal of such school, Justice of the Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-
at-Law, an officer of the public or Local Government Service drawing an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,300 or over a Not ary
Public, a Chief priest, Priest in charge of a religious institution.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT
I certify that Mr./Mrs. ........................... is employed in this Department and that his/her work attendance and conduct  are
satisfactory. He/She fulfils the requirement stated in the relevant notification calling for applications for this examination.  No penalty
whatsoever has been imposed on him/her other than a warning. He/She can/cannot be released from service, if selected.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Name and Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––.
Official Stamp :––––––––––.
12–355
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.