

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
SRI LANKA
Part II of July 18, 2025
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 18.07.2025)
INSTITUTE OF FACILITIES MANAGEMENT          
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka                  
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. K. Kader Masthan, M.P .                       
for  Vanni District
Price : Rs. 72.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
(Private Members’ Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF FACILITIES 
MANAGEMENT SRI LANKA
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
l. This Act may be cited as the Institute of Facilities 
Management Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2025.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this Act, 
such and so many persons as now are enrolled as members of 
the Institute of   Facilities Management Sri Lanka(hereinafter 
referred to as the “Institute”)and shall hereafter be admitted as 
members of the body corporate hereby constituted shall have 
perpetual succession under the name and style of the “Institute 
of Facilities Management Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to 
as the “body corporate”) and by that name may sue and be 
sued in all courts, with full power and authority to have and 
use a common seal and alter the same at its discretion and 
shall have power to do all other matters and things incidental 
or appertaining to a body corporate.
(2) The body corporate shall represent the majority interests 
of the membership of the Institute in the manner provided in 
this Act and in the rules and shall uphold the professional 
standards of the Facilities Management profession.
(3) The ofﬁ cial abbreviation for the body corporate shall 
be IFMSL.
3. The general objectives for which the body corporate is 
constituted are hereby declared to be -
 ( a) to protect and promote the interests, status, welfare, 
rights
 and privileges of the profession and interest of 
the public in relation to the profession of Facilities 
Management;
25
Short title 
General 
Objectives 
of the body 
corporate
Incorporation 
of the Institute 
of Facilities 
Management 
Sri Lanka

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
 ( b) to advise and communicate with public authorities 
on matters relating to Facilities Management;
 ( c) to arbitrate any dispute on Facilities Management 
which may be referred to the body corporate;
 ( d) to organize lectures and discussions and to publish 
books and other materials in order to disseminate 
the knowledge on Facilities Management and related 
subjects;
 ( e) to encourage the study of law and practice relating 
to Facilities Management;
 ( f) to create and offer awards and prizes for achievements 
in the ﬁ eld of Facilities Management;
 ( g) to organize, supervise and control the admission 
to
 membership of the body corporate, to undertake 
and regulate the professional education and training 
of persons desiring to do Facilities Management, 
to prescribe and
 approve courses of studies and 
qualifying examinations for membership of the body 
corporate, to conduct or provide for the conducting 
of such courses and examinations and to collaborate 
with recognized  educational institutions for the 
furtherance of education in  the ﬁ eld of Facilities 
Management;
 ( h) to prescribe the quali ﬁ cations and disqualiﬁ cations 
for membership of the body corporate and the 
standards of professional conduct for members of 
the Institute and to secure adherence thereto.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 4 -->

3Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other 
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, 
perform and execute all such acts as are necessary to achieve 
the objectives of the body corporate including the power -
 ( a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, 
mortgage,
 pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise 
alienate, encumber or  dispose of any immovable 
property for the purpose of the body corporate;
 ( b) to publish journals, monographs, books, periodicals,  
newspaper articles and to release appropriate 
information  through media for disseminating 
information on Facilities Management;
 ( c) to collaborate with, assist, receive assistance from, 
and develop links with, other persons, agencies and 
organizations in Sri Lanka or abroad, having objects 
similar to those of the body corporate;
 ( d) to accept any gift, endowment or bequest and to carry 
out any trusts attached to any such gift, endowment 
or bequest;
 ( e) to appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary 
control  over and dismiss, officers and servants 
required for carrying out of the objects of the body 
corporate and to prescribe their terms and conditions 
of services;
 ( f) to borrow any moneys required for the purposes of 
the body corporate upon such terms and on such 
securities as the body corporate may think ﬁ t;
 ( g) to charge fees for admission of persons to any grade 
of membership and for renewal of such membership;
5
10
15
20
25
Powers and 
duties of the 
body corporate

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
 ( h) to charge fees for the admission of persons to the  
qualifying examinations and the courses of study 
conducted by the body corporate;
 ( i) to invest such moneys of the body corporate as are 
not immediately required for the purposes of the 
body corporate in such manner as it deems ﬁ t, to 
create and administer trusts and to maintain current, 
deposit and savings accounts in any Bank;
 ( j) to appoint Disciplinary Committees to inquire into  
complaints of professional misconduct against 
members of the body corporate;
 ( k) to adopt a professional plan for the body corporate 
and arrangements for implementing the same;
 ( l) to ensure proper management and constitutional 
propriety of the body corporate;
 ( m) to adopt rules from time to time at a general meeting 
of the body corporate and by the requisite majority 
of the  members voting and to make rules for the 
management of the affairs of the body corporate and 
for the accomplishment of its objects; and
 ( n) to do all such lawful things as are incidental or 
conducive to the attainment of the objectives of the 
body corporate.
5. The management, control and administration of the 
affairs of the body corporate shall, subject to the provisions 
of this Act and the rules made under the Act, be vested in the 
General Council (hereinafter referred to as “the Council”) 
consisting of ofﬁ ce bearers and such other members as may 
be elected or appointed in accordance with the rules of the 
body corporate, made under section 21 of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30
General 
Council of the 
body corporate

<!-- page 6 -->

5Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
6. (1) The ﬁ rst Council of the body corporate shall consist 
of the members of the Council of the Institute holding ofﬁ ce 
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(2) The Council shall consist of the President, the Vice 
President, the immediate Past President in case of a successive 
council, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Assistant Secretary, 
the Assistant Treasurer and such  other number of members 
consisting of not less than nine Professional Members 
elected or appointed in accordance with the rules of the body 
corporate.
7. (1) The Council shall maintain a Register of Members 
in which shall be recorded the names of every person who on 
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act had 
been a member of the Institute and every person who thereafter 
shall be
 duly admitted as a member of the body corporate
(2) The Council shall meet and function in accordance with 
the rules of the body corporate
8. The Council may set up Boards and Committees as it 
may think desirable and, subject to the de ﬁ ned powers of 
such Board and Committees, may delegate to them powers 
as it may think ﬁ t.
9. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, eligibility for 
each grade of membership shall be speciﬁ ed in the rules made 
under this Act
(2) The membership shall be comprised of the following 
grades:-
5
10
15
20
25
First Council 
of the body 
corporate
Register of 
Members
Setting up 
Boards and 
Committees
Membership 
of the Institute

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
 ( a) Student;
 ( b) Associate;
 ( c) Member;
 ( d) Fellow; and
 ( e) Honorary Member or Honorary Follow.
10. (1) The grades of membership mentioned under sub 
paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of subsection 9(2) shall be referred 
to as “Professional Members”
(2) Every Professional Member shall be eligible to be 
elected to the Council or any Board of the body corporate and 
shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges.
(3) All members are entitled to receive notices of general 
meetings of the body corporate. However, only Professional 
Members shall have the right to vote.
11. The body corporate, on the advice of the Council, 
may grant membership as an Honorary Member or Honorary 
Fellow to any person, who is not a member of the Institute, 
who in the opinion of the Council has given signi ﬁ cant and 
distinguished service to the Facilities Management profession.
12. (1) Every member of the Institute, who is registered as 
a Fellow shall be entitled to use the abbreviated designation 
“F.IFMSL” after his name.
(2) Every member of the Institute, who is registered as a 
Member shall be entitled to use the abbreviated designation 
“M.IFMSL” after his name.
(3) Every member of the Institute who is registered 
as Associate of the Institute shall be entitled to use the 
abbreviated designation “A.IFMSL” after his name
5
10
15
20
25
Professional 
Members
Abbreviated 
Titles
Honorary 
Membership

<!-- page 8 -->

7Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
13. From time to time, the body corporate as recommended 
by its Council, shall decide on relevant membership criteria 
and membership fees for members in accordance with its rules.
14. All Professional Members shall be entitled to take and 
use the title “Chartered Facility Manager” subject to being 
duly registered as a Chartered Facility Manager in accordance 
with the provisions of this Act.
15. (1) A person who is not registered under this Act as 
a Chartered Facility Manager shall not be entitled to use the 
said title, nor maintain any action in a court of law for the 
recovery of any fees for professional services rendered by 
him as a Chartered Facility Manager.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, all Chartered 
Facility Managers shall be entitled to use the abbreviation 
of “C.FM.”, after his name to indicate that he or she is a 
Chartered Facility Manager.
16. The Council shall prescribe the application forms 
for registration as a Chartered Facility Manager and the fees 
payable, in respect of such registration, and the renewal of 
such registration.
17. (1) No person shall be registered as a Chartered 
Facility Manager unless he or she is a Professional Member 
of the Institute.
(2) No person shall be entitled to be registered as a 
Chartered Facility Manager -
 ( a) if he has not attained the age of twenty one years;
 ( b) if he is not a citizen of Sri Lanka;
5
10
15
20
25
Membership 
criteria
Use of 
the Title 
Chartered 
Facility 
Manager
Chartered 
Facility 
Manager
Application 
fee for 
registration of 
a Chartered 
Facility 
Manager
General 
disqualiﬁ 
cations of a 
Chartered 
Facility 
Manager

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
 ( c) if  the has been adjudged by a competent court to be 
of unsound mind;
 ( d) if having been adjudged an insolvent or bankrupt by 
a competent court; or
 (e) if he has been convicted by a competent court,     
whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere for any offence 
involving  moral turpitude punishable with 
imprisonment or similar  punishment and has not 
been granted a pardon.
18. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 8, there shall 
be established a “Membership Affairs Board” for the purpose 
of the body corporate.
(2) The Membership Affairs Board shall consist of -
 ( a) a past President of the Institute elected at an
 Annual 
General Meeting or at an Extraordinary  General 
Meeting of the body incorporate, who  shall be the 
Chairman of the Board; and
 (b) three senior Professional members of the  Institute; 
nominated by the Council.
 19. The Chairman and the members nominated or elected, 
as the case may be, shall hold ofﬁ ce for a term of one (01) year 
and shall be eligible for re-election or re-nomination after the 
expiration of one year when such Chairman or member, as 
the case may be, has ceased to hold ofﬁ ce on the Membership 
Affairs Board.
20. The Chairman of the Membership Affairs Board shall 
preside at every meeting of such Board at which he is present, 
whereas in the absence of the Chairman at any meeting of 
the Board, any member elected by the members present shall 
preside at such meeting.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Membership 
Affairs 
Board and its 
constitution
Term of 
ofﬁ ce of the 
Membership 
Affairs Board
Meetings 
of the 
Membership 
Affairs Board

<!-- page 10 -->

9Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
2l. (l) The Council shall appoint a Registrar of the 
Membership Affairs Board who shall also be the Secretary 
to the Board.
(2) The Registrar shall keep minutes of the proceedings of 
meetings of the Board.
22. (l) A member of the Membership Affairs Board shall 
vacate office by reason of absence from three consecutive 
meetings of the Board or by absence from Sri Lanka for a 
period exceeding six months or by resignation tendered to 
the Registrar
(2) In the event of death or vacation of ofﬁ ce by a member 
of the Board, whether elected or nominated, as the case may 
be, another person shall be elected or nominated, in place of 
such member, and shall hold ofﬁ ce for the unexpired part of 
the term of ofﬁ ce of such member.
23. (1) The Council shall decide on r disqualiﬁ cations of 
members of the Membership Affairs Board.
(2) The Council shall have the power to remove any 
member from the Membership Affairs Board.
(3) Subject to the provisions herein contained, the 
Membership Affairs Board may regulate its own procedure 
with respect to its meetings and the transaction of business 
at such meetings.
24. The functions of the Membership Affairs Board shall 
be to -
 ( a) register as Chartered Facility Managers such 
Professional
 Members quali ﬁ ed under this Act-to 
be so registered;
 ( b) to suspend, cancel or restore such registration, in  
accordance with the provisions of this Act;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Registrar / 
Secretary 
of the 
Membership 
Affairs Board
Vacation of 
ofﬁ ce from 
Membership 
Affairs Board
Disquliﬁ cations 
of members 
from 
Membership 
Affairs Board
Functions 
of the 
Membership 
Affairs Board

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
 ( c) to maintain and publish a register of Chartered 
Facility Managers.
25. (l) The Registrar shall, subject to the directions of the 
Membership Affairs Board prepare, not later than six months 
from the date of the ﬁ rst meeting of the Board, a Register of 
Chartered Facility Managers.
(2)The Board shall cause copies of the register so prepared 
to be published in the Gazette not later than one year after the 
ﬁ rst meeting of the Board, and annually thereafter.
(3) In any legal proceedings, whether criminal or civil -
 ( a) any extract from, or a copy of a register stating 
whether or not the name of any person has been 
registered as a Chartered Facility Manager as the 
case may be; or
 ( b) a certi ﬁ cate issued under the hand of the Registrar
 
stating whether or not the name of any person has 
been registered as a Chartered Facility Manager, 
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the facts set out therein 
and shall be admissible as evidence without further proof.
26. (1) The Council shall prescribe the application forms 
for registration as a Chartered Facility Manager and the fees 
payable, in respect of such registration, and the renewal of 
such registration.
(2) Every fee prescribed under the preceding provisions 
shall be payable to the body corporate. All sums of 
money required to defray any expenditure incurred by the 
Membership Affairs Board in the exercise, discharge and 
performance of its powers, functions and duties under this 
Act shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
Register of 
Chartered 
Facility 
Manager
Registration 
of Chartered 
Facility 
Managers
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 12 -->

11Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
(3) The Membership Affairs Board shall take a decision 
on any application for registration within a period of not more 
than one month of the receipt of such application and shall 
within one month of its decision notify the applicant of its 
decision and reasons therefore.
27. Subject to the approval of the Council, the Membership 
Affairs Board shall have power to remove the name of any 
person from the appropriate register-
 ( a) if such person ceases to possess the quali ﬁ cation 
which
 entitled him for registration; or
 ( b) if such person become subject to any disqualiﬁ cation 
mentioned in subsection 17(2); or
 ( c) if the registration of such person has been procured 
by fraud or misrepresentation; or
 ( d) if such person, being a member of the body corporate, 
has been removed from membership under the 
provisions of the rules of the body corporate.
28. (1)  It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from 
time to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not 
less than two- thirds of the Professional Members present and 
voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions 
of this Act, and any other written law for all or any of the 
following matters:-
 ( a) classi ﬁ cation of membership, fees payable by each 
grade
 of members and procedure to be followed in 
the admission, withdrawal, expulsion or resignation 
of members;
 ( b) constitution and election of the Council, terms of 
ofﬁ ce, resignation or removal from ofﬁ ce or vacation 
of ofﬁ ce of the ofﬁ ce bearers, and powers, duties and 
functions of the Council;
Powers to 
remove names 
from the 
register
Power to make 
rules
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
 ( c) powers, duties and functions of the officers, 
agents and  employees of the body corporate and 
their appointment,  remuneration, dismissal and 
termination of ofﬁ ce;
 ( d) the procedure to be observed for the summoning and 
holding meetings of the Institute and the Council and 
any sub-committee thereof, including the quorum 
therefore and the conduct of business thereat;
 ( e) quali ﬁ cation and disqualiﬁ cation for membership in 
the body corporate and in the Council;
 ( f) Code of Professional Conduct for the members of 
the body corporate;
 ( g) administration and management of the property of 
the body corporate and generally for management 
of the
 affairs of the body corporate;
 ( h) enter into any contract or agreement and negotiate 
any business with individual or organization;
 ( i) borrow money, mortgage or charge the undertaking 
and property of the body corporate.
(2) Every member of the body corporate shall, upon the 
coming into operation of this Act, be subject to the rules to 
be made from time to time by the body corporate.
(3) The rules adopted at a General Meeting, immediately 
after coming into operation of this Act, shall be deemed 
to have been made under subsection (1) and shall, subject 
to subsection (4), be for all purposes the rules of the body 
corporate.
(4) The rules may be altered, added to, amended or 
rescinded at a general meeting of the body corporate by the 
requisite majority of the members voting in accordance with 
subsection (1).
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 14 -->

13Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
(5) The rules made under subsection (l)shall be published 
in the Gazette within three months upon making such rules 
and shall come into effect on the date thereof.
29. All property, movable and immovable, acquired 
or held by the body corporate and all moneys paid to or 
received by the body corporate under this Act shall be held, 
used and applied by the body corporate hereby constituted in 
accordance with the rules of the body corporate.
30. (1) The body corporate shall have its own fund.
(2) All moneys received hitherto or hereafter by way of 
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions and contributions, by 
and on account of the body corporate shall be deposited to 
the credit of the body corporate in one or more banks as the 
Council shall determine to the credit of the body corporate.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund all such sums of 
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by 
the body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge 
of its powers duties and functions,
31. (1) The ﬁ nancial year of the body corporate shall be 
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper books of account 
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities 
and other transactions of the body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be examined 
and audited by a qualiﬁ ed auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualiﬁ ed auditor” means-
 ( a) an individual who being a member of the Institute 
of
 Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Act, No. 23 
of 1959 or of any other Institute established by law, 
possesses a certiﬁ cate to practice as an Accountant 
issued by the Council of such Institute; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Property of the 
body corporate
Funds of the 
body corporate
Accounts and 
auditing

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
 ( b) a ﬁ rm of Accountants, of which each of the resident 
partners’ is a member of the institute of Chartered  
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other institute  
established by law, and possesses a certi ﬁ cate to 
practice as an Accountant issued by the Council of 
such Institute.
32. The Annual Report of the Council shall include the 
Financial statements and accounts, the balance sheet and the 
auditor’s report prepared for a period of twelve (12) months 
commencing on the ﬁ rst day of April each year and ending 
on the thirty ﬁ rst day of March of the following year.
33. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on the 
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be 
paid or discharged by the body corporate hereby constituted 
and all debts due to, and subscriptions and fees payable to 
the Institute on that day, shall be paid to the body corporate 
for the purposes of this Act.
34 .The Seal of the body corporate shall not be af ﬁ xed 
to any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of 
the Secretary or a member of the council who may be duly 
authorized by the council and another member of the council 
and who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of 
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the 
signing of any person as a witness.
35. (1) No civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted-
 ( a) against the body corporate for any lawful act which
 
in good faith is done or purported to be done by the 
body corporate under this Act; or
5
10
15
20
25
Debts due by 
and payable 
to the body 
corporate
Protection 
for acts done 
under this 
Act or under 
the direction 
of the body 
corporate
Seal of the 
body corporate
Annual Report

<!-- page 16 -->

15Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
 ( b) against any member, of ﬁ cer, servant or agent body 
corporate for any act which in good faith is done  
or purported to be done by such member, of ﬁ cer, 
servant or agent under this Act or on the directions 
of the Council, as the case may be.
(2) Any expenses incurred by any person speci ﬁ ed in 
subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against 
such person before any Court for any act done under this Act 
or on the direction of the body corporate shall if the Court 
determines that such act was done in good faith be paid out 
of the funds of the body corporate.
36. In this Act -
“IFMSL” means, The Institute of Facilities 
Management of Sri Lanka, a professional Body 
established in Sri Lanka;
“Membership” means, Members of IFMSL in 
different categories in accordance with the 
criteria speciﬁ ed in this Act;
“General Meeting” means, a meeting of Members 
of the body corporate convened and held in 
accordance with the rules of the body corporate;
“rules” means, the rules of IFMSL made from time 
to time by the body corporate in accordance 
with subsection 28(l) of this Act;
“Professional Member” means, the person for the 
time being having membership of the Institute 
as a Fellow or Member who also shall be 
referred to as a Chartered;
5
10
15
20
25
Interpretation

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
“Facility Manager” upon being registered in 
accordance with the provisions of section 9 
of the Act;
“General Council” also known as the “Council” 
means, the body of of ﬁ ce bearers elected or 
the management, control and administration of 
the body corporate subject to the provisions of 
this Act and the rules made there under; and
“Registrar” means the Professional Member 
appointed by the Council as the Registrar / 
Secretary of the Membership Affairs Board.
37. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect 
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
 corporate.
38. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency
Savings of the 
rights of the 
Republic
5
10
15

<!-- page 18 -->

17Institute of Facilities Management Sri Lanka 
(Incorporation)
Department of Government Printing