

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 280]
————————
Presented by Hon. (Mrs.) Anoma Gamage M. P. on 19th December, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on December 09, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
DAYA SARANA DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
 (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Daya Sarana Development Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
2—PL 007773—  75 (11/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DAYA  SARANA DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Daya  Sarana Development Foundation”  has been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to the members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Daya  Sarana
Development Foundation  (Incorporation) Act,
No.        of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Daya  Sarana Development Foundation (hereinafter referred
to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
now are members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”)  with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “
Daya  Sarana Development Foundation ”,
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of Daya
Sarana
Development
Foundation
.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to promote religious harmony, mutual
understanding, spiritual development , goodwill
and friendship among the youth in the area through
religious , cultural, educational and economic
interaction;
(b) to protect, support and ensure welfare, interests,
safety, integrity and status of people in the area and
to safeguard their rights and privileges;
(c) to provide for the physical welfare and personal
development of teenagers through youth
development centers including gumasiums;
(d) to provide additional educational support by giving
necessary training in various fields which will
enhance their personal qualification levels in order
to meet the competition and necessary requirements
in finding employment;
(e) to hold and conduct periodical technical training
camps for the youth to develop their skills with the
ultimate aim of projecting them towards finding
suitable employment;
(f) to establish carpentry and masonry and any other
suitable vocational training school in central towns
and the like with a view to educate and train youth
for a vocation;
(g) to establish motor mechanism training centers
(Garages) in the area in order to train the youth in
motor vehicle repair trade and arrange periodical
lectures conducted by professionals in the trade;
(h) to liaise with the Foreign Employemtn Bureau under
the Central Government to facilitate applications
from eligible youth in the area and recommend them
for suitable foreign job opportunities;
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(i) to conduct evening and week-end classes to uplift
the knowledge and spoken ability of rural youth in
the international language (English) which is a
necessity in getting employment;
(j) to set-up an Employment Bank which will collect
data of youth in the area together with their
educational qualifications in order to find suitable
employment in keeping with their educational
standards, capabilities and experience;
(k) to encourage, advice, aid and assist youth
financially and otherwise to develop their personal
skills for self employment and also find markets for
products of those self-employed persons;
(l) to undertake feasibility studies in the agricultural,
industrual, technical and other allied fields and to
promote the general economic and social welfare
of the people of the area;
(m) to aid and assist youth to commence and operate
cottage industries for self employment with a view
to uplift their living standards;
(n) to provide agricultural equipment/machinery for
youth to develop and facilitate agricultural and
industrial project in the area.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power including
the following powers to do, perform and execute all such
acts, matters and things whatsoever as are necessary or
desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation or any one of them:—
(a) to procure the Corporation to be registered,
incorporated or otherwise empowered or represented
or to open liaison offices in any country or place
outside the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka;
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) to receive or collect grant, gifts, donations, subsidies,
endowments and subscriptions whether in cash or
in material from donors in Sri Lanka or elsewhere;
(c)  to collect necessary funds for the achievement of
the objectives from well wishers by way of
donations, variety shows, Non-Governmental
Organizations and by other means;
(d) to take responsible, just and legitimate steps to
remove obstacles to the attainment of the above
objects;
(e) to purchase, take on lease or exchange, hire or
otherwise acquire any movable property and any
rights, privileges necessary or expendient for
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and to
construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
erections required for the work of the Corporation;
(f) to receive, purchase, sell or acquire all forms of
properties both movable or immovable, shares in
commercial, industrial and banking enterprises and
to accept property bequeathed by deed, last will or
codicil;
(g) to collaborate with, assist and receive assistance from
other persons and or organizations engaged in
similar activities, whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere;
(h) to maintain liaison and affiliation with other related
organizations and to enter into agreement with
persons or organizations in Sri Lanka or elsewhere
in pursuance of the vision and objectives of the
Corporation;
(i) to enter in to any contract or agreement with any
person, government, organization, company or
institution whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere;

<!-- page 6 -->

5Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(j) to open and maintain current, saving and deposit
accounts with any bank or other similar institutions;
(k) to borrow moneys for the purpose of the Corporation
on such terms and conditions and with or without
security as may be determined from time to time;
(l) to make, repeal, alter or amend Rules and
Regulations defining the manner of management
of the corporation and all necessary-by-laws or
ordinance for the regulations and conduct of its
affairs and the various branches of its activities;
(m) in general to undertake such other lawful things
from time to time as are incidental or conductive
and shall be deemed necessary for the promotion of
the ideas and object of the Corporation;
(n) to invest the moneys of the Corporation not
immediately required for its purposes in or upon
such investments, securities or property as may be
thought fit subject nevertheless to such conditions
as may for the time being be imposed or required
by law;
(o) to make, draw, accept, discount, negotiate, buy, sell
and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissory
notes and other negotiable or transferable
instruments or securities;
(p) to do all such other acts and things as may be
necessary incidental or beneficial to fulfill and
accomplish the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall be managed by a Committee of Management consisting
of number of members not exceeding fifteen. It shall have a
President, Vice President, administrative Secretary, Treasurer
and such Officers and staff to perform such duties as the
Corporation may determine.
Management
of the
activities of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The Founder Member Mr. Daya Dharmapala Kilittuwa
Gamage, shall be the first President of the Committee of
Management. Any casual vacancy occurring in the
Committee of Management shall be filled by the Committee
itself subject to ratification by the General Body at its very
next meeting. The quorum for a Committee of Management
shall be one third of the Members of the Committee.
(3) The first Committee of  Management of the
Corporation shall be the Committee of Management of the
Foundation holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation to make rules
with regard to the matters listed below for or any of them
from time to time, at any general meeting of the Corporation
and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting to make such rules, as are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act or any other written Law:—
(a) The election, appointment or nomination of
members of the Committee of Management and their
powers and duties and terms of office;
(b) The powers conduct of duties and functions of
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(c) The procedure to be observed at the, summoning
and holding of meeting of the corporation and of
the Committee of Management, the time place,
notice and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
and the general conduct of such meeting;
(d) Qualifications and disqualifications for the
membership of the Board Management of the
Corporation;
(e) Administration, Management and custody of the
assets of the Corporation and maintenance and
auditing of its funds and accounts;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) General administration of the Corporation and
realization of its objects.
(2) Any such rule when made under subsection one (1)
above, may at a like meeting and in like manner be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded.
(3) The rules of the Corporation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written Law, be deemed
to be rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subjected to
the rules of the Corporation for the time being and such
rules when made may at a like meeting be altered, added to,
amended or cancelled.
7. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument, except with the authority of a resolution of
the Committee of Management and shall be authenticated
by the signature of the President and Secretary or some other
two members as may be named for that purpose.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
be paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts
due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
the sums of money granted or donated to the Corporation by
any foreign or local public or private authority or individual,
and all the sums of money received by the Corporation in
the carrying on of its affairs shall be credited to the fund.
(2) The funds of the Corporation which are not
immediately necessary, shall be deposited  in any Bank or
other institution and the proceeds by way of interest on such
deposits shall be utilized for the purposes of the Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
(3) The Committee may exercise all the powers of the
Corporation to borrow money and to mortgage or charge its
undertaking any property or any part thereof as security for
any debt liability or obligation of the Corporation or of any
third party.
(4) All sums of money required to defray any expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in carrying on its affairs or in
the exercise and performance of its functions and duties and
in furtherance of its objects and purposes shall be paid out
of the fund.
(5) The Bank account or Accounts of the Corporation
with any Bank or Banks shall operate and all cheque drawn
signed and endorsed by the President or Vice President or
Secretary of the Committee of Management and the Treasurer
together.
In this preragraph the words “President”, “Secretary”
and “Treasurer” shall include any acting President,
Secretary or Treasurer.
10. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The books of Accounts of the Corporation shall be
kept at the registered office and open to inspection by every
member of the Corporation.
(3) The Corporation shall have its accounts audited each
audit year by any qualified public auditor or auditors to be
nominated at the Annual General Meeting and the auditors
of the corporation shall examine the accounts of the
corporation and furnish a report on the accounts examined
by them and the report shall state :-
(a) whether they have or have not obtained all the
information and explanations required by them and;
Audit and
Accounts.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
(b) whether accounts of the Corporation are properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair view of the
affairs of the Corporation;
(c) the accounts will have its legal validity after
auditing and approval of the Committee of
Management.
In paragraph the word “Qualified Auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, processes a
certificate practice as an Accountant issued by such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other
institute established by Law processes a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such
institute.
11. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate, or any of other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by form, or under
them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Protection of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Daya  Sarana Development Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .