

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
635
635
wxl 1"764 - 2012 cqks ui 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'06'22
No. 1,764 – FRIDAY , JUNE 22, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th June, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th June,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... 636
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 637
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,763 of 15.06.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
636
Appointments, &c., by the Governors
APPOINTMENTS  MADE  BY  HON.  GOVERNOR  IN  THE  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  IN  TERMS  OF
SECTION  32(1)  OF  PART  IV  OF  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  ACT,  No.  42  OF  1987
Serial Name/Service/Class Post appointed/Office Effective Date
No.
01 Mr. R. M. W. S. Samaradiwakara For the Post of Director to the Wayamba Training Institute with  immediate effect in
S. L. A. S. Class I terms of the letter dated 05.01.2012
02 Mr. P. J. R. A. W. C. Ranasinghe For the Post of Deputy Commissioner Co-operative Development in the Department,
S. L. A. S. Class I Co-operative Development North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of
the letter dated 04.01.2012
03 Miss. P. D. S. K. Gunapala For the Post of Assistant Chief Secretary (Training) in the Chief Secretariat, North
S. L. A. S. Class III Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 06.01.2012
04 Miss. H. M. D. S. Wijerathne For the Post of Assistant Commissioner to the Department of Local Government, North
S. L. A. S. Class III Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 04.01.2012
05 Miss. H. S. C. L. Sandarathne For the Post of Assistant Secretary in the Provincial Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
S. L. A. S. Class III Products and Development, Minor Irrigation and Agrarian Development, North Western
Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 04.01.2012
06 Mrs. M. A. M. Piyasena For the Post of Assistant Secretary in the Provincial Public Service Commission, North
S. L. A. S. Class III Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 04.01.2012
07 Mrs. W. M. N. P. Buddhadasa For the Post of Fulltime Acting Assistant Chief Secretary (Establishment) of the post of
S. L. A. S. Class III S. L. A. S. Class II, in the Chief Secretariat, North Western Province with immediate
effect in terms of the letter dated 06.01.2012
08 Mrs. G. G. D. Gunasinghe For the Post of Assistant Chief Secretary (Establishment) in the Chief Secretariat, North
S. L. A. S. Class III Western Province, with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 06.01.2012
09 Mrs. Niluka K. Jayawardhana For the Post of Assistant Commissioner of Lands in the Department of Land
S. L. A. S. Class III Commissioner in the North Western Province, with immediate effect in terms of the
letter dated 04.01.2012
10 Mr. T. B. Wickramasinghe For the Post of Provincial Director in the Department of Textiles in the North Western
S. L. A. S. Class I Province, with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 12.01.2012
11 Mrs. R. M. S. H. Rajapaksha For the Post of Assistant Secretary to the Governor's Office in the North Western
S. L. A. S. Class III Province, with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 23.01.2012
12 Mr. T. B. Wickramasinghe For the post of Commissioner to the Department of Probationary and Childcare Services
S. L. A. S. Class I in the North Western Province, with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated
03.02.2012
13 Mr. M. H. M. Riyaldeen For the Post of Provincial Director in the Department of Textiles in the North Western
S. L. A. S. Class I Province, with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 03.02.2012
14 Mrs. Niluka K. Jayawardhana For the Fulltime Acting Assistant Secretary (S. L. A. S. Class II) to the Ministry of
S. L. A. S. Class III Health, Indigenous Medicine, Sports and Youth Affairs in the North Western Province,
with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 29.03.2012
15 Miss. D. M. A. H. M. D. D. U kuwela For the Post of Assistant Commissioner of Lands in the Department of Land
S. L. A. S. Class III Commissioner in the North Western Porvince, with immediate effect in terms of the
letter dated 29.03.2012
16 Mr. B. M. U. Sarath Kumara For the Post of Acting Accountant to the Department of Agriculture in the North
S. L. Acc. S. Class III Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 13.12.2011
17 Mr. A. M. P. Alahakoon For the Post of Accountant to the Office of Director for Health Service in the North
S. L. Acc. S. Class II Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 13.02.2012
18 Mr. W. A. P. Y . Wijesinghe For the Post of Accountant in the Office of Director of Health, Madampe subject to
S. L. Acc. S. Class III covering duties two days in the Hospital Kuliyapitiya, with immediate effect in terms
of the letter dated 13.02.2012
19 Mr. D. M. K. Dassanayake For the Post of Acting Accountant to the Ministry of Road Development, Electricity,
S. L. Acc. S. Class II Housing and Construction and Fisheries Affairs in the North Western Province in
addition to your regular post with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 29.03.2012

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
637
20 Mrs. W. M. R. C. Kumari For the Post of Accountant in the Municipal Council, Kurunegala with immediate effect
S. L. Acc. S. Class II in terms of the letter dated 10.04.2012
21 Mrs. L. H. M. Jinadari For the Post of Assistant Director of Agriculture in the Zonal Office of Assistant
S. L. Agri. S. Class II/II Director of Agriculture, Dambadeniya, with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 01.03.2012
22 Mrs. G . P. Mahawithanage For the Post of Assistant Director of Agriculture in the Zonal Office of Assistant Director
S. L. Agri. S. Class II/II of Agriculture, Madampe, with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 01.03.2012
23 Mr. G . M. N. Thilakarathne For the Post of Subject Oriented Specialist in the Department of Animal Production and
Sri Lanka Animal Production Service Health, North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated
Class I 01.01.2010
24 Mr. H. M. A. B. Herath For the Post of Assistant Director of Education (Development) in the Office of
S. L. E. A. S. Class III Education, Giriulla with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 11.05.2011
25 Mrs. D. G . Gnamali Diviyagahagedara For the Post of Assistant Director of Education in the Zonal Office of Education,
S. L. E. A. S. Class III Ibbagamuwa with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 31.05.2011
26 Mr. A. R. P. Jayathilaka For the Post of Assistant Director of Education (Education Administration) in the Zonal
S. L. E. A. S. Class III Office of Education, Kurunegala with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated
23.02.2012
27 Mr. J. M. Tikiribanda For the Post of Divisional Director of Education in the Divisional Office of Education,
S. L. E. A. S. Class III Mawathagama with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 23.02.2012.
In terms of the order given by His Excellency the Governor,
N. P. KARIYAW ASAM,
Secretary to His Excellency the Governor (NWP).
Governor's Office (North Western Province),
May, 2012.
06-649
Serial Name/Service/Class Post appointed/Office Effective Date
No.
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  TO
RECRUIT  TO  THE POST  OF  RURAL  DEVELOPMENT
OFFICER  (CLASS  II) I N  THE  NORTH  CENTRAL
PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  SERVICE – 2011(2012)
APPLICATIONS are called from those who are in the Provincial
Public Service residing in the North Central Province having the
following qualifications to be recruited to fill 08 or a near number of
vacancies from the date that is approved to make recruitment in
accordance with the scheme of recruitment and promotion of Rural
Development Officers of the North Central Provincial Public
Service.
1. Salary Scale Relevant to the Post .- MN 5-2006A – Monthly
salary will be Rs. 16,720-11x320- 11x365 -15x450 – Rs. 30,685
while first Efficiency Bar will be before step three of this salary
scale i. e. Rs. 17,680 the second Efficiency Bar will be before step
seven of this salary scale i. e. Rs. 18,960.
2. Service Conditions.- This post is permanent and pensionable.
Paragraph 10-12 of Chapter 11 of the Estabblishment Code are
relevant. If an officer, in permanent and pensionable Public Service,
is selected for this appointment he will be subjected to a
probationary period of one year. In case of an officer who is in the
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
probationary period of the Public Service he will be subjected to a
probationary period of 03 years.
In addition to the regulations mentioned in the scheme of
recruitment and promotion of Rural Development Officers in the
North Central Provincial Public Service, all the officers recruited to
this post are liable to be bound by the regulations of the
Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, departmental regulations, statutes relevant to the post and
regulations and orders issued from time to time by the Government
or the North Central Provincial Council.
Officers recruited are compulsorily bound to serve for 05 years
in whatever part of the authority area of the North Central Provincial
Council and are also subject to internal transfers.
3. Qualifications Needed.-
Educational Qualifications :-
(a) A degree from a recognized university ; or
(b) Passed in 04 subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in
one sitting or (03) subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
under new syllabus in one sitting and having two year

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
638
diploma certificate in social work from Sri Lanka Social
Service College or Community Development Diploma
Certificate from the Sri Lanka University or Agriculture
Diploma Certificate from the Agricultural Training
College ; or
(c) Have at least an uninterrupted experience of 07 years as
a government officer or an officer in a government
corporation, after having passed in four (04) subjects in
one sitting at the G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination
or in three (03) subjects in one sitting at the G. C. E.
(Advanced Level) Examination under the new syllabus ;
or
(d) (i) Senior Course Certificate Examination with credit
passes for four subjects ; or
(ii) Possession of at least a continuous 10 year experience
as a Public Officer or an Officer of a corporation,
after having passed in 06 subjects in not more than
two sittings including 05 subjects in one sitting with
the subjects Sinhala/Tamil Language and Arithmetic/
Mathematics/Applied Mathematics/Commercial
Mathematics with four credit passes at the G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Examination/National General
Certificate Ordinary Level Examination.
General Qualifications :
(i) Should bear an excellent character and be of sound physical
health ;
(ii) Age limit does not apply since those recruited are in
Public Service ;
(iii) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iv) Should be a resident in the North Central Provincial
Council authority area.
4. Mode of Application :
(a) The application must be prepared by the applicant
himself using both sides of A4 paper in accordance with
the specimen application shown at the end of this
notification. The application should be prepared giving
details from No. 01 to 09 on the first page, from No. 10
to 11 on the second page and the balance on the third
page.
(b) The correctly perfected application, with
recommendations of the Head of the Department you
serve and the Secretary of the Ministry, should be sent
under registered cover to reach the address "Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission, North Central
Province Anuradhapura" on or before 23.07.2012. The
phrase, "Limited Competitive Examination to recruit to
the Post of Rural Development Officer (Class II) –
2011(2012)" should be written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope containing the application.
(c) When applications are prepared, relevant details should
be included clearly by the applicants' own handwriting.
Applications, not in conformity with the specimen
application, incomplete, in which correct particulars are
not given, not forwarded before the stipulated date and
which are not sent under registered cover will be rejected
without giving any notice. No complaints made on loss
of applications in transit or delays will be considered, if
may be useful it photostat copies of the applications are
retained with the applicant.
5. Mode of Recruitment :
(i) Competitive examination for this will be held in Sinhala/
Tamil media. Applications should prepared in the medium
the applicant sits the examination. The medium applied
will not be allowed to change later.
(ii) The examination will be held only at Anuradhapura.
(iii) Aptitude – Time 01 hour, marks 100, pass marks 40%
(Through this question paper, it is expected to assess the
candidate's numerical ability, reasoning ability and general
intelligence). Questions involve short answers. Answers
should be supplied to all the questions. Recruitment will
be done from candidates on a priority basis who receive
more than 40 marks for the written question paper.
(iv) On examination of personal files by a committee appointed
by the Commission and on confirmation that the candidate
had served in a Post of a Rural Development Officer in
the Provincial Rural Development Department, a
maximum of 10 marks per 01 mark for each year, will be
given for that period of service.
(v) This examination will be held by the Sri Lanka Examination
Department or the North Central Provincial Public Service
Commission. Admission cards will be issued accordingly.
(vi) No sooner than the admission cards are issued to the
candidates, a newspaper notification to that effect will
be pubilshed by the Sri Lanka Examination Department.
If the admission card is not received even 2 or 3 days
after such publication that fact should be brought to the
notice of the Sri Lanka Examination Department as stated
in the notification. It would be more appropriate if you
send the certified copies of your application and payment
receipt, registration post receipt and if away from
Colombo, a fax number for the admission card to be sent,
to the Sri Lanka Examination Department while retaining
their copies with you.
(vii) Candidates are liable to be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the examination authority
conducting this examination. If such rules and regulations
are violated the decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations will be the final decision and the candidate

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
639
will be subjected to a punishment imposed by the North
Central Provincial Public Service Commission.
(viii) To confirm the identity of candidates only the
identification card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or the valid passport is accepted.
(ix) What should be submitted to the officer in charge of the
examination hall on the commencement day of the
examination is, only the admission card having the attested
signature.
(x) Issuance of an admission card to a candidate is not
considered that he or she is fully qualified to appear for
the examination.
6. Examination Fee.- Rs. 250 should be paid as examination fee.
While stamps or money orders should not be affixed as examination
fee, receipt NC 100 obtained after paying money to any Divisional
Secretary's Office located in the North Central Province shall be
affixed to the application. Under no circumstances that this
examination fee be refunded. It may be useful to retain a photostat
copy of this receipt.
7. General :
(i) According to the rules and regulations of this examination,
if it is revealed that a certain candidate is not eligible, his/
her candidacy at any time before the examination or while
it is being held or after being selected will be cancelled.
(ii) Similarly if it is revealed at anytime that the particulars
given by a candidate who has been selected and has been
appointed, are incorrect, he/she can be dismissed from
public service.
8. Method of Selection :
(i) To pass the above-mentioned written examination, 40%
or more marks should be obtained. In deciding the marks-
priority marks obtained under 5-IV of this notification
are also added to these marks. Interviews will be called
under the provisions of the Public Administration Circular
No. 15/90. Marks will not be given at the interview. It is
held only to get the qualifications confirmed and to assess
the physical fitness of the candidate.
(ii) All the activities with regard to this recruitment will be
done under the approval of the North Central Provincial
Public Service Commission.
S. M. S. T
ENNAKOON,
Secretary.
Provincial Publci Service Commission,
North Central Province,
Anuradhapura,
01st June, 2012.
Specimen Application
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF RURAL
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER (CLASS II) IN THE NORTH
CENTRAL PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE – 2011(2012)
(For office use only)
Medium appearing for the examination
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
01 Name with initials with initials at the end (In Sinhala/Tamil) :
–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials with initials at the end (In English)
Eg. SUNIL A. B. :–––––––––––.
03. Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
04. Full name (In English) :–––––––––––.
05. National Identification Card No. :
06. Permanent address :
(i) (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(ii) (In English) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
07. Permanent residence :
(i) Resident district :–––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––.
(iii) Grama Niladari Division :–––––––––––.
08. Female/Male :
(Write in the cage) Male - 0
Female - 1
09. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
10. Educational qualifications :
(i) Particulars about the Degree :
(a) Degree obtained :–––––––––––.
(b) University :–––––––––––.
(c) Effective date of the Degree :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
640
(ii) G. C. E. (Advanced Level) :
Year Index Number Subjects and the Grade
(iii) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
First sitting :  Second sitting :
Year :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––––. Index No.  :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(iv) Diploma certificate :–
(a) Diploma obtained and the institution  :––––––––.
(b) Field  :–––––––––––.
(c) Effective date  :–––––––––––.
(v) Period of service  :–––––––––––.
(vi) Applying under which eligibility under No. 3 of the
notification  :–––––––––––.
(Copies of relevant certificate should be annexed).
11. If, have served having posted to a post of Rural Development
Officer under Section IV of the paragraph 5 of the notification
Period of service  :––––––––––– Years (From ................
To....................)
12. Particulars of the examination fee payment receipt :
Receipt Number  :–––––––––––.
Name of the Divisional Secretariat office where the payment
was made  :–––––––––––.
Affix the payment receipt here firmly
(Retain a photostat copy of the payment receipt)
13. Applicant's declaration :
I declare the particulars stated herein are true and correct on the
basis of the certificates/letters stipulated in the recruitment
notification, which are in my possession. I am also aware that in
accordance with the conditions of this examination, if any incorrect
information has been provided by me, my candidacy could be
cancelled either before or after the examination and if such detection
is made after my being selected I am liable to be dismissed from
service. I also declare that I am subject to the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations and
Secretary of the North Central Provincial Public Service Commission
regarding the holding of this examination. And I consent to serve in
the province for the required period of time in case I am selected for
this post.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
(Name  :–––––––––––.)
Date  :–––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that the above particulars given by this candidate Mr./
Mrs. /Miss.......................... are correct and true according to his/
her personal file and he/she has been serving at this office/institution
from ................. in a post of ....................... and has been confirmed
in that post and he/she has fulfilled qualifications in accordance
with paragraph 3 of the relevant notification to apply for this post
and is eligible in accordance with section 5 - IV of the notification.
I also certify that his/her service is satisfactory and in case he/she is
selected for an appointment on the results of this examination he/
she can/cannot be released from the post he/she holds and he/she
has paid the due examination fee and the relevant receipt has been
affixed herein and he/she placed his/her signature before me on
................ (Delete the words inapplicable).
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Place the official seal)
Date  :–––––––––––.
Full name of the certifying officer  :–––––––––––.
Designation  :–––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Ministry Secretary,
(Place the official seal).
Date  :–––––––––––.
Full name of the certifying officer  :–––––––––––.
Designation  :–––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––.
06–779
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.