

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 9.50  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 12, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 8th August, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
FINANCE LEASING (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  24  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20051
Short title.
[Certified on 8th August, 2005]
L. D. — O. 31/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  FINANCE  LEASING  ACT , NO . 56 OF  2000
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Leasing
(Amendment) Act, No.  24  of 2005
2. Section 4 of the Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”)  is hereby
amended in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of that section, by
the substitution for the words “case of a public company—”,
of the words and figures “case of a public company, other
than     those  referred     to  in   paragraph (a)  and  (b)  of
section  3 —”
3. Section 21 of the  principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section,
by the substitution, for the words “twenty one days” of the
words “seven days”.
4. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
24. (1) A lessor may, with the written consent
of the lessee obtained at the time of entering
into the finance lease or thereafter, transfer or
assign all or any of the lessor’s rights under the
finance lease or in relation to any equipment
provided under the lease or of both, to any
registered establishment or to any special
purpose vehicle :
Provided that in the case of a transfer or
assignment to a special purpose vehicle, such
transfer or assignment shall be made only for
the purpose of securitisation and the structure
for securitisation shall be as approved by the
Central Bank.
Amendment of
section 4 of Act,
No. 56 of 2000.
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section24 of the
principal
enactment.“Transfer or
assignment of
lessor’s right.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005
(2) A registered establishement or a special
purpose vehicle shall effect securitisation only
in accordance with the structure approved
granted by the Central Bank and in compliance
with such directions and guidelines as may from
time to time be issued by the Central Bank.
(3) A transfer or assignment under
subsection (1) shall not relieve the transferor or
assignor of his duties —
(a) under the finance lease or alter the nature
or legal effect of such lease; or
(b) insofar as they relate to any equipment
provided under the terms of  the finance
lease.
(4) Upon a transfer or assignment by the
lessor as provided for in subsection (1) to a
special purpose vehicle of his rights in a motor
vehicle within the meaning of the Motor Trafic
Act (Chapter 203),—
(a) the transferee or the assignee shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),
be deemed to be the absolute owner of
the motor vehicle and the transferee or
the assignee shall within seven days after
the transfer or assignment, as the case may
be, apply to the Commissioner to have
the name of the transferee or assingnee
entered as the absolute owner of the
vehicle in the appropriate register
maintained in such form as may be
provided by the Commissioner, for such
purpose. The application shall be
accompanied by the fee thereto prescribed
under the aforesaid Act and a copy of the
instrument of transfer or assignment as the
case may be. Upon the Commissioner

<!-- page 4 -->

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20053
 
being satisfied on the contents of the
document forwarded to  him with the
application, that the transfer or assignment
has been effected under a securitisation
structure approved by the Central Bank,
he shall cause the name of the transferee
or assignee, as the case may, be to be
entered as absolute owner of the vehicle
in the appropriate register maintained by
him ; and
(b) the transferee or assignee may from the
date of registration, excerise all rights
under the aforesaid Act or the finance
lease which the transfereor or assignor
may have exercised, prior to the transfer
or assignment of his rights under
subsection (1).
For the purposes of this section “Commissioner”
means the Commissioner of Motor Traffic
appointed under section 204 of the Mortor Traffic
Act (Chapter 203).”.
5. Section 38 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :-
38. Every registered establishment and
every special purpose vehicle shall be deemed
to be a lending institution within the meaning,
and for the purposes, of the Credit Information
Bureau of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1990.”.
6. Section 39 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
39. Every person who-
(a) carries on finance leasing business in
contravention of the provisions of
section 2 ;
Replacement of
section 38 of the
principal
enactment.“A registered
establishment
and special
purpose
vehicle
deemed to be
a lending
institution.
Replacement of
section 39 of the
principal
enactment.“Offences.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005
(b) fails to comply with the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 5 ;
(c) fails to pay the annual registration fee
as required by section 6 ;
(d) fails to provide the particulars required
under section 7 ;
(e) alters the particulars contained in the
operating manual or the Memorandum
or Articles of Association in
contravention of the  provisions of
section 8 ; or
(f) contravenes any regulation made under
this Act or fails to comply with any
direction or notice issued under this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act. ”.
7. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion, immediately after the definition
of the expression “Monetary Board”, of the following new
definitions :—
“securitization” means the issuance of securities by a
special purpose vehicle which are backed by any
assets consisting of any or all the rights in a finance
lease or any equipment forming the subject matter
of a finance lease or of both, transferred or assigned
by a lessor in favour of such special purpose
vehicle ;
“special purpose vehicle” means a body corporate or
unincorporate, including a trust, established solely
for the purpose of securitisation and for activities
connected therewith or incidental thereto ;”.
8. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 44 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 44
A  of the that enactment :—
Amendment
of section 43
of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 44
A  in
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20055
44A . (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1) of section 44 of the principal
enactment, a person who was required to be
registered under that subsection within the
period of time stipulated therein and who has
not obtained a registration on the date of the
coming into operation of this Act —
(a) shall not be deemed  to have committed
an offence under the provisions of the
principal enactment and consequently
any agreements entered into by such
person shall be deemed to be valid ;
(b) may continue to carry on the business
of finance leasing for a period of two
years from the date of the coming into
operation of this Act ; and
(c) shall, subject to the provisions of
subsection (2) of this section, be required
within the period referred to in
paragraph (b) of this subsection,  to
apply for and obtain a Certificate of
Registration under the principal
enactment, to continue to carry on such
finance leasing business.
(2) A person shall not be eligible to be
registered under paragraph (c) of subsection (1)
of this section, unless such person is a public
company incorporated under the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982 having a minimum issued
and paid up capital of such amount as   shall be
prescribed, provided that the amount  shall not
exceed the amount prescribed as minimum
issued and paid up capital under paragraph (c)
of section 3 of this Act.
“Registration
of persons
who failed to
register
under section
44 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005
(3) Every application made for  registration
under this section, shall be accompanied by -
(a) the documents referred to in section 4
of the principal enactment;
(b) a copy of the audited balance sheet and
the profit and loss account for the year
preceding the date of submitting the
application; and
(c) the prescribed fee.
(4) The Director may in addition to the
documents referred to in subsection (3), request
an applicant to submit such further documents
or information as he may consider necessary
and it shall be the duty of the applicant to
comply with any such request.
(5) The provisions of subsection (2) of
section 44 shall apply in respect of a person
referred to in subsection (1) of this section.
(6) The Director in concurrence with the
Minister may by  notice issued in that behalf,
require a person registered under this section,
to increase within the time specified therein ,
its minimum issued and paid up capital to such
amount as specified in such notice. Provided
that the minimum issued and paid up capital as
increased shall not exceed the amount
prescribed under paragraph (c) of section 3.
(7) Where any registered person fails to
comply with any requirement  under subsection
(6), the Director shall have the authority to
restrict or limit the finance leasing business or

<!-- page 8 -->

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20057
any other transactions being carried on by such
person, until the requirement contained in the
aforesaid   notice is complied with.”.
9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.