

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 12.25 Postage  :  Rs. 7.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April  01, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 30th March, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  6  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20051
Short title.
2 —PL 000035 — 5,650 (02/2005)
[Certified on 30th March, 2005]
L. D. — O. 57/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  VALUE  ADDED  TAX  ACT , NO . 14 OF  2002
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax
(Amendment) Act, No.   6   of 2005.
2. Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section —
(a) by the substitution for the words “as the case
may be-” of the words “as the case may be,
subject to the provisions of section 2A , at the
following rates :—”;
(b) in subparagraph (ii) of that subsection—
(1) by the substitution for the words “for any
taxable period commencing on or after
January 1, 2004” of the words “for any
taxable period commencing on or after
January 1, 2004 and ending on or
before —
(a) November 18, 2004 in respect of
goods specified in the Third
Schedule ; and
(b) December 31, 2004 in respect of
goods for which the Third Schedule
does not apply.”.
(2) by the substitution for the words “at zero
per centum. ” of the words “at zero per
centum;”;
Amendment of
section 2 of Act,
No. 14 of 2002.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005
(c) by the addition immediately after sub-
paragraph (ii) of that subsection of the
following new sub-paragraphs :—
“(iii)for the period commencing on
November 19, 2004 and ending on or
before December 31, 2004 and for any
taxable  period commencing on or after
January 1, 2005 at the rate of five per
centum (Basic Rate ) (of which tax
fraction  is 1/21) on the value of such
goods supplied or imported as referred
to in the Third Schedule other than such
goods chargeable with tax at zero per
centum ;
(iv) for any taxable period commencing on
or after January 1, 2005 at the rate of
eighteen per centum (Luxury Rate) (of
which Tax Fraction is 9/59, on the value
of such goods or services supplied or
goods imported as referred to in the
Fourth Schedule other than such goods
or services chargeable with tax at zero
per centum ;and
(v) for any taxable period commencing on
or after January1, 2005 at the rate of
fifteen per centum (Standard Rate) (of
which the Tax Fraction is 3/23) on the
value of such goods or services supplied
or goods imported other than in respect
of the following :—
(a) goods or services chargeable with tax
at zero per centum; and
(b) goods or services specified in the Third
Schedule or the Fourth Schedule of this
Act.

<!-- page 4 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20053
 
(2) in subsection (2) of that section —
(a) in paragraph (a) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “on any tea supplied
by” of the words “on any tea supplied prior to
January 1, 2005 by”;
(b) in paragraph (b) of that subsection by the
substitution for the word “supplies.” of the
words “supplies ;”;
(c) by the addition immediately after paragraph
(b) of that subsection of the following new
paragraphs :—
“(c) (i) on the supply with the approval of
the Textile Quota Board established
by the Textile Quota Board Act, No.
33 of 1996, of any goods
manufactured in Sri Lanka by such
supplier to be utilized for the purpose
of manufacture of garments for export
either by manufacturers who are
registered with the Textile Quota
Board or through Export Trading
Houses registered with the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka; or
(ii) on the supply of finished garments
manufactured in Sri Lanka by such
supplier with the approval of the
Textile Quota Board established by
the Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33
of 1996, to be exported through
Export Trading Houses registered
with the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka under section 17 of the Board
of Investment of Sri Lanka Law No.
4 of 1978,

<!-- page 5 -->

4 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005
until such time as the activities of such garment
manufacturers are monitored by the Textile Quota
Board and the Textile Quota Board furnishes the
reconciliation on the disposal of such  goods on a
quarterly basis as stipulated by the Commissioner-
General to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-
General, that such finished goods are in fact exported
by the recipient of the supplies.
(d) on the supply with the approval of the Export
Development Board, established by the Sri
Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of
1979 with the concurrence of the Ministry of
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance of any goods manufactured in Sri
Lanka by such suppliers to be utilized for the
purpose of manufacture of goods other than
the goods referred to in paragraph (c) of this
subsection by manufactures who are registered
with the Export Development Board as
exporters, until such time as the activities of
such manufacturers are monitored by the
Export Development Board with the approval
of the Ministry of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance and the Export
Development Board, furnishes the
reconciliation on the disposal of such goods
on a qurterly basis as stipulated by the
Commissioner-General to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner-General, that such
furnished goods are in fact exported by the
recipient of the supplies.
(3) in subsection (3) of that section —
(a) in paragraph (e) thereof, by the substitution
for the  words “on or before December 31,
2002:” of the following words “on or before
December 31, 2002;”; and

<!-- page 6 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20055
(b) by the addition immediately after paragraph
(e) of that subsection of the following new
paragraph :—
(f) any fabric or accessories imported by
any person for the purpose of
manufacture of garments for export, who
has registered with the Textile Quota
Board established under the Textile
Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996, with
the approval of the Textile Quota Board
and under the supervision of the
Director-General of Customs or the
Board of Investment as the case may
be.”.
3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 2 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 2
A  of that enactment :—
2A . (1) The Minister may by Order vary the
rates specified in section 2 insofar as the same
relates to the increasing or reducing of the rates
previously specified, and to such extent as it
relates to the imposition of Value Added Tax
specified under the aforesaid section.
(2) The Order made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall be in operation
immediately upon the Minister affixing his
signature thereto.
(3) Every such Order shall as soon as
convenient be published in the Gazette.
(4) Every such Order shall as soon as
convenient thereafter be approved by a
Resolution of Parliament.
(5) Where any such Order is not approved
by Parliament it shall be deemed to be rescinded
with effect from the date of such Resolution.”.
Insertion of new
section 2A  in the
principal
enactment.
“Minister
may vary the
rates by
Order.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005
4. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (d) of that section by the substitution
for the words “August 1, 2002,” of the words “August 1, 2002
but prior to January 1, 2005,”.
5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following section substituted therefor :—
6. The value of goods imported shall be the
aggregate of —
(a) the value of the goods determined for
the purpose of custom duty increased by
five per centum; and
(b) the amount of any custom duty payable
in respect of such goods with the addition
of any surcharge, cess, any Port and
Airport Development Levy payable
under the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002,
and any excise duty payable under the
Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13
of 1989 on such goods.”.
6. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section by
the addition immediately after sub-paragraph (vi), the
following new sub-paragraph :—
“(vii) the provision of services to overseas buyers by
a garment buying office registered with the
Ministry of Industries under the supervision of
the Textile Quota Board established under the
Textile Quota Board Act, No. 33 of 1996, where
payment for such service is received in foreign
currency, through a Bank in Sri Lanka insofar
as such services are identified by the
Commissioner-General as being services
essential for facilitating the export of garments
to such overseas buyers.”.
Replacement of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment to
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.
“The value of
the goods
imported.
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20057
7. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (6) of that section as follows :—
(1) by the re-numbering of that subsection as paragraph
(a) of that subsection ;
(2) in the re-numbered paragraph (a) by the substitution
for the words “under this subsection” of the words
“under this paragraph;”;
(3) by the addition, immediately after the re-numbered
subsection (6) (a) of that subsection of the following
new paragraph :—
“(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (2), though Value Added Tax is deferred,
there shall be issued by every registered person, on
supplies made under paragraphs (a) or (c) of
subsection (2) of section 2, a tax invoice along with
the Value Added Tax component shown as
‘Suspended Value Added Tax’ . An invoice issued
under this paragraph shall not be considered as a
tax invoice for the purposes of this Act.”.
8. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “before the expiry” of the words “not later than
the twentieth day of the month after the expiry of each taxable
period”.
9. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) of that section by the addition
immediately after the second proviso to that subsection of
the following :—
“Provided further, that any person who accounts
for the output tax at the rate of five per centum shall
not be entitled to deduct any input tax in relation to
such supply other than in  the case of a motor vehicle
used for purposes of transportation of machinery for
production :
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005
Provided further, any input tax paid at the rate of
eighteen per centum by any person which is
allowable under this Act shall be restricted to fifteen
per centum.”.
10. Section 25C  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (5) of that section as follows :—
(1) in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (g) of that
subsection, by the substitution for the words and
figures “on or after January 1, 2004” of the words
and figures “on or after January 1, 2004 and ending
prior to January 1, 2005”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (g)
thereof of the following new paragraph :—
“(gg) for the taxable period commencing on or
after January 1, 2005, the profits or income
arising to any person from the sale of
company shares owned by such person or
to any person who is instrumental in the
purchase and sale of such shares by other
persons, other than such profits and income
arising to any “specified institution” within
the meaning of this Chapter or a person
not registered with the Central Bank  of
Sri Lanka, but providing services similar
to such services provided by a finance
company ;”.
11. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “fifteenth day of the month” of the words
“twentieth day of the month”.
Amendment of
section  25C  of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 26 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 10 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20059
12. Section 76 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—
(1) in the second proviso to that subsection by the
substitution for the words “wholly and exhaustively
in making exempt supplies,”of the words “wholly
and exclusively in making exempt supplies,”;
(2) by the substitution for the words “taxable supplies.”
of the following :—
“taxable supplies :
Provided further that where any goods or services
that are acquired have been used in making a taxable
supply and any input tax has been claimed and
allowed, then any portion of such input tax allowed,
which is attributable to an exempt supply at the
point if any, if such supply subsequently becomes
an exempt supply, except in the case of providing
leasing facilities for three wheelers, then
notwithstanding the provisions of section 22, be
disallowed within the taxable period in which such
taxable supply becomes an exempt supply.”.
13. The First Schedule of the principal enactment is
hereby amended in Part II  thereof as follows :—
(1) in item (i), of Part II (a), by the substitution for the
words “fresh coconut, green leaf,” of the words “fresh
coconut, tea including green leaf,”;
(2) in item (iv), of Part II (a), by the substitution for the
words “aircrafts, helicopters, pearls, diamonds,
natural or synthetic, precious or semi precious stones,
diamond powder, precious metal, metals clad with
precious metals, gold coins and” of the words
“aircrafts, helicopters and”;
(3) in item (x), of Part II (a), by the substitution for the
words and figures “(effective from 01.07.2004).”of
the words and figures “(effective from
01.07.2004);”;
Amendment of
the First
Schedule of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 76 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005
(4) by the addition immediately after item (x) of Part II
(a), of the following new item :—
“(xi) agricultural seeds, agricultural plants, shrimp
feed inclusive of prawn feed and animal feed
but excluding poultry feed”;
(5) in item (ii) of Part II (b), by the substitution for the
words and figures “prior to January 1, 2004;” of the
words and figures “prior to January 1, 2004 and the
provision of leasing facilities for three wheelers on
any lease rental payable on the leasing facility for
three wheelers on or after January 1, 2005;”;
(6) in item (iii) of Part II (b), by the substitution for the
words and figures “(Chapter 2005) per month;” of
the words and figures “(Chapter 2005) per month
and electricity through alternate energy projects
other than energy through hydro-power or thermal
power;”;
(7) by the addition immediately after item (viii) of Part
II (c), of the following new items:—
“(ix) goods to any project approved by the
Commissioner-General, as having a capital
investment of not less than rupees one
hundred million which are considered as
project related capital goods, other than the
goods in the negative list published by the
Secretary to the Treasury, during the project
implementation period which shall not
exceed three years from the commencement
of the project, provided that such project
makes taxable supplies upon the completion
of the project (effective from 1.1.2005);
(x) samples of garments for business purposes
by any garment buying office in Sri Lanka
registered with the Textile Quota Board
established under the Textile Quota Board
Act, No. 33 of 1996, so long as such item is
not sold;”;

<!-- page 12 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 200511
(8) by the addition immediately after Part II (d) of the
following :—
“(e) the supply of locally manufactured goods to
duty free shops for payment in foreign
currency.”.
14. The following new Schedules are hereby inserted
immediately after the Second Schedule of the principal
enactment and shall have effect as the Third Schedule and
the Fourth Schedule of that enactment :—
“ THIRD SCHEDULE (Section 2)
B
ASIC  RAT E
The supply or import of—
(i) sugar;
(ii) dhal;
(iii)potatoes;
(iv) onions;
(v) dried fish;
(vi) milk powder other than infant milk powder;
(vii) chillies.
The import or supply of goods referred to in items (i) and
(ii) of this Scheldule shall be deemed for all purposes to have
been exempt from Value Added Tax from October 1, 2004 to
November 18, 2004.
Insertion of a
new  Third
Schedule and
Fourth Schedule
in the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005
FOURTH SCHEDULE (Section 2)
LUXURY   RATE
(a) The supply and import of —
(i) air conditioning machines;
(ii) refrigerators;
(iii) dishwashing machines;
(iv) washing machines;
(v) vacuum cleaners/floor polishers;
(vi) kitchen waste disposers;
(vii) food grinders and mixers;
(viii) ovens and cookers;
(ix) hair dryers/hair dressing equipment;
(x) video player (VCD, DVD );
(xi) cameras;
(xii) radio, casette and Music systems;
(xiii)television;
(xiv) motor vehicles, other than motor cycles,
bicycles, three wheelers and passenger transport
buses, lorries, trucks and any other vehicle used
for the transport of goods ;
(xv) watches/clocks;
(xvi) musical instruments;
(xvii) equipment for games;
(xviii) jewellery;
(xix) aerated water;
(xx) liquor;
(b) the supply of services by hotels, guest houses,
restaurants or similar institution so far as such
services are provided for wedding receptions and
other receptions, other than professional
conferences, seminars or similar events and also
including the hiring of halls for such receptions.

<!-- page 14 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 200513
15. The amendment made to—
(a) section 2(3) (f) of the principal enactment by section
2 of this Act shall for all purposes be deemed to
have come into force on January 1, 2005;
(b) section 6 of the principal enactment by section 5 of
this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have
come into force on January 1, 2005;
(c) section 21  of the principal enactment by section 8
of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have
come into force on January 1, 2005;
(d) section 22 of the principal enactment —
(i) by the first proviso to section 9 of this Act
shall for all purposes be deemed to have come
into force on November 18, 2004;
(ii) by the second proviso to section 9 of this Act
shall for all purposes be deemed to have come
into force on January 1, 2005 ;
(e) section 26 of the principal enactment by section 11
of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have
come into force on January 1, 2005 ;
(f) the third proviso to section 76 of the principal
enactment by section 11 of this Act shall be deemed
for all purposes to have come into force on January
1, 2005.
16 Section 22 of Act, No. 13 of 2004 is hereby amended
in paragraph (v) of item (1) thereof by the substitution for the
words and figures “October 17, 2003” of the words and figures
“September 17, 2003”.
Amendment of
section 22  of
Act, No. 13 of
2004.
Retrospective
effect.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2005
17.  Any person who collects the value added tax as
provided for in this Act, during the period commencing
November 19, 2004 and ending on December 31, 2004, and
for the peirod commencing on January 1, 2005 and ending
on the date of the coming into  operation of this Act, shall be
deemed to have acted with due authority and such collection
shall be deemed for all purposes to have been, and to be,
validly made and such person is hereby indemnified against
all actions civil or criminal, in respect of such collection.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Indemnity.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 16 -->

Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 200515
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.