

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
529
529
wxl 1"802 - 2013 ud¾;= 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'03'15
No. 1,802 – FRIDAY , MARCH 15, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 532
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 533
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 05th April, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd
March, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
530
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
531
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
532
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 15th of April, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
28th February, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Additional Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Hiyarapitiya Area, Udunuwara General, District Secretariat,
Yatinuwara Division (Kandyan/General) Kandy.
03–730
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
533
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th of April, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
28th February, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Matale Matale Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Matale Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Matale.
03–731
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
MINISTRY  OF  NATIONAL  HERITAGE
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts of Exploration Assistant/Excavation Assistant/
Excavation and Museum Assistant/Chemical Preservation
Assistant/Laboratory Assistant/Maintenance Assistant of
Management Assistant - Non Technological Part 2 Officer
Group of Department of Archaeology - 2013
(1) APPLICATIONS are invited for recruitment to the posts of
Exploration Assistant/Excavation Assistant/Excavation and Museum
Assistant/Chemical Preservation Assistant/Laboratory Assistant/
Maintenance Assistant of Department of Archaeology. The duly
completed applications according to the given format should be
sent to me on or before 15.04.2013.
02. Salary Scale .– Grade III (As per Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006, MN-1-2006-A).
Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 -Rs. 22,040.
3. Terms of Engagement :
Grade III : This post is permanent and pensionable.
Recruitment is made subject to three years period of
probation.
4. Qualifications required :
5. Every applicant should be able to produce evidences that he/
she possess following qualifications :
(a) Possession of excellent character and sound physical
health.
(b) Age.– Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years
as at 15.04.2013.
(c) Educational Qualifications :
(d) All the educational qualifications mentioned below should
be fulfilled as to recruit to the Grade III of all afore
mentioned posts :
(i) Should have passed 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination in one sitting with four credit passes
including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil/English
Language ; and
(ii) Should have passed at least one subject (excluding
General Common Test) at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination.
(iii) Should have passed Chemistry as a subject at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination for the posts of Chemical
Preservation Assistant and Laboratory Assistant.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
534
(e) Professional Qualifications .– Should have followed a
Computer Course for not less than 06 months in a
Institute recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission or should have obtained the
Computer Driving License.
6. Applicants should be required to attach copies of the following
documents to their applications :
(i) Certificate of Birth,
(ii) Two recent Certificates of Character,
(iii) Certificates in support of the Educational Qualifications,
(iv) Certificate of Grama Niladhari in support of the
residence,
(v) Other certificates of professional qualifications,
(vi) National Identity Card.
7. Applications should be sent under Registered Post to the
following address on or before 15.04.2013. Name of the post apply
should be written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
8. (i) Applicant should pay Rs. 300 as examination fee to the
credit of the Revenue Head 2003-02-13, in favour of
Director General, Archaeology through any Divisional
Secretariat.
(ii) Every applicant should complete their applications by
the language indicated in them.
(iii) No appl icant will be granted to change the medium
stated in the application, later.
(iv) Subjects and the Syllabus. – Open Competitive
Examination will be consisted of written papers about
subjects under mentioned.
Subjects :
Subjects Duration T otal Pass
Marks Marks
Intelligence Test 1 hour 100% 40%
General Knowledge 1 hour 100% 40%
Syllabus :
Name of the Syllabus
question paper
1. Intelligence Test (i) Evaluation of the comprehension
power, logical ability and general
intelligence power of the candidate
2. General Knowledge (i) Knowledge about current affairs
(v) Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to these
posts will be conducted by the Director General,
Archaeology or by the Institution approved by the
Director General, Archaeology.
9. Every condition set out in respect of appointment to the
posts of Public Service is applicable to these posts. In case of a
Government Servant, the application should be sent through the
Head of the Department.
Further details could be obtained via the official web site of the
Department of Archaeology, 
www.Archaeology.gov.lk
Director General.
Department of Archaeology,
Sir Marcus Fernando Avenue,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
EXPLORATION ASSISTANT/EXCA V ATION ASSISTANT/EXCA V ATION AND
MUSEUM ASSISTANT/CHEMICAL PRESERV ATION ASSISTANT/LABORATORY
ASSISTANT/MAINTENANCE ASSISTANT OF MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT -
NON TECHNOLOGICAL  PART 2 OFFICER GROUP OF DEPARTMENT OF
ARCHAEOLOGY ESTABLISHED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF NA TIONAL
HERITAGE - 2013
(Indicate the post here) (For office use only)
Medium of sitting for the Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Write in the relevant cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters) Ex. : PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write in the relevant cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :                        Month : Date :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
535
3.3 Age as at 15.04.2013 :
Years : Months: Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
4.1 Year of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination passed :
(i) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Results :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
38 .
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Year of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination passed :
(i) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Results :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3
4.
5.0 Qualifications in Computer Applications :–––––––––––.
6.0 Details about the present profession :
6.1 Present place of work :–––––––––––.
6.2 Present position :–––––––––––.
6.3 Date of appointment :–––––––––––.
6.4 Date of confirmation of the service :–––––––––––.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted by a Court ? :–––––––––––.
(Put the mark in the relevant cage) (If yes, give details)
Yes N o
8.0 Declaration of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and that all the sections are
completed accurately. I am aware that this declaration is found to
be false I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to be
dimissed if the inaccuracy is discovered after appointment and be
submissive to the all terms.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
9.0 Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Miss./Mrs. ............................. who submit
this application is known to me personally and he/she has signed
this document on ...................... in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Substantiate by official seal)
10.0 Recommendation of the Head of the Institution, if already
occupied in the Public Service :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. serving
in this Department/Institution from ........................... as ................
is correct, his work and attendance is satisfactory and not accusation
is against him.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Institution.
(Substantiate by official seal)
Date :–––––––––––.
03–622
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  NATIONAL  HERITAGE
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts of Technical Officer (Preservation Assistant)/
Draftsman/Archaeological Reprographer of Sri Lanka
Technological Service of Department of Archaeology
Established  - 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited for recruitment to the posts of
Technical Officer (Preservation Assistant)/Draftsman/
Archaeological Reprographer of Sri Lanka Technological Service of
Department of Archaeology. The duly completed applications
according to the given format should be sent to me on or before
15.04.2013.
1. Salary Scale.– Grade III (As per Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006, MN-3-2006-A).
Rs. 15,005 - 180x4 - 240x6 -320x11 - 360x20 - Rs. 27,885.
Trainee Grade - Monthly allowance - Rs. 12,920.
2. Terms of engagement :
Grade III  : This post is permanent and pensionable.
Recrutiment is made subject to three years period of
probation.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
536
Trainee Grade : Trainees will be appointed to Grade III on
the number of vacancies based on the consequence of
highest scores out of those who pass the examination
after completing the two years theoretical and practical
training.
4. Qualifications required.– Every applicant shoudl be able to
produce evidences that he/she possess following qualifications :
(a) Possession of excellent character and sound physical
health.
(b) Age.– Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years
as at 15.04.2013.
(c) Educational qualifications .– All the educational
qualifications mentioned below should be fulfilled as to
recruit to the Grade III and Trainee Grade of all afore
mentioned posts :
(i) Applications are invited from eligibly qualified Sri
Lankan citizens between 18 and 30 years of age for
the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment
to the above posts.
(ii) Should have passed 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination in one sitting with four credit passes
including Language or Literature, Mathematics,
Science and one other subject ; and
(iii) Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in
03 science subjects including two subjects out of the
Pure Mathematics/Applied Mathematics/Combined
Mathematics and Physics ; and
(iv) Should have passed a certificate course recognized
by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission in Computer Word Processing/Type
Writing/Shorthand Writing.
(d) Professional qualifications for applying for Grade III  :–
Professional qualifications for Grade III of the posts of
Technical Officer (Preservation Assistant) and
Draftsman :
Candidates should possess National Technological
DIploma not less than Level 05 of the National V ocational
Qualifications (NVQ), or the Diploma in Engineering from
the Hardy Institute of Ampara/National Apprentice and
Industrial Training Authority/Higher Technological
Institute of Sri Lanka/Open University of Sri Lanka/
Institute of Engineering, Sri Lanka or equivalent
technological qualifications recognized by the
Technological Service Board of Sri Lanka.
Professional qualifications for Grade III of the Post of
Archaeological Reprographer :
Candidates should possess the Diploma in Photography
offered by a recognized University or a V ocational Institute
recognized by the Government.
(e) Professional qualifications for applying for the Trainee
Grade :
Professional qualifications for Trainee Grade of the Post
of Technical Officer :
Candidates should have obtained the National
Technological Certificate (part time training course of
three years) not less than Level 5 of the National V ocational
Qualifications (NVQ) from a Technical College recognized
by the Government, in relevance to the field apply.
Professional qualifications for Trainee Grade of the Post
of Draftsman :
Should have obtained the relevance certificate, after
completing the one year full time course on Draftsman,
from a V ocational Educational Institute recognized by the
Government.
Professional qualifications for Trainee Grade of the Post
of Archaeological Reprographer :
Should have obtained the certificate, after completing the
one year full time course or two year part time course on
Photogrpahy, from a V ocational Educational Institute
recognized by the Government.
4. Applicants should be required to attach copies of the following
documents to their applications :
(i) Certificate of birth,
(ii) Two recent certificates and character,
(iii) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications,
(iv) Certificate of Grama Niladhari in support of the
residence,
(v) Other certificates of professional qualification,
(vi) National Identity Card.
5. Applications should be sent under Registered Post to the
following address on or before 15.04.2013. Name of the post apply
should be written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
6. (i) Applicant shuld pay Rs. 300 as examination fee to the
credit of the Revenue Head 2003-02-13, in favour of
Director General, Archaeology through any Divisional
Secretariat.
(ii) Every applicant should complete their applications by
the language indicated in them.
(iii) No applicant will be granted to change the medium
stated in the application, later.
(iv) Subjects and the Syllabus. – Open Competitive
Examination will be consisted of written papers about
subjects under mentioned.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
537
Subjects :
Subjects Duration T otal Pass
Marks Marks
Intelligence Test 1 hour 100% 40%
General Test 1 1/2 hours 100% 40%
(Technology and
Objective Test)
Syllabus :
Name of the Syllabus
question paper
1. Intelligence Test (i) Comprises of questions to judge
(1 hour) the logical ability of the candidate,
analyzing condition of his mind and
his power to make decisions
2. General Knowledge ( a) For the posts of Technical Officer
(Technology and (Preservation Assistant) and
Objective Test) Draftsman
(1 1/2 hours)
(i) Basic knowledge about ancient
monuments.
(ii) General comprehension about
Architectural conservation
principles.
(iii) Knowledge about designing/
preparing estimates.
(iv) Knowledge about drawing designs
and equipment/construction
technology.
(b) For the posts of Photographer  :
(i) Knowledge about basic
photographical equipment.
(ii) Knowledge about technology in
photography.
(iii) Knowledge about chemicals related
to the photography.
(iv) Knowledge about types of printing
papers.
(v) Principles of Photography.
(v) Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to these
posts will be conducted by an Institution approved by
the Director General, Archaeology.
7. Every condition set out in respect of appointment to the
posts of Public Service is applicable to these posts. In case of a
Government Servant, the application should be sent through the
Head of the Department.
Further details could be obtained via the official web site of the
Department of Archaeology, www.Archaeology.gov.lk.
Director General.
Department of Archaeology,
Sir Marcus Fernando Avenue,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
TECHNICAL OFFICER (PRESERV ATION ASSISTANT)/DRAFTSMAN/
ARCHAEOLOGICAL REPROGRAPHER OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE OF DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAEOLOGY ESTABLISHED UNDER THE
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL HERITAGE - 2013
(For office use only)
Medium of sitting for The Grade applied for :
the Examination : Grad III-I
Sinhala - 2 Trainee Grade - 2
Tamil - 3 (Write in the relevant cage)
(Write in the relevant cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters) Ex. : PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
3.0 3.1 Sex :–––––––––––.
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write in the relevant cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :                        Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 15.04.2013 :
Years : Months: D ays :

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2013
538
4.0 Educational qualifications :
4.1 Year of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination passed :–––––––––.
(i) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Results :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
38 .
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Year of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination passed :–––––––––.
(i) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Results :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3
4.
5.0 Technological qualifications :
Institution Course Duration Grading No. and
followed Date of the
Certificate
6.0 Qualifications in Computer Applications or type writing or
short hand writing :–––––––––––.
7.0 If occupied in the Public Service :
7.1 Address of the Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
7.2 Current profession :–––––––––––.
7.3 Period of service :–––––––––––.
7.4 Whether permanent or temporary :–––––––––––.
7.5 If you were terminated from the Public Service, give
reasons :–––––––––––.
8.0 Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law on any
offence ? :–––––––––––.
(Mark the relevant cage) (If affirmative give details)
Yes N o
9.0 Details of the receipt of payment of the examination fee :
(i) The office where the examination fee is paid :–––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
(iii) the amount paid :
Affix the receipt here firmly
10.0 Declaration of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and that all the sections are
completed accurately. I am aware that this declaration is found to
be false I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to be
dimissed if the inaccuracy is discovered after appointment and be
submissive to the all terms.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Miss./Mrs. ............................. who submit
this application is known to me personally and he/she has signed
this document on ...................... in my presence and that he/she has
paid due examination fee and has affixed the receipt herein.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Substantiate by official seal)
03–623
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.