

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 72]
————————
Presented by Hon. Mrs. Sriyani Wijewickrama M. P. for
Digamadulla District on 09th February, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on January 31, 2011)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2—PL 005503—850 (02/2011)
MAITHRIPALA SENANAYAKE
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Maithripala Senanayake Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
1
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MAITHRIPALA  SENANAYAKE
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Maithripala Senanayake Foundation” has been established
at “Siri Medura”, Kiulekada, Kebithigollewa in
Medawachchiya electorate,  Anuradhapura district, Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and matters
for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Maithripala Senanayake
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
“Maithripala Senanayake Foundation” (hereinafter referred
to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Maithripala Senanayake Foundation” and by that name may
sue and be sued in all courts with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) social development associations namely Lanka
Lakshmi Kantha Sanvidanaya and Senuri Minuri
2—PL 005406—80  (12/2010)
Preamble.
5
10
15 Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Maithripala
Senanayake
Foundation.
20
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
2
Foundation will be affiliated to the Maithripala
Senanayake  Foundation;
(b) organizing and conducting educational workshops
and programmes essential for students to improve
their knowledge and perception as well as skills
within the educational sector of Sri Lanka, creating
scholarship programmes up to university education
for students with exceptional talents and granting
them with gifts, certificates and other awards and
extending assistance to improve Dhamma Schools
and pre-schools;
(c) contributing and encouraging promotion of
religious and cultural activities related to
Buddhism, Hinduism, Catholicism and Islam as
much as possible, while working to establish mutual
understanding, trust and unity among people
belonging to all faiths;
(d) educating the people living in urban, rural and in
estate regions on basic hygenic requirements and
organizing programs to create awareness of the
virtues of preserving the natural environment while
providing facilities as much as possible to preserve
the environment and to enable a healthy life pattern;
(e) organizing and conducting programmes for
empowering deprived families while minimizing
poverty and introducing self employment
generating projects while helping sickly persons
in low income families and assisting during special
events in those families such as funerals and
weddings;
(f) organizing programmes to exchange knowledge
and perception related to matters of national and
cultural heritages of Sri Lanka while preserving
those heritages and obtaining assistance of the state
institutions and non government organizations to
launch above activities successfully;
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 4 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
3
5
20
10
15
25
30
(g) establishing a legal assistance service to help those
who are in need of legal services;
(h) to assist the citizens by intervening when assistance
is requested by them to protect their rights under
the fundamental rights and human rights  asserted
in the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and the human rights
proclaimed in the UN charter of human rights;
(i) organizing workshops to enhance professional and
intellectual skills of the youth, while providing
education in the field of modern science and
technology and acclaiming novel efforts of those
who are engaged in the field;
(j) creating training opportunities for the youth in the
fields that have good demand in the employment
market such as technical, construction, information
technology, computer and mobile phones, and
registering them after the conclusion of training
and directing them towards potential local and
overseas employment opportunities;
(k) encouraging those who are engaged in the fields of
fine arts such as painting, sculpturing, carving,
music, dance, plays, tele-dramas and films while
providing media facilities for the acclamation of
their achievements;
(l) creating skilled athletes to achieve national and
international goals by launching a programme
named “Kreeda Saviya” and working to preserve
traditional sports while organizing traditional sports
events to conserve them as national heritages; and
(m ) training and establishing an Elite Task Force for
disaster management consisting of hundred capable
youth that would provide active intervention during
regional as well as national level outbreaks.

<!-- page 5 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required
for the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) to open, maintain and close bank accounts;
(c) to obtain financial loans with or without security
or to collect money;
(d) to accept and collect local or foreign financial or
other, grants and donations;
(e) to recruit, employ, discipline and dismiss the
services of the relevant officers and servants; and
(f) to establish necessary committees to enhance or
develop the objects of the Corporation or some of
the objects of the Corporation appropriately or to
execute any and every kind of suitable action and
to perform and implement necessary things.
5. (1) The Management of the affairs of the Corporation
subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation be administered
by a Management Board consisting of Chairperson Secretary,
Treasurer, Assistant Secretary, Vice Chairperson, Organizer
and the Chairperson of the Advisory Board.
(2) The Management Board, when executing affairs of the
Corporation, should be referred to as the “Board of Directors”.
The Chairperson of the Management Board, shall be the
Director General of the  Corporation and the Board of
Directors shall appoint one member from the Board of
Directors as the Director for Administrative Affairs of it. The
Treasurer shall be the Director for Accounts of the
Corporation while the Vice Chairperson, the Assistant
Secretary, Organizer and the Chairperson of the Advisory
Committee shall be the other  members of the Board of
Directors.
General
Powers of
the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
20
25
30
5
10
15
Rules of the
Corporation.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
subsection (1) of this Article, Hon. Tissa Wijayarethne
Karalliyadda, M. P., presently residing at “Siri Medura”,
Kiulekada, Kebithigollewa who is the founder of the
Foundation shall be the  Chairperson of this Corporation for
life. If he has not appointed a successor, the Board of Directors
shall appoint a person for it.
(4) The first Management Board of the Corporation shall
consist of the members who had been the office-bearers of
the Maithripala Senanayake Foundation holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. The Corporation consists of an Advisory Board. The
members of the Advisory Board may participate in the
meetings of the Management Board and in general meetings.
This Board may provide guidance to the advancement of
the Corporation while it may present its views in the above
gatherings. However, Advisory Board has no power to move
proposals or vote to second proposals.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the  Corporation, at any general
meeting and by a majority of two-thirds of the members
present and voting to make rules from time to time, not
inconsistent with the provisions  of this Act, and other written
law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) subscription to be paid by the members, their
admission, expulsion and resignations;
(b) election of the Management Board, vacation of, or
removal from office as office bearers and powers,
duties and conduct of the Management Board;
(c) formulating various positions, appointing officials,
agents and servants for the relevant positions, by
the Management Board, when it finds it to be
necessary for the efficient and productive
functioning of the Corporation and determining
their responsibilities, powers, tasks, missions,
wages, allowances or remuneration etc.;
The Advisory
Board.
35

<!-- page 7 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
Fund of the
Corporation.
20
25
30
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Management Board
or the Corporation, filling of vacancies, notices and
agenda of such meetings, the quorum thereof and
the conduct of business thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for
memberships in the Management Board, Advisory
Board and of the Corporation itself; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall insofar
as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law be deemed to be the rules of the
Corporation and may be amended, altered, added to, or
rescineded at a like meeting and in like manner, as a rule
made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation,
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and the
financial year shall be from 1st January to 31st December of
every year.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution fees or grants for and on account
of the Corporation shall be deposited in a bank approved by
the Management  Board to the credit of the Corporation.
9.  (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
7
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The  accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor.
In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such
Institutes.
10. The Seal of the Corporation shall not  be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of
the Chairperson and the Secretary, or two persons from the
Management Board who are duly authorized by the
Corporation who shall sign their names on the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
11.  The relevant Constitution may be revised with the
two third majority consent of the members of the Maithripala
Senanayake Foundation.
12.  The Corporation could be dissolved upon the
unanimous consent of the Management Board. Currently
available assets, if any, may be donated to an appropriate
charity institution or to a government institution, under the
supervision of the Public Trustee.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Revising the
Constitution.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
30
35

<!-- page 9 -->

Maithripala Senanayake Foundation
 (Incorporation)
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWA THA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.