

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 14.12.2022
w;s úfYI
wxl 2310$22 - 2022 foieïn¾ ui 14 jeks nodod - 2022'12'14
No. 2310/22 -  wedNesdAy ,  december  14,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
wESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Order made under Section 326 of the Municipal Council Ordinance (Chapter 252) read with Section 2 of 
the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
I, roshan Goonethileke, the Governor of the western Province, do hereby announce that the following Order is declared 
by me in terms of the powers vested in me under section 326 of the municipal council Ordinance (chapter 252) read with 
section 2 of the Provincial councils (consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
Roshan Goonethileke,
rwP and bar VsV UsP
Phd (Hons) FIm (sri Lanka) ndc, psc,
marshal of the sri Lanka Air Force,
Governor,
western Province.
At Governors’ Office, Western Province,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
battaramulla,
On 12th day of december, 2022.
PG 6100 (E)
T-09, saliya 
2nd reading
1A -  PG 6100 — 11 (12/2022)
Provincial  Councils  Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 14.12.2022
2A
THe Order
 1. considering the developments to the sewerage system within the colombo municipal council authority area to 
satisfy the growing demand for waste water service and to develop the said sewerage system to maintain as a 
qualitative sewerage service the development of which is already being carried out by colombo municipal council 
under the financial aid of the Asian Development Bank, European Investment Bank and Sri Lanka Government; 
and according that, as a need has arisen for the colombo municipal council to levy a sewerage charge to supply 
funds for maintenance and operational matters while providing the said service as per the loan agreement signed 
between the Asian development bank and the Government of sri Lanka, even so, as there are no effective provisions 
under the municipal councils Ordinance or other such written law to decide and charge from the service recipients 
relevant service charges to maintain sewerage services ; and considering the unexpected and special situational 
matters arisen in relation to the administration of the colombo municipal council, this Order is made.
 2. This Order shall be referred to as the “Orders relating to the prescribing charges for maintaining the sewerage 
service by the colombo municipal council in relation to the authority area of the colombo municipal council.
 3. It will be legal to determine and levy charges for the sewerage services carried out by the colombo municipal 
council and within the authority area of the municipal council conforming to the provisions stipulated under 
this Order by the colombo municipal council to be in effect until provisions are allocated to maintain sewerage 
services, prescribing charges relevant to such and matters consequential to that within the colombo municipal 
council authority area under any other written law.
 4. The criteria to be applied by the colombo municipal council in determining charges under section 03 above shall 
be determined by the Commissioner of Local Government of Western Province ; and the determining of such 
charges under  this Order by the colombo municipal council shall be done subjected to the criteria determined 
and prescribed by the commissioner of Local Government under these clauses.
 5. The charges levied by the colombo municipal council for sewerage services within the authority area of the  
Municipal Council under this Order shall not be in the manner exceeding the charges prescribed and levied for 
sewerage services by the National water supply and drainage board within a period of time parallel to it in any 
other limits of a Local Authority.
 6. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this Order, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail.
eOG  12 - 0151
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.