

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1721$5 - 2011 wf.daia;= 29 jeks i÷od - 2011'08'29
No. 1721/5  -  MONDAY ,  AUGUST  29,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
L.D.B. 11/79.
THE  PREVENTION  OF  TERRORISM  (TEMPORARY  PROVISIONS)  ACT,  No.  48 OF  1979
REGULATIONS made by the President under section 27 of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48
of 1979 read with paragraph (2) of Article 44 of the Constitution.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
President.
Colombo,
29th August, 2011.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Prevention of Terrorism (Surrendees Care and Rehabilitation) Regulations
No. 5 of 2011.
2. The objective of these regulations shall be to ensure, that any person who surrenders after the coming into
operation of these regulations is dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, No. 48 of
1979, and that persons who have surrendered in terms of any emergency regulation which was in force at any time prior to
coming into operation of these regulations, continue in terms of these regulations, to enjoy the same care and protection
which they were previosly enjoying.
3.   (1) The President may by Order appoint by name or by office, a person to be the Commissioner - General of
Rehabilitation for the purposes of this regulation.
  (2)  Any person who surrenders (hereinafter referred to as the “surrendee”) in connection with any offence
under the Explosives Act, the Offensive Weapons Act, No. 18 of 1966, the Firearms Ordinance, the Prevention of Terrorism
(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979 or under Chapter VI, Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the Penal Code or under any
emergency regulation which was in force prior to August 30, 2011, or through fear of terrorist activities, to any police officer,
or any member of the armed forces, or to any public officer or any other person or body of persons authorized by the
President by Order, shall be required to give a written statement to the officer or person authorized to the effect that he is
surrendering voluntarily.
4. The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject of Defence shall, from time to time approve
Centres to be known as “Protective Accommodation and Rehabilitation Centres” (hereafter referred to as “the Centre”) for
the purpose of receiving and keeping surrendees.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
2A
5. (1) The officer or person to whom a person surrenders in terms of paragraph (2) of regulation 3, shall, within
ten (10) days of such surrender hand over the surrendee to the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation who shall assign
such surrendee to a Centre. The Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation shall upon assigning the surrendee to a Centre,
endeavour to provide the surrendee with appropriate vocational, technical or other training during his stay at the Centre.
(2) The officer or any other person to whom a person surrenders in terms of paragraph (2) of regulation 3 shall
inform the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister  in-charge of the subject of Defence, no later than ten (10) days of the
surrender, that a voluntary surrender has been made and such person was handed over to the Commissioner-General of
Rehabilitation in the manner set out in paragraph (1) of this regulation.
6. (1) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subject of Defence is assigned, shall on being
informed in terms of paragraph (2) of regulation 5 by the officer or person to whom the surrendee surrendered, that the
surrendee has been handed over to the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation, shall make an order authorizing the
Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation to keep such surrendee for a period not exceeding twelve months in the first instance
at the Centre to which he has been assigned. Such period will be computed from the date of handling over of such surrendee
by the officer or person as the case may be, to the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation.
(2) The Commissioner-General shall within a period of two months of the date of the surrendee being handed
over to him, forward a Report to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject of Defence indicating
the nature of the rehabilitation being carried out in respect of the surrendee.
7.  A surrendee assigned to a Centre may with the permission of the officer in-charge of the Centre be entitled to
meet his parents, or relations or guardian as the case may be, once in every two weeks.
8. (1) The Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation shall prior to the expiration of the aforesaid period of twelve
months, forward to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject of Defence, a report stating whether
in his opinion it is appropriate to release the surrendee or to extend for a further period the rehabilitation of such surrendee.
(2) At the end of the period of twelve months the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subject
of Defence is assigned, may, after perusal of the report submitted to him under paragraph (1) of this regulation by the
Commissiner-General of Rehabilitation,-
(a) order the release of such person; or
(b) extend the period of rehabilitation for periods of three months at a time, so however that the aggregate
period of such extensions shall not exceed a further twelve months Each such extension shall be made
on the recommendation of the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation.
(3) The surrendee shall, at the end of the extended period of rehabilitaiton, be released.
9. (1) The Superintendent of Police of the Division in-charge of the division within which a person surrendered
in terms of paragraph (2) of regulation 5 may, after the expiration of three months from the date of his being assigned to a
Centre, with prior written approval of Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject of Defence, investigate
the involvement of any surrendee who is suspected of being connected with, or concerned in, the commission of an offence
set out in paragraph (2) of regulation 3 of these regulations.
(2) Where at the end of any trial a surrendee is found guilty of the offence in connection with which he is
charged or indicted, the Court may in determining the sentence to be imposed on him take into consideration the fact of his
surrender. The Court may where appropriate, order that such surrendee be subjected to a further period of rehabilitation as
may be determined by Court, at a Centre.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
3A
(3) Where a surrendee found guilty of an offence and subjected to a further period of rehabilitation by the
Order of Court in terms of paragraph (2) of regulation 8, acts in a manner detrimental to the rehabilitation programme or the
interest of the other surrendees at the Centre, the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation may on production of such person
before the Court which sentenced him present such facts to Court and the Court may after such summary inquiry as the Court
thinks fit, make order sentencing him to imprisonment in lieu of such further period of rehabilitation.
10. (1) The Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation shall, in consultation with the District Secretary of any District,
the relevant Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services and the Chairman, National Child Protection
Authority, take steps to indentify suitable locations for the establishment of-
(a) Protective Child Accommodation Centres for the purpose of accommodating any person under eighteen
years of age, (hereinafter referred to as a “child surrendee”) who surrenders or is arrested in terms of
paragraph (3) of this regulation; and
(b) Protective Child Rehabilitation Centres for the purpose of providing care, psychosocial support, and
vocational and other training for the facilitation of the process of re-integration of a child surrendee
into his family, community and into society.
(2) As and when such locations are identified as provided for in paragraph (1), the Commissioner-General shall
by Notification published in the Gazette, specify the type of Centre being established and the location at which such Centre
has been established.
(3) Where a person under eighteen years of age-
(a) who has been subjected to debt bondage, forced or compulsory labour, or slavery, or has been
forcibly recruited as a combatant in an armed conflict or has been subjected to an offence under
section 360C of the Penal Code; or
(b) who has committed or is suspected of having committed an offence during any period in which he was
subjected to debt bondage, forced or compulsory labour, or slavery, or was forcibly recruited as a
combatant in an armed conflict or was subjected to an offence under section 360C of the Penal Code;
or
(c) who through fear of threats or reprisals by any party to the said armed conflict, or who through fear of
being subjected to debt bondage, forced or compulsory labour, or slavery, or being forcibly recruited
as a combatant in an armed conflict or being subjected to an offence under section 360C of the Penal
Code,
surrenders to, or is arrested by, any police officer or any member of the armed forces or surrenders to any public
officer or any other person or body of persons authorized by the President in that behalf, such police officer or member of the
armed forces or public officer or other person or body of person authorized by the President, shall record the statement of
such child surrendee and the circumstances in which such child surrendee surrendered or was arrested.
11. Forthwith upon the recording of such information, the officer in charge of the police station or the unit of the
armed forces to which such child surrendee has surrendered or by which he was arrested, or if he has surrendered to a public
officer or any other person or body of person authorized by the President, a senior officer of the department, office,
institution or organization to which such public officer belongs, or such other person or body of persons shall ensure the
custody of such child surrendee-
(a) in a place which is apart from the adult surrendees or detainees, if any; and
(b) where the child surrendee is a female,-
(i) in a place which is seperated from child or adult male surrendees and detainees, if any;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
4A
(ii) in the charge, care and custody of a female officer of the police or a female member of the armed
forces who shall respectively be assigned for that purpose, by the officer in charge of the police
station or of the unit of the armed forces to which he has surrendered, or where the child surrendee
has surrendered to a public officer, or any other person or body of persons authorized by the
President, be in the charge, care and custody of a female officer of the department, office, institution
or organization to which such public officer or other person or body of persons as the case may
be, authorized by the President belongs, and specifically assigned for the purpose by a senior
officer of such department, office, institution or organization.
12. (1) If the child surrendee has surrendered to or is arrested by, any member of the armed forces or to any public
officer or any person or body of persons authorized by the President, such member of the armed forces or such public officer
or any such person or body of persons shall forthwith cause a record to be made substantially in Form No.1 set out in the
Schedule to these regulations in duplicate, and shall and no later than twenty-four hours after such surrender, cause such
child surrendee to be produced at the nearest police station. The original copy of the record made in Form No. 1 shall be
handed over to the officer in charge of the police station and the duplicate of such record shall be retained by the person
making the record. The officer in charge of the police station shall record of the statement of such child surrendee as well as
the record of the circumstances in which such child surrendee surrendered, shall be handed over to the police at the time of
such production.
(2) The officer in charge of the Police Station shall maintain a record, substantially in Form No. 2 set out in the
Schedule to these regulations, in respect of such child surrendee.
13. (1) Where the child surrendee has surrendered to or has been arrested by, the police, or has been produced at
the police station by any member of the armed forces or by any pubilc officer or any person or body of persons authorized
by the President, the officer in charge of such police station shall forthwith take all measures to inform the parents or guardian
of such child surrendee, the Probation Officer and the Co-ordinator of the National Child Protection Authority for such area,
of the fact of such surrender and shall within twenty four hours of such surrender produce such child surrendee before the
relevant Magistrate.
(2) The Magistrate before whom such child surrendee is produced shall-
(a) interview such child surrendee in camera either in court or at such Magistrate’s residence, in
cosultation with such Probation Officer, assisted where necessary by the police, the Child
Rights Promotion Officer or the Co-ordinator of the National Child Protection Authority and,
where possible, the parents of the child surrendee.
Provided that the Magistrate shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the mother
tongue of the child surrendee is used for the conduct of such interview, or where it is not
possible to do so, that an instantaneous translation of such interview is provided;
(b) order a medical examination of such child surrendee;
(c) order such Probation Officer to prepare, in consultation with the Child Rights Promotion
officer and the  Co-ordinator of the National Child Protection Authority for the area, within
one month of the date on which such child surrendee was produced before him, a social
inquiry report wherein the immediate and long term needs of the child surrendee are clearly
set out;
(d) return the child surrendee to the charge, care and custody of his parents or guardians or make
order that the child surendee be placed in a Protective Child Accommodation Centre, for a
period of one month, supported and monitored by the Provincial Commissioner of Probation
and Child Care Services and forthwith communicate to the Commissioner/General of
Rehabilitation the address at which such child surrendee is to be accommodated:

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
5A
Provided however that where there is evidence the child surendee has engage in and armed
conflict as a combatant, the magistrate shall refer him to a Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre
for a period of one year for the purpose of assessment.
14. (1) Where the child surrendee has been accommodated in a Protective Child Accommodation Centre, the
Magistrate shall, at the end of the period of one month referred to in sub-paragraph (d) of the paragraph (2) of regulation 13
determine, having regard to the results of such examination and interview, and the social inquiry report reffered to in sub-
paragraph (c) of paragraph (2) of regulation 13 and with the assistance of the police-
(a) whether such child surrendee should be returned to the charge, care and custody of his
parents or guardians;
(b) whether such child surrendee should be accommodated for a period not exceeding one year
in a Protective Child Accommodation Centre under the care and supervision of the Provincial
Commissioner of Probation and Child care Services; or
(c) whether such child surrendee should be places in a “Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre”,
for a period not exceeding one year:
Provided that, where there is evidence that the child surendee has committed an offence
during any period in which he was recruited as a combatant, the Magistrate shall place him
in a Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre for period not exceeding one year:
Provided further, the Magistrate may in the exercise of his powers of review referred to
above, in respect of such child surendee require the person in charge of the Protective Child
accommodation Centre in which such child is placed, to forward to him quarterly reports in
respect of such child.
(2) ( a) In arriving at the determination referred to in paragraph (1) the Magistrate shall have regard-
(i) to the necessity to ensure the protection and the best interests of the child surrendee;
and
(ii) the need to effect family reunification or placement within the extended family, taking
into consideration the necessity to ensure at all times, the safety of the child surrendee
and his family.
(b) Upon the making of his determination, the Magistrate shall forthwith cause a copy of his determination
along with his recommendation as to the period for which the child surrendee is to be accommodated at the Protective Child
Accommodation Centre or the Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre, as the case may be, and the address of the place where
such child surrendee is accommodated, kept or resides, to be communicated to the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation.
15. The Magistrate before whom a child surrendee is produced under the provisions of this regulation or who
arrives at a determination under the provisions of paragraph (2) of regulation 13, shall direct that child friendly procedures are
adopted-
(a) at the medical examination and at the interview conducted under paragraph (2) of the regulation 13; and
(b) at the Protective Child Accommodation Centre and the Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre to which the
child surrendee may be sent,
and shall also ensure that the child surrendee is treated with courtesy, consideration and kindness.
16. (1) If the Magistrate orders that such child surrendee be returned to his parents or guardian he shall order that
the Probation Officer supported by the Child Rights Promotion Officer or the Co-ordinator of the National Child Protection

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
6A
Authority, monitor the process of re-integration of such child surrendee into his family and into society, along with his
progress thereafter for a period of one year from the date of return to his parents or guardian. Such Probation Officer, Child
Rights Promotion Officer or Co-ordinator of the National Child Protection Authority as the case may be, shall undertake
monthly visits to such child surrendee and forward monthly reports on his progress to the Court, as well as to the Provincial
Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services.
(2) The Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services shall take all measures to ensure that the
child will benefit from the reintegration services available in the district. Such reintegration services shall be co-ordinated by
the Chairman of the District Child Development Committee (DCDC) in collaboration with other child protection agencies in
the District. The Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services shall also maintain a record, substantially in
the Form No. 3
(3) The Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services shall forward quarterly reports on the
progress of such child to the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation.
17. Where the Magistrate orders that a child surrendee shall be accommodated at a Protective Child Accommodation
Centre, such Magistrate shall, if such Protective Child Accommodation Centre is located in a judicial division other than the
judicial division over which such Magistrate has jurisdiction, transfer the record relating to such child surrendee to the
Magistrate having jurisdiction over the area in which such Protective Child Accommodation Centre is located.
18.  (1) The officer in charge of the Protective Child Accommodation Centre at which such child surrendee is
accommodated , shall-
(a) cause such child surrendee to be examined by a medical officer and take necessary measures to
provide him with necessary health care;
(b) provide him with psychosocial counselling in accordance with the needs of such child surrendee
indentified in the social inquiry report, required under regulation 16;
(c) facilitate and encourage visits by and contact with the family at least once in every two weeks;
(d) provide the necessary physical care and sustenance for the child;
(e) assist the child to obtain the necessary identification and other documents which he is lawfully
entitled to obtain and which he does not presently possess;
(f) provide the child with education or appropriate vocational, technical and other training with a view to
equipping him to pursue a career of his choice;
(g) prepare monthly reports and submit them to the Magistrate, the Probation Officer and the Commissioner
General of Rehabilitation which reports shall contain information regarding any changes on the current
status of the child surrendee, the training and facilities being accorded to him and the progress of such
child surrendee;
(h) the Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services shall maintain a recored substantially
in Form No. 3 specified in the Schedule to these regulations in respect of each child surrendee.
(2) The officer in charge of the Protective Child Accommodation Centre shall maintain a record substantially in
Form No. 4 specified in the Schedule to these regulations.
19. The Magistrate to whom the reports referred to in regulation 18 are submitted, shall take all such measures as
may be necessary to monitor the progress of such child surrendee and, where he is of the opinion that it would be more
appropriate for such child surrendee to be accommodated at a Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre or returned to the
custody, care and control of his parents, or guardian, transfer such child surrendee to such Protective Child Rehabilitation
Centre or return him to the custody, care and control of his parents.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
7A
20. Where the Magistrate orders that such child surrendee be acccommodated at a Protective Child Rehabilitation
Centre, or that such child surrendee be returned to the custody, care and control of his parents or guardian, he shall cause-
(a) the Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation to be informed of the address of the place to which such child
surrendee has been transferred or sent; and
(b) a certified copy of his order to be issued to the parents or the guardian as the case may be and also to the
police.
21. If the Magistrate orders that a child surrendee be placed in a Protective Child Rehabilitaiton Centre and if such
Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre is located in a judicial division other than the judicial division over which such
Magistrate has jurisdiction,
(a) such Magistrate shall transfer the record relating to such child surrendee to the Magistrate having jurisdiction
over the area in which such Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre is located; and
(b) the probation officer who has been assigned to monitor the progress of such child surrendee shall transmit
all relevant records and reports relating to such child surrendee to the relevant probation officer having
jurisdiction over the area in which such Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre is located.
22. (1) The officer in charge of the Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre in which such child surrendee is placed
shall-
(a) cause such child surrendee to be examined by a medical officer and  take necessary measures to
provide him with the necessary health care;
(b) provide him with psychosicial counseling in accordance with the needs of such child surrendee
indentified in the social inquiry report prepared under regulation 18;
(c) facilitate and encourage visits by and contact with his family at least once a month;
(d) provide the necessary sustenance and physical care for the child surendee;
(e) assist the child surendee to obtain the necessary identification and other documents which he is
lawfully entitled to obtain and which he does not presently possess;
(f) provide a child surendee with education or appropriate vocational, technical and other training with a
view to equipping him to pursue a career of his choice;
(g) prepare quarterly reports, and submit them to the Magistrate, the probation officer and the Commissioner
General of Rehabilitation, which reports shall contain information regarding any changes on the
current status of the child surrendee, the training and facilities being accorded to him and the progress
of such child surrendee;
(h) the Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services shall maintain a record substantially
in Form No. 3 specified in the Schedule to these regulations in respect of each child surrendee.
(2) The officer in charge of the Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre shall maintain a recored substantially in
Form 4 specified in the Schedule to these regulations.
23. (1) The Magistrate to whom the reports referred to in regulation 18 are submitted shall-
(a) review his decision to accommodate or place as the case may be any such child surrendee at a
Protective Child Accommodation Centre or a Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre once a month in

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
8A
the case of a Protective Child Accommodation Centre and once in three months in the case of a
Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre to ensure proper monitoring of the progress and security of the
child surrendee; and
(b) where he is of the opinion that it would be more appropriate for such child surrendee to be accommodated
at another centre in another district or returned to the custody, care and control of his parents or
guardian, shall transfer such child surrendee to such other centre, or hand the child surrendee to the
custody, care and control of his parents or guardian.
(2) The officer in charge of the Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre shall maintain a record substantially in
Form No. 4 specified in the Schedule to these regulations.
24. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
“debt bondage” “forces or compulsory labour” and “slavery” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
the penal Code (Chapter 19);
“Probation Officer”, “Child Rights Promotion Officer” and “Co-ordinator for the National Child Protection
Authority” means respectively the Probation Officer, the Child Rights Promotion Officer and the Co-
ordinator for the National Child Protection Authorty who has jurisdiction over the area in which a child
surrendee sureendered or in which he is accommodated or kept in a Protective Child Accommodation
Centre or a Protective Child Rehabiliation Centre;
“Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station” means the officer-in-charge of the Police station having jurisdiction
over the area in which the surrender took place;
“Magistrate” means the Magistrate having jurisdiction over the area in which the child surendee surrendered or
over the area in which the child surrendee is accommodated at a Protective Child Accommodation
Centre or placed in a Protective Child Rehabilitation Centre as provided for in this regulation.”
Serial No.:
SCHEDULE
(Regulation 12 (1) )
F
ORM NO. 1
FORM TO BE USED IN RESPECT OF EACH CHILD SURRENDEE BY THE PERSON TO WHOM A CHILD SURRENDEE
SURRENDERS OR BY WHOM A CHILD IS ARRESTED
(To be filled in Duplicate)
1. Name
2. Age
3. Sex
4. Address
5. Date, time and place of surrender-arrest
6. Circumstances of Surrendee
7. Date, time and place of handing over to Police
8. Name and signature of officer handing over
child surrendee
9. Name and signature of police officer receiving
child surrendee

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
9A
FORM NO. 2
(Regulation 12 (2))
FORM TO BE USED IN RESPECT OF EACH CHILD SURRENDEE BY THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF THE POLICE
STA TION
1. Name
2. Age
3. Sex
4. Address
5. Date, time and place of surrender-arrest
6. Date and time of notice to parents
7. Date and time of notice to Probation Officer
8. Date and time of notice to NCPA Coordinator
9. Whether kept seperate from adult detainees
10. If female whether custody given to a female
officer-give name of officer
11. Date and time of production before
Government Medical Officer
12. Date and time of production before Magistrate
13. Name of police officer accompanying the child
14. Date and time of medical examination
15. Interim order by Magistrate
16. Date and time of notice sent to Commissioner
General of Rehabilitation
F
ORM NO. 3
(Regulation 16 (2), 22 (1) (h), 18 (1) (h))
FORM TO BE USED IN RESPECT OF EACH CHILD SURRENDEE BY THE PROVINCIAL COMMISSIONER OF
PROBATION AND CHILD CARE SERVICES
1. Name
2. Age
3. Sex
4. Address
5. Date and time of notice from Police
6. Name of allocated Probation Officer
7. Whether interim assessment carried out and
when reported to Court
8. Interim Order by Magistrate-date and placement
9. Whether full social inquiry carried out and
when reported to Court
10. Reintegration order by Magistrate-date and
placement
11. Placement reports-if received from Probation
Officer-OIC Accommodation Centre or
Rehabilitation Centre and if submitted to
Magistrate Month 1
12. Months 2

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
10A
13. Months 3 - 1st quarter
14. Months 4
15. Months 5
16. Month 6 - 2nd quarter
17. Month 7
18. Month 8
19. Month 9 - 3rd quarter
20. Month 10
21. Month 11
22. Month 12 - 4th quarter
Form No. 4
(Regulation 23 (2))
FORM TO BE FILLED BY THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF THE PROTECTIVE CHILD ACOMMODATION CENTRE
1. Name
2. Age
3. Address
4. Health Care (Whether arrested and provided for)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
5. Psychological Counselling (Monthly Reports)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
6. Visits by Family members (Dates visited and Remarks)
7. Identification and other documents (whether provided)
8. Education (Monthly Reports)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
11A
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
9. V ocational Training (Monthly Reports)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
10. Other Training (Monthly Reports)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
PRINTED A T THE DEP ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
Form No. 4 (Contd.)