

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1283
1283
wxl 1"819 - 2013 cQ,s 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'07'12
No. 1,819 – FRIDAY JULY 12, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1286
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1288
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd August, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th July,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  (i) Sri Siddhartha Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of May 17, 2013.
(ii) Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)  Bill is published  as a supplement to
the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of May 23, 2013.
(iii) Batticaloa Young Men's Christian's Association (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of May 23, 2013.
N.B.— Parts I-III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,818 of 05.07.2013 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1284
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1285
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1286
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND
WOMEN'S  AFFAIRS
Department of Probation and Child Care Services
OPEN RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF NON-FORMAL
EDUCATION INSTRUCTRESS AND POST OF COOK
APPLICATIONS are invited to fill the vacancy in the Post of Non-
formal Education Instructress and vacancies in the Post of Cook in
the Department of Probation and Child Care Services.
01. General Qualifications :
(a) The applicant should be a female citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) She should be of good character.
02. Non-formal education Instructress  :
(i) Educational Qualifications. – The applicant should have
passed not less than six (06) subjects at the General
Certificate of Educational Examination (Ordinary Level)
in one sitting with at least four credit passes including
Sinhala/Tamil/English and Mathematics ;
and
Should have passed at least one (01) subject at the General
Certificate of Educational Examination (Advanced Level)
(Other than the Common General Test).
Professional Qualifications.– Professional Qualifications
in the relevant field, will be considered as a special
qualifications.
Experience.– Two years or more than two years service
experience as a teacher/instructress in Non-formal
Educational Affairs in an institute recognized by the
government.
(ii) Age limit. – The applicant should not be less than 18
years and not more than 30 years of age, on the closing
date of applications (The upper age limit will not be
applicable to those already in Public Service).
(iii) Salary Scale .– Salary Bracket - MN - 1-2006A (As per
the P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(IV).
Salary Scale .– Rs. 13,120 -10x145 -11x170 - 10x240 -
10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
(iv) Method of Recruitment .– Applicants who obtain the
highest marks at the structured interview will be recruited.
Headings under which marks will be given at the structured
interview :
1. Additional Educational - Maximum Marks 25
Qualifications
2. Course on Children and - Maximum Marks 10
Youth Protection
3. Training in Social Work, - Maximum Marks 10
Children's Homes and
Child Protection
4. Additional experience - Maximum Marks 30
5. Computer Training - Maximum Marks 10
6. Knowledge in English - Maximum Marks 10
Language
7. Merits display at the - Maximum Marks 05
interview
03. Post of Cook :
(i) Educational Qualifications .– The applicant should have
passed six (06) subjects at the General Certificate of
Education examination in not more than two sittings with
at least two (02) credit passes.
Professional qualifications .– The applicant should have
followed a course in cooking, not less than second or
third level of National Vocational Qualification (NVQ)
under the National Apprenticeship Board or at an institute
approved by the Ministry of the V ocational Training.
Experience.– Experience relevant to the post is considered
as a special qulaification.
(ii) Age limit. – The applicant should not be less than 18
years and not more than 45 years of age, on the closing
date of applications (The upper age limit will not be
applicable to those already in Public Service).
(iii) Salary Scale.– Salary Bracket - PL - 2-2006A (As per the
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(IV).
Salary Scale.– Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -10 x145 - 10x160 -
12x170 - Rs. 18,600.
(iv) Method of Recruitment.– Applicants who have gained
the highest qualification will be recruited to the post in
order of total marks obtained for the vocational test and
the structural interview.
Exemption (A).– Number of Applicants equal to five  (05)
times the number of applicants to be recruited will be
called for the structured interview in order of merits of
applicants who have passed the vocational test from among
those who have fulfilled basic qualifications.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1287
Headings under which marks will be given at the vocational
test :
1. Basic Knowledge relevant - Maximum Marks 20
to the field
2. Knowledge about kitchen - Maximum Marks 20
utensils
3. Ability to identify defects - Maximum Marks 40
in kitchen utensils
4. Use of utensils - Maximum Marks 20
Headings under which marks will be given at the vocational
test :
1. Additional education - Maximum Marks 20
qualifications
2. Additional professional - Maximum Marks 35
qualifications
3. Experience - Maximum Marks 30
4. Language proficiency - Maximum Marks 10
5. Merits displayed at the - Maximum Marks 05
interview
04. Conditions of Service :
(a) The post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicants should contribute to the Widow's/Widower's
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(b) The provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka and Public Service
Commission No. 1,589/30 as well as the general
conditions in the Procedural Regulations published in
the Gazette Extra-ordinary dated 20.02.2009 are
applicable to the selected applicants. They will also be
subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code,
Financial Regulations and Departmental Orders already
issued or that may be issued hereafter by the government.
(c) The selected applicants should be physically and
mentally fit to serve is any part of the island. She should
pass a government medical test to be held for this purpose.
(d) The selected applicant will be subject to a probation
period of three (03) years from the date of appointment
to the post.
(e) Every officer recruited not in the medium of official
language, should obtain proficiency in the official
language, during the probation period. In terms of Public
Administration Circular 07/2007, the selected candidate
should also obtain language proficiency level II, within 5
years from the date of appointment to this post. Failure
to obtain language proficiency within the prescribed
period will result in the suspension of salary increment
of the officer.
05. Method of Applying :
(a) Applications prepared in A4 size paper, using both sides,
according to the specimen form given in the notification
should be sent by registered post, addressed to
Commissioner of Department of Probation and Child
Care Services, No. 69, S. de S. Jayasinghe Mawatha,
Kohuwala, Nugegoda to reach her before 26.07.2013.
(b) Those who are in Public Service at present should
forward their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments. "Application for the Post of
Assistant Warden - 2013" should be written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
To confirm relevant educational and professional
qualifications, photocopies of certificates, certified by
the applicant should be submitted with the application.
(c) Applications not duly filled in every respect, without
basic qualifications and applications received after the
closing date will be rejected. The receipt or the rejection
of the application will be not informed.
06. Submission of false in formation .– If it reveals any time
before the appointment is given that the applicant is not eligible for
the post, the candidature will be cancelled. If it reveals after the
appointment is made that false information has been given or correct
ifnormation has been concealed purposely by the applicant, the
appointee will be dismissed from service.
07. The decision of the Commissioner, Probation and Child
Care Services will be final on issues pertaining to matters in the
notification calling for applications or any matters not revealed by
this notification.
M. Y
AMUNA PERERA,
Commissioner,
Probation and Child Care Services.
Departemnt of Probation and Child Care Services,
No. 69, S. de S. Jayasinghe Mawatha,
Kohuwala, Nugegoda,
26th June, 2013.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ........................... IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROBATION AND CHILD CARE SERVICES
01. ( a) Applicant's name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
Applicant's name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
02. ( b) Full name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
Full name :–––––––––––.
(In Englihs block capital letters)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1288
03. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
04. Present address :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card No. :
04. Male/Female :–––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
06. Nationality :–––––––––––.
07. Civil status :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) Year :–––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
G. C. E. (A/L) Year :–––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
09. Other qualifications :
(i) –––––––––––
(ii) –––––––––––
(iii) –––––––––––
(iv) –––––––––––
(v) –––––––––––
I ........................... do hereby declare that the particulars
furnished above are true and accurate. I am also aware that I have
never been dismissed from the Public Service or sent on retirement
been treated as a person who had vacated a post in the Public
Service. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to be disqualified before
selection or to be dismissed without payment of compensation, if
such detection is made after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for those applicants in
the Public Services
I certify that Mrs./Miss ........................... works at present in
this Ministry/Department as a ........................ on a permanent/
temporary/casual basis and I can/cannot release her if selected for
appointment for this post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
07–342
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  I  OF
THE  GOVERNMENT  TRANSLATORS'  SERVICE – 2012(2013)
1ST paragraph of the Tamil Gazette notification for "Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class I of the Government Translators'
Service - 2012(2013)", published in the Gazette of No. 1,817 dated 28th June 2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, is
revised as below.
"An Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the Translators' Service, as provided for in paragraph 08 of the
Translators' Service Minute published in the Government Gazette Extraordinary No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, will be held in Colombo by
the Commissioner General of Examinations in the Month of October 2013. Candidates may appear for the examination either in Sinhala,
Tamil or English media. The language medium of examination applied initially will not be allowed to change."
02. Other provisions set out in that gazette notification shall further remain effective.
K. V . P. M. J. GAMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
28th of June, 2013.
07–394

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1289
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of Graduates in Allied Health Sciences for Orientation and Co-ordinating Courses of
Professions Supplementary to Medicine
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess a Degree in Allied Health Sciences obtained from National Universities
to recruit for the following Courses of Professions Supplementary to Medicine in the Ministry of Health.
1. Eligible persons will be selected for each training course according to the merit list prepared as per the order of the date on which
the degree completed (Effecting date of the degree). The number of graduates to be the recrutied will be decided considering the number of
vacancies exist by the date of recruitment.
2. Educational and other Special Qualifications Relevant to the Post :
Code Number Orientation and Co-ordinating Course Degree to be completed
01 Medical Laboratory Technologist Bsc. MLT
02 Pharmacist B. Pharm
Bsc. Pharmacy (Special)
03 Physio Therapist Bsc. Physiotherapy
04 Radiographer Bsc. Radiotherapy Bsc. Radiography
3. Other General Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age by 26.07.2013.
(b) The effective date of the degree should be a date prior to the closing date.
(c) Should be fit mentally and physically.
(d) Should have continuously resided 3 years immediately proceeding the closing date within the district from which he/she is
applying.
4. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form of application attached herewith. For this papers
of size A4 should be used. Cages from 01-09 of the application should appear on the first side of the page and cages from
10-13 should appear on the second side of the page.
(b) Affix stamps of the value of Rs. 300 so as not to be detached in the place where "Stamps" is mentioned and cross the stamps
by placing the signature.
(c) Candidate's signature should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/on officer in the Sri Lanka
Educational Administrative Service/a Principal of a Government School/a Justice of the Peace/an Attorney at Law/or a
public officer who holds a permanent and pensionable post and obtains a consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(d) The words “Recruitment of Graduates in Allied Health Sciences as Trainees for the Training in the Professions Supplementary
to Medicine - 2013” and relevant degree and the academic year should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the
application in which the duly completed application is enclosed and should be sent to reach “Director, Admin 02,
Suwasiripaya, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10” before 26.07.2013 under registered
cover.
(e) The graduates who are employed on contract basis in the institutes under the Ministry of Health should also submit
applications subject to the conditions in this Gazette notification if they wish to get a permanent post.
5. Employees in government or semi government institutes should submit their applciations through the respective Head of the
Department. The applicants should note that this an external recruitment and no one will be reinstated to the current post either he/she will
be able or not able to complete the training successfully.
6. Receipt of applications will not be informed.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1290
7. The applications which will be received after the closing date will be rejected.
8. The applications which are not complying to the terms and the relevant specimen form given in this notification will be rejected
without any notice.
9. Among the applicants who have satisfied the above qualifications, only those who are selected on the priority list which is
prepared according to the effective date of the degree, will be called for the interview. In case where it is difficult to select considering the
effective date of the degree selections will be made considering the Grade Point Average (GPA). Applicants should submit the original copies
of the following documents at the interview.
(a) Birth Certificate.
(b) Degree Certificate (a certified copy should be sent attaching to the application).
(c) Original certificates indicating the results of G . C. E. (O/L) and G . C. E. (A/L) Examinations.
(d) National Identity Card or Passport or Driving License (Certified copies should be sent attaching to the application).
(e) According to above 5(d), a certificate issued by Grama Niladhari and counter signed by Divisional Secretary to confirm the
residence (certificate of the Grama Niladhari).
10. Training Procedure :
Code No. Orientation and Co-ordinating Course Duration of the Course Medium in which the course
should be followed
1 Medical Laboratory Technologist 6 months English
2 Pharmacist 6 months English
3 Physio Therapist 6 months English
4 Radiographer 6 months English
(i) From the applicants who are interviewed, the selected applicants will be attached to training schools for following the
relevant orientation and co-ordinating course. The course should be followed in the medium of English.
(ii) Trainees attached to the training schools will be subject to the rules and regulations prevail in the training schools and the
orders imposed by the Ministry of Health time to time.
(iii) The training of those who will not complete the training successfully at the end of the training period or whose work and
conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to comply with the conditions in the training school may be terminated without
compensation at any time.
(iv) A monthly allowance of Rs. 12,360 will be paid to the trainees.
(v) At the time you are admitted to the training school, you should enter into an agreement and bond of security with the
Director General of Health Services that you will complete the training successfully, that you will not leave the training
programme and that you will serve in the relevant post at least for a period of 10 years in the hospitals or Health
Department of the Provincial Council or line Ministry to which you are appointed. If you will be given the appointment
after completing the said entire training in case where you resign or leave the training during the training period or your
training is terminated as per the above Section III or you fail to serve in the relevant post for a period of 10 years in the
Department of Health after appointment, the allowance paid to you during the training period. Expenses born by the
government and the amount of the security bond should be paid to the Department of Health by you. If not legal actions
will be instituted to charge that amount.
11. Terms of Employment. – At the end of the training it will be decided to grant/not to grant the permanent appointments
considering the number of existing appointment. Accordingly, if the Ministry of Health decides to grant permanent appointments in the
relevant post, actions will be taken to appoint the candidates to the Class III of the relevant Post in accordance with the con ditions in the
scheme of recruitment relevant to the course concerned when recruiting to the training.
12. Applicants are required to be extremely careful in mentioning the educational and other qualifications. If the certificates
relevant to the above qualifications are found to be false after recruitment to the training or appointment, investigations will be carried out

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1291
by the Department of Criminal Investigations and appointment granted to such applicant will be cancelled and he/she will be dismissed from
the training/service and disciplinary actions will be taken against such applicant and steps will be taken to include his/her n ame into the
blacklist - which includes the names of the persons who will not be allowed to enter public service again. Further he/she will be changed the
allowance paid by the government expenses of the government and the amount of the security furnished.
13. Selected applicants should submit themselves for a medical examination in the first month of the training to find whether the
applicant is physically and mentally fit to be trained for the relevant course and serve in any part of the island and if an applicant is found
to be unfit by the medical examination he/she will be disqualified for the training.
14. All selected as above will be subject to all Laws and Regulations Relevant to the Public Officers and to the provisions of the
Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka policies imposed by the Department of Health. Financial Regulations,
other regulations and any other orders or regulations that may be issued by the government from time to time.
15. If any problem arises regarding any matter covered or uncovered by this Gazette notification on recruiting to the training.
Decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health will be final and conclusive. In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and
English texts, the text in Sinhala will prevail.
16. This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities in the Training Schools for the applicants recruited for the training. If
such facilities provided, you will be charged a rent assessed for a housing room and the water and electricity bills.
Dr. Y . D. NIHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
'Suwasiripaya',
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
24th June, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF GRADUATES IN ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCE FOR ORIENTATION AND CO-ORDINATING TRAINING
COURSES OF PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINE
(Read the Gazette notification carefully before filling the application)
Code Number relevant to the
training course (According to
the Gazette notification)
* Name of the Course applying for :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
* Name of the Course applying for :–––––––––––.
(In English)
01. ( a) Last name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
Ex.– A. B. C. SILV A
(b) Name in full (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :
(Affix a copy)
03. Postal address : In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––– In English :––––––––––––.
––––––––––––. ––––––––––––.
04. ( a) Permanent address : In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––. In English :––––––––––––.
––––––––––––. ––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1292
(b) Telephone No. : Mobile :
Residential :
(c) District : In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––. In English :–––––––––––.
(d) Whether you are a permanent resident in the above district Yes/No :–––––––––––.
(e) If yes, Since when ? :–––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :  Year :–––––––––––  Month :–––––––––––  Date :–––––––––––.
Age as at 26.07.2013 :  Years :–––––––––––  Months :–––––––––––  Days :–––––––––––.
06. Gender : Female : Male : (Mark ‘ 3’ in the relevant cage)
07. Whether you are citizen of Sri Lanka : Yes : No :
08. Civil status : Married : Single :
09. Educational qualifications :
Name of the Degree Grade Grade point Averages (GP A) Name of the university Academic Year
10. Have you ever been convicted for any charge by a court ? Yes : No :
(Mark ‘3’ in the relevant cage)
If so, give details :–––––––––––.
11. Certificate of the Applicant :
(a) I declare on my honour that I have carefully read and understood the Gazette notification before filling the application and filled
the application subject to all the conditions mentioned there in, and I do not take part in any other full time course and the
particulars given by me in the application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in the application are found to be false I am liable to be disqulaified
for the training or dismissed from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) Further, I state that I have understood that this is an external apointment and if I fail to complete the training successfull y I
cannot be released to the present post.
Stamps
Rs. 300
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is submitting this application is personally known
to me and she/he placed his/her/signature in my presence on ............................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
–––––––––––––––,
Attestation of the applicant's.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Signature :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2013
1293
13. Certification of the Head of the Department if the applicant is in Public Service/Provincial Public Service (cut off the wo rds not
relevant) :
(i) I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who submits this application has been serving in this Department in the
post of ............................
(ii) The particulars given in the application are true and he/she, can/cannot be released from service if selected.
(iii) I further state that if was explained by me to the understanding of him/her that this is an external recruitment and she/he is
not eligible for the present post in any away whether she/he successfully completes the relevant training or not.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Official frank of the Head of the Department :–––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the Department :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
07–353
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.