

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2292$34 - 2022 wf.daia;= ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2022'08'09
No. 2292/34 -  tuesday,  august 09,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 5920 - 506 (08/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d. - B 4/2017
CIvIL  AvIATION  ACT,  No.  14  Of  2010
reguLatioNs made by the Minister of Ports, shipping and aviation under section 117 read with sections 6, 10, 11, 13, 
14, 16 and 31 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010.
 Nimal Siripala De Silv a,
 Minister of Ports, shipping and aviation.
Colombo,
03rd of august, 2022.
Regulations
1. these regulations may be cited as the sri Lanka Water aerodromes regulation No. 1 of 2022.
2.	 (a)	a	service	provider	appointed	to	provide	aeronautical	services,	specified	in	paragraphs	(b)	and	(c)	of	subsection	(3)	of	
section 6 of the act;
	 (b)	an	aircraft	owner	or	an	operator	holding	an	Air	Operator	Certificate	for	operation	of	floatplanes;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
2a
 (c) a tour, hotel or travel operator registered either with the sri Lanka tourism development auhthority or the Civil 
aviation authority of sri Lanka; or 
 (d) an owner or lawful operator of a water body,
 shall be eligible to apply for a water aerodrome licence.
3. (1)  an applicant who wishes to establish, operate or maintain a water aerodrome (hereinafter referred to as an 
“aerodrome”) shall make an application for an aerodrome licence to the director general in Form 'a' set out in the 
schedule i hereto, accompanied by -
   (a) a licence fee as may be prescribed;
   (b) a copy of the aerodrome operations manual;
  (c) an intial environmental examination report or an environmental impact assessment report on the aerodrome 
under section 23BB of the National environmental act, No. 47 of 1980;
  (d) approval for the establishment of the aerodrome from the relevant local authorities, institutions or 
departments in charge of the water bodies and the lawful owner or operator of the water bodies;
  (e) a detailed designed of the proposed construction of the aerodrome;
  (f) aerodrome data in accordance with the characteristics of the aircraft for which the aerodrome is designed 
for;
  (g)  a topographical map of the proposed aerodrome site encompassing an area of ten nautical miles from the 
centre of the aerodrome; and 
	 	 (h)	 details	of	any	significant	obstcales	present	in	approach	surface.
4. the director-general shall prior to issuing an aerodrome licence, assess the suitability of the place proposed for the 
construction of the aerodrome taking into consideration-
   (a) the proximity of the place to other aerodromes including military aerodromes;
   (b) obstacles and existing air space restrictions;
   (c) that the construction of the aerodrome is not against public interest;
   (d) condition of adjacent lands;
   (e) accuracy of the documents submitted by the applicant under regulation 3; and
	 	 	 (f)	 findings	of	the	field	inspection	and	tests	carried	out	on	the	aerodrome	facilities,	services	and	equipment.
5. (1)  the director-general-
	 	 	(a)	 shall	issue	an	aerodrome	licence	to	an	applicant	who	complies	with	the	requirements	specified	in	regulations	
3	and	4,	in	form	'B'	as	set	out	in	Schedule	I	hereto	subject	to	the	conditions	specified	in	Schedule	II	hereto;	
or 
  (b) may refuse to grant the aerodrome licence to an applicant and notify the applicant in writing, of the reasons 
for the refusal, not later than fourteen days after making such decision.
6. an aerodrome licence - 
   (a) shall be valid until or unless suspended or revoked under section 26 of the act and be renewable;
   (b) shall not be transferable.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
3a
7. (1)   an applicant who intends to be an operator of an aerodrome (hereinafter referred to as the “operator”) shall, submit 
to the director-general and application for an aerodrome licence, together with two copies of the aerodrome 
operations manual for his approval.
(2)	 The aerodrome operations manual shall-
(a)	 be signed by the operator;
(b)	 be in printed form or in the case of copies, be in printed or electronic form;
(c)	 be in a format that is easy to revise;
(d)	 include the information of employees, facilities, equipment, services and procedures that are involved in 
the operation and maintenance of the water aerodrome and related services and any other information 
as specified by the Director-General;
(e)	 have a system for recording and updating the current pages and any amendments, including a page for 
logging revision;
(f)	 be organised in a manner that facilitates the preparation, review and approval process.
(3)	 An operator shall –
(a)	 transmit a copy of the approved aerodrome operations manual to an officer authorized by the Direc-
tor-General, and keep the other approved copy at the principal place of business of the operator, for 
inspection by the authorized persons whenever the aerodrome is in operation;
(b)	 amend the aerodrome operations manual, whenever it is necessary to do so, to maintain the accuracy 
of information in such aerodrome operations manual. Any amendment to the aerodrome operations 
manual shall be made in accordance with the written directions of the Director-General according to a 
procedure that is acceptable to the Director-General;
(c)	 operate and maintain the aerodrome in accordance with the procedures set out in the aerodrome 
operations manual;
(d)	 inform the Director-General of any temporary or permanent change in the physical condition of the 
aerodrome and any other occurrence relating to the operation or maintenance of the aerodrome that may 
affect the safe operation of aircrafts;
(e)	 change the procedure set out in the aerodrome operations manual on the directions of the Director-Gen-
eral where he considers such changes to be necessary in the interests of the safety of air navigation.
8.	 (1) An operator shall, immediately after the issuance of an aerodrome licence establish an aerodrome emergency 
plan at an aerodrome, which shall-
(a)	 commensurate with the aircraft operations and activities conducted at an aerodrome;
(b)	 provide for the coordination of the actions to be taken in the event of an emergency occurring at an 
aerodrome or in its vicinity;
(c)	 include the ready availability of, and coordination with appropriate specialist rescue services.
(2)	 An emergency referred to in sub regulation (1) includes-
(a)	 an aircraft emergency;
(b) natural disasters and sabotage including bomb threats;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
4a
(c) an unlawful seizure of an aircraft;
(d) the effect of improper handling;
(e) transportation and storage of dangerous goods; and
(f)	 occurrence	of	building	fires.
(3) An emergency plan shall provide for coordination with the rescue coordination centres and for the participation of the 
following agencies whose assistance may be required in the event of an emergency, including an emergency 
that may occur outside an aerodrome-
(a)	 fire	department;
(b)	 police;
(c)	 armed forces;
(d)	 medical and ambulance services; and
(e)	 hospitals.
9.	 An operator shall establish a safety management system in accordance with the aerodrome operations manual.
10.	 An operator shall design and maintain an effective surveillance programme for the aerodrome which shall provide -
(a)	 procedures to ensure that competent aerodrome personnel execute the surveillance programme effec-
tively;
(b)	 a reporting system to ensure prompt corrections of unsafe aerodrome conditions noted during any in-
spection.
11.	(1)	 An	operator	shall	establish,	operate	and	maintain	a	fire	prevention	and	rescue	programme	with	preventive	measures	
against	any	possible	fire	on	the	aerodrome	and	identify	a	person	to	carry	out	the	fire	prevention	progamme.
(2)		Where	an	aerodrome	does	not	have	a	designated	fire	service,	the	operator	shall	arrange	with	the	Fire	Prevention	
Department	of	the	relevant	local	authority	in	the	area	or	any	other	fire	prevention	authority	to	maintain	a	fire	
extinguishing and prevention programme for the aerodrome and to advice the operator of any dangerous conditions 
for	rectification.
12.	 Every	licenced	aerodrome	shall	have	identification	signs-
(a) to indicate that the aerodrome is licenced;
(b)	 containing	the	information	specified	in	the	aerodrome	standards;
(c) which shall be displayed conspicuously at more than one place around the water body.
13.	 The	Director-General	shall,	before	an	aerodrome	licence	is	issued	and	subsequently	at	any	other	time,	for	the	purpose	
of ensuring that safety at an aerodrome is maintained-
(a)	 inspect	and	carry	out	tests	on	the	aerodrome	facilities,	services	and	equipment;
(b)	 verify the safety management system of the aerodrome;
(c)	 update the register of licenced aerodromes with relevant information pertaining to physical characteristics 
and	operation	conditions	as	may	be	specified	in	Schedule	II.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
5a
14.	 the director-general shall suspend an aerodrome licence where-
(a) the operator prevents any person authorized by the director-general from carrying out a safety inspection 
or audit in accordance with these regulations;
(b) on the safety inspection or audit, it is found that the operator of the aerodrome has not complied 
with	these	regulations	and	has	failed	to	remedy	any	noncompliance	within	a	period	required	by	the	
Director-General	or	an	officer	authorized	by	him	in	that	behalf	after	the	inspection;
(c) it is deemed necessary by the director- general, in the interest of aviation safety; or
(d) the initial conditions of the licence is not maintained or cannot be maintained due to change of land 
use around the water body.
15.	 an operator aggrieved by the suspension of an aerodrome licence may prefer an appeal in writing to the secretary to the 
Ministry of the Minister under the provisions of the act.
16.	 (1) the director –general shall revoke an aerodrome licence where-
(a)	 the operator has abandoned operations at the aerodrome;
(b)	 the operator is in breach of any condition subject to which the aerodrome licence is issued.
(2)  Where the director-general revokes an aerodrome licence under this regulation, he shall cause a notice to that 
effect to be published at least in one local sinhala, tamil and english newspapers of the same date.
17.	 (1) Where the operator of an aerodrome wishes to surrender the licence, he shall give the director - general not less 
than ninety days notice in writing of his intention.
(2)		The	Director-General	shall	take	steps	to	revoke	aerodrome	licence	on	the	day	specified	by	the	operator.
18.	 an operator whose aerodrome licence is revoked under regulation 16 shall-
(a)	 return the aerodrome licence to the director-general;
(b)	 remove	all	aerodrome	identification	signs	from	the	aerodrome	site,	
on the day of such revocation.
19.	 the following acts shall be prohibited within an aerodrome -
(a)		 operating	the	aerodrome	contravening	any	condition	specified	either	in	the	aerodrome	licence	or	aero-
drome operations manual;
(b)   obstructing or interfering with the proper use of the aerodrome;
(c)  obstructing any person acting in the execution of his duty in relation to the aerodrome; 
(d) boarding or attempting to board any aircraft without the authority of the person in charge of it;
(e)  tampering or interfering with any aircraft or anything used in connection with an aircraft without the 
authority of the person in charge of the aircraft or thing;
(f)   smoking in or otherwise bringing or lighting any naked light onto or in any place-
	( i)	 where such act is prohibited by notice posted on or near such place;
	( ii)	 within	fifteen	metres	of	an	aircraft	or	a	store	of	liquid	fuel	or	explosive;
(g)			 any	act	causing	or	trending	to	cause	an	outbreak	of	fire;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
6a
(h) failing to place an aircraft in any place or position appointed by the person in charge for that purpose;
(i) failure to moor or otherwise properly secure a stationary aircraft;
(j) displacing, damaging, defacing or altering any structure or other property, whether movable or 
immovable (including any notice) forming part of or provided for or in connection with the aerodrome 
without the permission of the person in charge;
(k) enter upon or remain in an aerodrome to which these regulations apply in circumstances in which the 
safety or security of any aircraft or its passengers, cargo or crew is likely to be imperiled or the proper 
functioning of the aerodrome be impeded;
(l)		 flying	kites	or	using	of	laser	beam	or	any	device	which	causes	disruption	to	operating	crew.
20.	 (1) the operator shall –
(a)	 take all reasonable measures to ensure that obstacles at, or within the vicinity of the aerodrome are 
detected and reported to the director-general;
(b)	 ensure that the movement area is free of hazards during operational hours;
(c)	 take all reasonable steps to remove any object or vessel anchored, moored or otherwise within the aero-
drome in contravention of these regulations;
(d)	 be responsible for ensuring that no unauthorized person enter or remain in an aerodrome to which these 
regulations apply to promote the safety of all aircraft and their passengers, cargo and crew during oper-
ational hours;
(e)	 ensure that no person operate any device on any aerodrome to which these regulations apply which may 
cause interference to communication between aircraft and ground;
(f)	 notify the aeronautical information service (AIS), as soon as practicable (for the issue of a Notice to 
Airmen) of any aerodrome that may affect the safe operation of aircraft;
(g)	 ensure that operations are not conducted on portions of the aerodrome when unsafe condition exists 
on such aerodrome.
(2) (a) an operator shall provide and maintain at least one wind direction indicator for an aerodrome.
(b)	The	wind	direction	indicator	shall	be	located	so	as	to	be	visible	to	an	aircraft	in-flight	or	on	the	movement	area	
and in such way as to be free from the effects of air disturbances caused by nearby objects.
(c)	the characteristics of a wind direction indicator and the methods and procedures for installation and main -
tenance shall be in accordance with the methods and procedures approved by the director-general.
21.	 (1)  during operational hours an aerodrome shall be available for use by any aircraft holding approval for operation 
of	floatplanes	subject	to	payment	of	the	applicable	fees.
	 (2)  an aerodrome shall be open for aircraft operations from dawn to dusk.
 (3) owner of a water body in which an aerodrome is established and operated may charge a fee as may be prescribed 
from every aircraft operator per each landing, for the use of the water body.
22.	 (1)  the director general shall notify in writing the operator in respect of any proposed construction within 3000m of 
approach surface. in such case, the director general may not enforce obstacle control for water aerodromes and the 
construction activity shall get priority over water aerodrome operations unless otherwise decided by the Minister.
(2)	Upon receipt of a notification under sub-regulation (1), the aerodrome operator shall-

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
7a
(a)		if the approach surface is penetrated by the upcoming obstacle, inform the Director general of any 
alternate means of operation; or
(b)	 find an alternate location for the establishment of a new water aerodrome within a period of six 
months from the date of such notification.
	 (3) Where the operator wishes to establish a water aerodrome in another location he shall make an application for an 
aerodrome licence under regulation 3 and the provisions of regulations 4 and 5 shall, mutatis mutandis apply 
to and in respect of the issuance of such licence.
23.	 In	these	regulations,	unless	the	context	otherwise	requires-	
“Act” means the Civil Aviation Act, No.14 of 2010;
“approach surface” means, an inclined plane preceding the threshold where limits shall comprise-
(a)	 	an	inner	edge	of	specified	length,	horizontal	and	perpendicular	to	the	extended	centre	line	of	the	runway	
and	located	at	a	specified	distance	before	the	threshold;
(b)		 two	sides	originating	at	the	ends	of	the	inner	edge	and	diverging	uniformly	at	a	specified	rate	from	
the extended centre line of the runway;
(c)  an outer edge parallel to the inner edge; and
(d)  in lateral offset when offset or curved approaches are utilized, two sides originating at the ends of the 
inner	edge	and	diverging	uniformly	at	a	specified	rate	from	the	extended	centre	line	of	the	lateral	offset,	
offset or curved ground track;
“authority” means the Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka, established by the Civil aviation authority    of sri 
Lanka act, No.34 of 2002;
“director-general” means the director-general appointed under section 11 of the Civil aviation authority 
of sri Lanka act, No. 34 of 2002;
“floatplane”	means	a	seaplane	equipped	with	separate	floats	to	support	the	fuselage	well	above	the	water	surface;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject of Civil aviation under article 44 or 45 of the Constitution and 
the term Ministry shall be construed accordingly;
“operator of the aerodrome” shall have the same meaning assigned to that expression in the Civil aviation act, 
No. 14 of 2010;
“safety Management system” means a system for the management of safety at an aerodrome, including the 
organizational structure, responsibilities and accountabilities, procedures, processes and provisions 
for the implementation of aerodrome safety policies by an operator, which provides for the control 
of safety at an aerodrome and its safe use;
“Water	Aerodrome”	means	a	defined	area	on	a	water	body	intended	to	be	used	either	wholly	or	in	part	for	the	arrival,	
departure	and	movement	of	aircraft	including	any	building	installation	and	equipment	on	ground	or	water;
“Water	body”	means	a	significantly	whole	body	of	water	which	may	include	entire	river,	canal,	lake,	reservoir,	
sea, lagoon, bay or a port.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
8a
SCHEDULE I
[regulation 3]
fORM A
Application for Water Aerodrome Licence
1. Particulars of the Applicant
Full Name ……………………………………………………………………..……………………………………… 
address……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….
…………………….…………….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….…. 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
Position………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
2. Particulars of the Aerodrome Site
(*GPS Coordinates of the Aerodrome Reference point should be given)
Name of the aerodrome 
………………………………………………………………………………………………..………………………… 
geographical Coordinates of the aerodrome* ………………………………………………………………………… 
3. Is the Applicant the owner of the Aerodrome site?
ye
ss 
No 
if  No Provide 
a) details of rights held in relation to the site; and
b) Name and address of the owner of the site and written evidence to show that permission has been obtained for
the site to be used by the applicant as an aerodrome.
4. Indicate the largest type of Aircraft expected to use the Aerodrome
Code*………………………. 
* ICAO Aircraft Reference Code
Ye s

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
9a
5. Classification of the Aerodrome
A B C D E f
a1 a2 a3 a4 B1 B2 C1 C2 d1 d2 e1 e2 e3 e4 F1 F2 F3
6. Name, title and contact details of the Accountable manager of the Aerodrome:
 Name:……………………………………………………………………………………………………… …… 
title:…………………………………………………………………………………………………..………… 
Contact details: ………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
7. Details to be shown on the Aerodrome License
 Name of the aerodrome 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..… 
 i hereby apply for a License to operate the aerodrome. 
 
signed……………………… 
date………………………… 
Information
1.	One copy of the Aerodrome operations Manual to be submitted.
2.	Documentary evidence in support of all matters in the application may be requested.
.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
10a
fORM B
[regulation 5]
aerodrome License No.  (License No) reference: (file reference no)
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka
Aerodrome Licence  
(Name of the Water Aerodrome )
this is to certify that in pursuance of regulation 5 of the Sri Lanka Water Aerodromes Regulations No. 1 of 2022, the 
director general of Civil aviation has issued (Aerodrome operator’ s name) the aerodrome Licence for the establishment, 
operation and maintenance of (Name of the Water Aerodrome) in accordance with the terms and  conditions set out in the 
attachment hereto.
this Licence shall be valid until or unless suspended or revoked by the director general.
director general of Civil aviation. 
No. 152/1, Minuwangoda road, 
Katunayake.
Date :

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
11a
SCHEDULE II
[regulations 5 and 13]
Conditions of the Water Aerodrome Licence
1.    this Licence shall not be transferable.
2.		 The	holder	of	the	Licence	shall	comply	with	the	applicable	requirements	of	the	Implementing	Standards issued 
by the director general of Civil aviation in terms of section 120 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010 and any 
requirement	communicated	from	time	to	time	by	the	Director	General	of	Civil	Aviation.
3.  the holder of the Licence shall operate and maintain the aerodrome in accordance with the procedures  set  out in the 
approved aerodrome operations manual.
4.    the holder of the Licence shall maintain a complete, accurate and updated aerodrome operations manual.
5.   unless in case of an emergency where safety or security of aircraft, operating crew, passengers or  property  is or is 
likely to be compromised, the holder of the water aerodrome licence and its employees shall not  deviate from the 
approved	provisions	specified	in	the	aerodrome	operations	manual	without	prior	approval from the director general of 
Civil	Aviation.	Any	deviation	from	the	approved	specifications	for	reasons aforementioned, shall be communicated 
to the director general of Civil aviation forthwith togeth er with reasons thereof.
6.    the holder of the Water aerodrome Licence shall –
(a)  maintain the surroundings in coordination with the owner of the water body or the water aerodrome, as the 
case may be to ensure the safety of aircraft operations;
(b)  maintain the water aerodrome movement area clear of hazards and free of obstacles.
7. the holder of the Water aerodrome Licence shall –
(a) ensure that all aircrafts operating through the aerodrome shall be in conformity with the  requirements	
specified	on	Noise	and	Vibrations	under	Air	Navigation	Regulation	108	and associated implementing 
standards;
(b)	 ensure	to	carry	out	aircraft	movements	from	sunrise	to	sunset	subject	to	the	conditions	of	Visual Flight 
rules;
(c) ensure that no aircraft is allowed to use the aerodrome for operating internationally unless          such operations 
are	specifically	approved	by	the	Director	General	of	Civil	Aviation	in	writing;
(d) not permit aerodrome to be used by an aircraft in contravention of the applicable regulations, implementing 
standards and approved procedures;
(e)  maintain all signs, name boards using the standard symbols and information placards in conformity with 
the	requirements	of	the	approved	aerodrome	operations	manual	and	the implementing standards;
(f)		 establish	and	maintain	effective	Airport	Security	Programme	ensuring	the	requirements	of	the National 
Civil aviation security Programme is complied with;
(g) maintain a safety Management system in respect of the whole operation of the Water aerodrome;
(h)  notify the director general of Civil aviation of any of the following situations forthwith –
(i)	 aircraft accident or incident at the aerodrome or in its surrounding;
(ii)	 any incident within the aerodrome affecting safety or security of passengers;
(iii)	 breach of any safety or security requirements;
(iv)	 defect, deficiency or shortcomings that affect adversely the safety or security of aircraft 
operations of persons at the airport;
(v)	 closure of the aerodrome either temporarily or permanently;
(vi)	 disruption to aerodrome operations for any reason. 
(i) Pay the annual licence fee as may be prescribed.
eog 08-0078 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.