

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2006
1229
1229
¡â¤ 1 ,468 _ 2006  §¤àï”åà´Ú 20 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.10.20
No. 1,468 – FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER 20,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1232
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1233
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th October, 2006 should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 13th October, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2006
1230
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2006
1231
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2006
1232
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH  CARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment to the Post of Electro - Medical Technician
APPLICATIONS are invited from candidates who possess following
qualifications to fill up the vacancies existing in the post of
Electro -Medical Technician in institutions coming under the Ministry
of Healthcare and Nutrition.
01. Educational Qualifications :–
(i) Passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six
subjects in not more than two sittings at least five subjects
in one sitting including 3 Credit passes for Language,
Mathematics and Science ; and
(ii) Pass in a three year full time course in the fields of electrical
or electronics from an institution recognized by the
Government ; or
(iii)Obtain the complete Certificate of Technology on Electric
or Electronic Engineering from the City and Guilds
Institution England.
02. Age Limit.– Should be between 18 - 45 years of age as at
17.11.2006.
03. Salary Scale.– PL - 3 salary in terms of P.A. Circular No.
6/2006.
Rs. 12,360 - 10 x 110 - 10 x 120 - 10 x 130 - 12 x 140 - Rs. 17,640.
04. Conditions of Employment.– This post is permanent and
entitled for a Pension under the Contributory Pensions Fund.
05. Method of application :
(i) Application, prepared in an 8'' x 13'' size paper as per the
specimen given below should be filled in by the applicant
in his own handwriting and sent only under registered
cover to the Director (Admin.) 03, Ministry of Healthcare
and Nutrition, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 to reach him on or before
17.11.2006. Late applications will not be entertained.
(ii)The words “Application for the Post of Electro - Medical
Technician - 2006” should be clearly mentioned on the
top left hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed.
(iii)Attestation.– The signature of the applicant should be
attested by a principal of a Government School/a Justice
of the Peace/an Incumbent of a Buddhist Temple/an
incumbent of other religious place of worship or any
other religious dignitary or a public officer drawing a salary
not less than Rs. 124,080 annually.
(iv)Selection.– Applications will be short listed and the eligible
candidates will be recruited following an oral/trade test in
terms of Public Administration Circular No. 15/90 and
30/91.
Dr. H. A. P. K
AHADALIYANAGE ,
Director General of Health Services.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
04th October, 2006.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION  FOR  THE  POST  OF  ELECTRO  - MEDICAL  TECHNICIAN  IN THE
M INISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
01. (a) Name with initials :—————.
(b) Name in full :—————.
02. Residential District :—————.
Electorate :—————.
Permanent Address :—————.
03. (i) Date of Birth :—————.
Age as at 17.11.2006 :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
(ii)National Identity Card No. :—————.
04. (i) Sex :—————.
(ii)Civil status :—————.
05. Nationality :—————.
06. Educational Qualifications :—————.
(Examination/subject/grades should be clearly indicated)
07. V ocational Qualifications applicable to the post applied
for :—————.
08. Other Qualifications :—————.
I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and accurate to the best of my knowledge and I am aware that my
candidature is subject to cancellation if any information contained
herein are found to be false or incorrect before appointment and to
dismissal if it is found after the appointment.
—————,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :—————.
I certify that Mr. ……… who submits this application is
personally known to me and he placed his signature on ……… 2006
before me.
—————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :—————.
Full name of the attesting officer :—————.
10–425

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2006
1233
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS    REGULATORY
COMMISSION    OF    SRI    LANKA    (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio Operator’s
License by the Telecommunications Regulatory
Commission of Sri Lanka
CATEGORIES of Amateur Radio Operator’s Licenses :
(a) Amateur Radio Operator’s Advance Class License ;
(b) Amateur Radio Operator’s General Class License ;
(c) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class “A” License ;
(d) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class “B” License.
2. Minimum Entry Requirements.– Every candidate entering for
the examination must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on the
closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Advance Class.– The examination consists of 2 parts : –
Part 1.– Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper I.– Advanced Electrical Technology and Radio
Communications (3 hours) ;
Paper II.– Licensing conditions, operating practices and
procedures (2 hours) ;
Part 2.– Practical Morse Code Test (20 words per minute).
(b) General Class.– The Examination consists of 2 parts : –
Part 1.– Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper 1 .– Fundamentals of Electricity and Radio
Communications (2 hours) ;
Paper II.– Licensing conditions operating practices and
procedures (1  hour).
Part 2.– Practical Morse Code Test (12 words per minute).
(c) Novice Class “A”.– The Examination consists of 2 parts : –
Part 1.– Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper 1.– Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic theory (2 hours) ;
Paper II.- Licensing conditions, Operating practices and
procedures (1 hour).
Part 2.– Practical Morse Code Test (5 words per minute)
(d) Novice Class “B”.– The Examination consists of two (2)
compulsory written papers to be undertaken at one sitting : –
Paper I.– Basic electricity, Radio and Electronic Theory (2 hours);
Paper II.– Licensing conditions, operating practices and
Procedures (1 hour).
Morse Code Test is not required for a Novice Class “B” License.
4. Conditions of Examination.– The following conditions shall
apply to all categories of Amateur Radio License Examination :-
(i) To pass the Examination, the candidates should pass all
parts of the examination ;
(ii)Candidates must pass the Part I of the Examination (2
written papers) at the same sitting ;
(iii)Only those candidates who pass Part I of the Examination
will be allowed to appear for Part II(Morse Test) ;
(iv)Candidates who obtain a pass in Part I, may apply only
for Part II (Morse Test) at any successive examination.
5. Medium of Examination.– The examination will be conducted
in English Medium only.
6. Examination Fees.– Applicants who conform to the
requirements of the examination are required to remit the Examination
Fees mentioned in this notification to the ‘‘Telecommunications
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka’’. If further information in this
regard is required, the applicants are requested to write to the
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka.
The Examination fee is payable either by a Money Order or a
Pay Order/Draft from any Bank drawn in the name of the
“Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka”. The
entry form must be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or
delivered by hand. Official receipts must be retained as the
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka will not
consider any claim that a form has been overlooked or lost unless
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
Fees are not refundable or cannot be transferred from one
examination to another at a later date. Any candidate who withdraws
his application or cannot appear for the examination due to any
reason whatsoever will be required to pay approximate examination
fee for any subsequent entry.
Category of Fee for Fee for
Examination Part I Part II
Rs. Rs.
Advance Class 276 138
General Class 138 138
Novice Class (A) 138 69
Novice Class (B) 138 –

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2006
1234
7. Closing Date of Applications.– The examinations will be held
thrice each year in February, June and October. The date of
examination will be informed by the Commissioner of Examinations.
Applications must be made on the appropriate entry form obtained
from the under-mentioned Office, completed and submitted to the
address given below on or before the closing date mentioned :
Director - General of Telecommunications,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town, Colombo 08.
Category of Licence Last Date of Entry
Advance Class 24.11.2006
General Class do.
Novice Class (A) do.
Novice Class (B) do.
8. Attestation.– Candidate’s signature must be attested by one of
the following :–
A Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-Law
and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy or Air
Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, a person holding a permanent
post in the State Service drawing a consolidated salary of not less
than Rs. 42,720 per annum. All other applications will be rejected.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
9. Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity in the examination and for this purpose any of
the following documents will be accepted :
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Postmaster-General ;
(b) A Valid Passport ;
(c) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
All candidates are required to act in conformity with the Provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.
Any matter which has not been provided for under these
Rules and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the
Director- General of Telecommunications.
Director - General of Telecommunications.  
Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08,
20th October, 2006.
10–396