

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
739
739
wxl 1"663 - 2010 cQ,s ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'07'16
No. 1,663 – FRIDAY , JULY 16, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd July, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th July,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... 740
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 741
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,662 of 09.07.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
740
NORTH –WESTERN  PROVINCE
Appointments made by His Excellency the Governor in the North Western Province under Section 32(1) in the
Part IV of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987
Serial Name/Service/Class/Grade The post appointed/office/effective date
No.
01. Mr. W. G . Dayananda
S. L. A. S. Class I
02. Mr. M. A. B. V . Bandaranayaka
S. L. A. S. Class I
03. Miss. A. K. W. W. M. N. Kumari Weerasekara
S. L. A. S. Class I
04. Mrs. Padmini Kariyawasam
S. L. A. S. Class I
05. Mrs. G . K. Chandralatha
S. L. A. S. Class I
06. Mr. S. R. A. Samarakoon
S. L. A. S. Class I
07. Mr. P. B. M. Sirisena
S. L. A. S. Class I
08. Mrs. J. G . N. Dharmasiri
S. L. A. S. Class I
09. Mr. T. B. Wickramasingha
S. L. A. S. Class I
10. Mr. H. M. P. Herath
Sri Lanka Accountant Service Class I
11. Mr. Ayantha Thalgodapitiya
Sri Lanka Accountant Service
Class I (Super Grade)
12. M. M. K. Wewegedara
Sri Lanak Accountant Service
Class II/I
In terms of the order of His Excellency the Governor,
R. A. T
HILAKARATHNE,
Secretary of the Governor,
in the North Western Province.
At Govenor's Office,
On June, 2010.
07–359
Appointments &C., by the Governors
For the Post of Secretary to the Chief Ministry, North Western Province with
immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 19.04.2010
For the Post of Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Minor Irrigation,
Agrarian Development and Animal Products and Development in the North
Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 19.04.2010
For the Post of Deputy Chief Secretary (Administration) in the Chief Secretariat
with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 19.04.2010
For the Post of Provincial Commissioner in the Department of Co-operative
Development, North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the
letter dated 19.04.2010
For the Post Provincial Commissioner in the Department of Probationary and
Childcare, North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 19.04.2010
For the Post of Council Secretary in the office of North Western Provincial
Council with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 03.05.2010
For the Post of Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine,
Sports and Youth Affairs, North Western Province with immediate effect in
terms of the letter dated 03.05.2010
For the Post of Deputy Secretary (Training) in the Chief Secretariat, North
Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 03.05.2010
For the Post of Provincial Director in the Department of Textile, North Western
Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 04.05.2010
For the Post of Deputy Chief Secretary (Financial Management) in the Chief
Secretariat, North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 26.03.2010
For the Post of Chief Accountant in the Department of Education, North Western
Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 22.04.2010
For the Post of Accountant in the office of Provincial Director of Health Service,
North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated
22.04.2010

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
741
Provincial Councils Notifications
BY-LAWS
Local  Government  Institutions  (Standard)  By-laws  Act,
No.  06  of  1952
THE following by-laws formulated by me being the Minister in
charge of the subject of Local Government of the Provincial Council
in the Nroth Western Province, under Section 12 of the Local
Government (Standard by-laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 to be read with
the Provincial Councils (Incidental Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
is hereby published.
The Pradeshiya Sabhas are authorized by Section 122 to be read
with Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to
formulate by-laws incorporating provisions included in the said draft
by-laws and the relevant authority is hereby given to accept in terms
of Sub Section (3) of Section 2.
A
THULA SARATH KUMARA WIJESINHE,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Law and Peace, Local Government
and Manpower, Education and Cultural Affairs,
Land, Transport, Environment, Tourism,
Investment Co-ordinate, Co-operative and
Food Supply and Distribution.
North Western Province,
Kurunegala.
07–524/1
–––––––––––––
BY-LAWS  ON  OFFENSIVE  OR  DANGEROUS  AND
OFFENSIVE  AND  DANGEROUS  TRADES
IN these by-laws, "Offensive, dangerous and offensive and dangerous
trades" means trades specified by a resolution of the Pradeshiya
Sabha and included in the Schedule I, to these by-laws.
02. These by-laws are enacted for the purpose of regulating,
supervising controlling and administering the trades stated in the
by-law I, above.
03. No person shall carry on any offensive or dangerous trade or
an offensive and dangerous trade within the Pradeshiya Sabha area
unless he is the holder of a valid licence issued in that behalf by the
Chairman.
04. No person shall be entitled to obtain a licence to carry on any
offensive trade or a dangerous trade or an offensive and dangerous
trade unless –
(1) The premises at which that trade is to be carried on, is
recommended as suitable for that purpose by the Medical
Officer of Health or any officer authorized by him.
(2) Those premises and or any building which is to be used
for the purpose of that trade are in conformity with the
following conditions :–
(a) The premises must be maintained in good condition
and well ventilated and well lighted. Every room must
be provided with windows capable of being opened
and the are of which, when open must not be less than
one fifteenth of the floor space.
(b) The walls of every room in every part must be not
less than 2.14 metres in height and must be built of
bricks, stone, Kabok or cement blocks and the lower 2
metres of the internal surface must be plastered in
cement and it is sufficient if the rest of the internal
surface is lime-plastered and lime-washed.
(c) All eaves must be more than 2 metres from the ground.
(d) The roof must be made of some durable material.
(e) All the woodwork must be oiled or painted.
(f) The entirety of the floor must be cemented or made of
a material from which water will not leak.
(g) The premises must be provided with adequate
drainage.
(h) The premises must be provided with sanitary dust
bins and with sufficient latrine facilities.
(i) The premises must be approved, having regard to the
internal wiring and the necessary safety precautions
installed therein, by an Electrical Superintendent or a
Technical Officer who is professionally trained in that
behalf or any officer authorized by the Chairman.
05. Every licence issued under by-law 3 shall expire on 31st of
December in the relevant year. However, the Chairman has the right
to cancel this licence if there is a breach of any condition imposed
under these by laws for the purpose of carrying on the trade. Before
exercising this right the licence holder must be given an opportunity
to give explanations.
06. (i) Every licence holder shall keep stored all materials
required for carrying on the trade, in such a way as to
prevent any effluvia or any other nuisance.
(ii) Every licence holder when materials which are likely to
cause any nuisance or effluvia are transported along a
public place or a thoroughfare, shall cause them to be
carried in covered and non-absorbent receptacles so as
to prevent causing any nuisance.
(iii) Every licence holder shall cause any offensive vapours
or gases emitted during any process of manufacture, to

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
742
be discharged into the external air, in such a manner and
at such a height as to admit of their diffusion without
injurious or offensive effects or shall be passed directly
through a fire or into a condensing apparatus.
(iv) Every licence holder shall provide adequate drains for
the premises in which the trade is carried on and cause
to maintain them well and to wash them daily.
(v) Every licence holder shall cause the floors of the premises
in which the trade is carried on to be constructed of
some impermeable materials and to be maintained in a
proper state of affairs and to be cleaned daily.
(vi) Every licence holder shall keep the walls of the premises
in which the trade is carried on, in good order, so as to
prevent absorption of filth and shall paint them annually.
(vii) Every licence holder shall cause all apparatus including
implements and vessels used in such trade to be kept
clean and to be cleaned daily.
(viii) Every licence holder shall cause all refuse, sweepings
and scrapings together with waste and by-products to
be removed daily from the premises in covered
receptacles, unless used forthwith for further trade
processes on such premises.
(ix) Every licence holder shall cause the tanks used for
washing or soaking skins or any other materials to be
emptied and cleaned as often as may be necessary to
prevent effluvia.
(x) No licence holder shall pollute any river, stream, canal
sluice, well, tank, channel, sea or any open stretch of
water by discharging thereinto, or causing to flow
thereinto, any foul, ill-smelling or offensive water or
other fluid or by washing any offensive substance or in
any other way pollute or contaminate such river, stream,
canal, sluice, well, tank, channel, sea or open stretch of
water.
07. It shall be lawful for the chairman or any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha generally or specially authorized in that behalf by
the Chairman, at all reasonable times to enter and inspect any premises
in which any offensive or dangerous trade or any offensive and
dangerous trade is being carried on and the licence holder or person in
charge of such premises shall permit such inspection to be made.
08. When it is revealed at an examination that any licenced
premises is not conforming to the provisions of these By-laws, it
shall be lawful for the Chairman to inform the licence holder, in
writing, to fulfill the requirements within a specified time, in order to
make such premises conforming to the provisions of these By-laws.
Further the licence holder shall act, immediately after the receipt of
that notice, in terms of the provisions of such notice.
09. Offensive trades, dangerous trades and offensive and
dangerous trades, determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha have been
included in the Schedules (I), (II) and (III) respectively.
10. It shall be the responsibility of the Chairman, within 30 days
from the receipt of an application submitted by any person for
obtaining a licence, under these By-laws for the purpose of carrying
on any trade, to issue the licence if the premises is in conformity
with these By-laws, or to inform the applicant, if the application is
rejected, together with reasons for rejection.
11. It shall be lawful to take action under Section 122(2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, in respect of any breach of these By-laws.
12. In these By-laws unless the context requires otherwise –
"Person" means any person in charge any security person
any person who guards the property, any manager or any
other person who is vested with the organization
administration or management of any trade, on behalf of
any person.
"Licence holder" means any person who has been issued a
licence under these By-laws for carrying on any trade.
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
Schedule I
OFFENSIVE TRADES
01. Curing or storing of plumbago
02. Manfuacture or sale of manure or chemical fertilizer
03. Tanning of leather
04. Sale of leather
05. Animal husbandry (for meal, milk or eggs)
06. Manufacture of Maldives fish
07. Manufacture of rubber or storing of rubber sheets
08. Keeping a veterinary infirmary
09. Keeping of perishable food or foodstuffs for the purpose of
wholesale trade
10. Keeping of dry fish, salt fish or Jadi in quantity exceeding
150kilo-grams
11. Making Jadi, with meat or fish, drying of meat or fish or icing
of meat or fish
12. Manufacture of coconut shell charcoal or wood charcoal
13. Drying of tobacco
14. Manufacture of animal food
15. Manufacture of poonac
16. Fermenting of animal flesh or blood
17. Manufacture of soap
18. Grinding and keeping of animal bones
19. Manufacture of trunks
20. Keeping of old metal and new metal
21. Keeping of metal scraps
22. Manufacture of furniture
23. Manufacture of rattan articles
24. Carrying on a carpentry shop

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
743
25. Manufacture of syrup or fruit drinks
26. Manufacture of sweets
27. Soaking of coconut husks (or treating of coconut husks)
28. Manufacture of brushes (except tooth brushes)
29. Manufacture of tooth brushes
30. Collection of toddy
31. Manufacture of vinegar
32. Sawing of timber
33. Manufacture of paint, varnish or distemper
34. Manufacture of soda
35. Colour washing of fibre
36. Manufacture of leather goods
37. Canning of fruits, fish or other food stuffs
38. Grinding of coffee, grains
39. Manufacture of baking powder
40. Manufacture of gas mantles
41. Manufacture of wood paste (poti)
42. Manufacture of candles
43. Manufacture of camphor
44. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink
45. Manufacture of blue powder for washing cloths
46. Manufacture of lacquer
47. Manufacture of cosmetics
48. Manufacture of school chalk
49. Manufacture of tyres and tubes
50. Retreating of tyres
51. Vulcanizing of tyre tube
52. Manufacture of cement
53. Manufacture of cement articles or asbestos cement articles
54. Manufacture of sand papers
55. Manufacture of plastic goods
56. Burning of bricks
57. Weaving of clothes by using machinery
58. Manufacture or refilling of oxygen
59. Manufacture of tiles
60. Cleaning of gunny bags in which manure, lime, flour or any
other material and selling them
61. Manufacture of cement block bricks by using machinery.
Schedule II
DANGEROUS  TRADES
01. Metal quarying
02. Manufacture of vegetable oil
03. Manufacture of coconut oil
04. Manufacture storing of boxes of matches
05. Manufacture of methylated spirits
06. Manufacture of tea chests
07. Manufacture of coir or other kinds of fibre
08. Manufacture of articles with coir or other kinds of fibre
09. Keeping of straw
10. Storing of used cloths
11. Manufacture and repair of jewellary
12. Sawing of timber by using machinery
13. Mining of lime stones
14. Carrying on a mechanical workshop
15. Keeping of empty bottles and empty gunny bags
16. Repair of bicycles and motor bicycles
17. Keeping of used news-papers and papers
18. Spray painting
19. Storing of fire works articles and crackers
20. Metal and iron industries (manufacture of machinery,
implements and utensils).
Schedule III
OFFENSIVE  AND  DANGEROUS  TRADE
01. Curing of graphite
02. Processing of cinnamon, cardamoms, cloves or fibre by using
chemicals
03. Dry cleaning or colouring of clothes
04. Printing or colouring or batik painting of cloths
05. Electro plating
06. Manufacture of oil or animal fat
07. Burning of lime stones
08. Manufacture of fire works articles or crackers
09. Processing of cod-liver oil
10. Manufacture of boats
11. Charging of batteries or repair of batteries
12. Welding of metals
13. Repair of motor vehicles
14. Servicing of motor vehicles
15. Grinding of metal by using machinery
16. Running a lathe workshop
17. Running a tinkering workshop
18. Building of motor vehicle bodies
19. Manufacture or refilling of insecticides or pesticides
20. Manufacture of germs killers
21. Manufacture of mosquito coils.
07–524/2
–––––––––––––––
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL
By-laws Relating to Itinerant Vendors
THESE  By-laws  are  enacted  for  the  purpose of regulating,
controlling and administering the itinerant vendors within the
administrative limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. A person shall not enagage in hawking or selling activities, as
an itinerant vendor within the administrative limits of the Pradeshiya

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
744
Sabha, unless he possesses the Itinerant Vendors Licence and the
identity card issued by the Chairman or an officer authorized by the
Chairman, in terms of these By-laws.
03.  The Itinerant Vendors Licence mentioned in By-law 2 shall
be in conformity with the Schedule 2 and the application for the
licence should be submitted in accordance with the Schedule I.
04. (1) Every licence issued under By-laws 2 above, unless not
cancelled earlier shall be in operation till Thirty-first
day of December, of the year in respect of which it is
issued. The Licencing Authority has the power to cancel
the licence, so issued at any time, for breach of the
provisions of the By-law and also to re-issue the same.
(2) A temporary licence issued for a limited period of time,
shall be valid only for the time period mentioned in that
licence.
05. For any reason whatsoever, licences and identity cards
obtained under By-law 2 above shall not be transferable.
06. Every itinerant vendor, at times when he is engaged in business
activities, shall wear the identity card issued by the Chairman, to be
clearly visible.
07. Chairman has the power to impose conditions which he thinks
appropriate, in respect of every licence issued by him.
08. For obtaining licences under these By-laws, a fee should be
paid, in accordance with the amounts of fees determined by the
Council by resolution.
09. Every licenced itinerant vendor shall do his selling activities
within the time period of 8.00 a. m. to 10.00 p. m. However, the
Chairman may relax this time limits during special festival occasions.
10. Any licence holder or his representative shall not spend the
time after business hours residing inside the mobile trade stall or near
that.
11. If mobile trade stalls are used, neither cooking nor preparation
of food shall be done, in any manner whatsoever, inside the trade
stalls or in the vicinity.
12. Where, foodstuffs are hawked for sale, all foodstuffs shall be
kept covered under hygienic conditions and suitable utensils, spoons
etc. shall be used for serving the foodstuffs and also the foodstuffs
shall be hawked for sale in conformity with the provisions of the
Food Act.
13. Meat of animals mentioned in the Butchers Ordinance shall
not be sold by itinerant vendors.
14. If the licence holder is suffering from an infectious disease he
shall refrain from engaging in business activities and also he shall not
employ a person suffering from an infectious disease for that purpose.
15. Chairman shall prohibit the sale by an itinerant vendor of any
foodstuff or any other stuff, which has been prepared in an area
where any infections disease is sperading or where an infectious
disease has already spread.
16. Waste and waste water shall not be released to public places
and arrangements shall have to be made for that purpose in a manner
which lead to the satisfaction of the Chairman.
17. A systematic arrangement shall be made and follwed by the
itinerant vendor himself, with the concurrence of the Pradeshiya
Sabha for the purpose of disposing garbage, waste and waste water
generated by the itinerant hawking.
18. Licence holder shall submit the licence and the identity card
when asked for, by an authorized officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
19. Hawking shall be prohibitd in the premises of the public
market. Hawking by waiting at a certain place for a long time shall
not be allowed.
20. If a licence has been cancelled by a Court of Law, the relevant
licence must be returned to the Chairman, forthwith.
21. It shall be lawful to take action under Section 122 (2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, with regard to hawking without a licence and
an identity card issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha and with regard to
violation of this By-law.
In these By-law, unless the context, otherwise requires,
"Authorized Officer" means an officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, in
writing.
"Itinerant hawking" means Hawking for sale, by walking by
using a bicycle, motor bicycle, motor vehicle, cart, wheeled
trade stall or an animal.
"Council" ("Sabha") means Pradeshiya Sabha and
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
Schedule  I
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRA TION AS
AN ITINERANT VENDOR
1. Full Name :––––––––––.
2. Address :––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
4. Kind of hawking or selling :––––––––––.
5. How long, has been functioning as an Itinerant Vendor :–––––.
6. Old Identity Card Number/Old License Number :––––––––––.
7. If there is any ownership of permanent trade stalls within the
town limits, the number of the trade stall and the assessment
number :––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
745
I certify that the above particulars are true and request to register
me as an itinerant vendor, subject to the promise that goods not
permitted for sale by Pradeshiya Sabhas/Urban Councils shall not be
sold, that I will act according to the decision taken by the Pradeshiya
Sabha/Urban Council and that I shall not consider the permission for
registration as an itinerant vendor, as a aright.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Schedule II
ITINERANT VENDOR'S LICENCE
This licence is to the under mentioned person for functioning as
an itinerant vendor within the limits, subject to the fulfillment of
following conditions :
1. Full Name :––––––––––.
2. Address :––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
4. Kind of hawking or selling :––––––––––.
5. Limits within which the hawking or selling will be carried out :
––––––––––.
6. Amount of the payment :––––––––––. Date :––––––––––.
Bill Number :––––––––––.
7. Number of licence :––––––––––.
Conditions :
1. Wearing of a uniform.
2. Wearing of the Identity Card to be visible to the general public.
3. Refraining from the use of alcohol and smoking.
4. Not hawking or selling at the entrance doors and flight of steps.
5. Behave in a polite and disciplined manner.
6. Putting the refuse thrown by the people into garbage bins.
7. Paying the monthly trade fee before the 10th of the month.
8. Tools such as knifes, should not be used so as to exhibit to the
public. (Violation of above conditions or non payment of
amounts, during the prescribed time will cause to cancel the
permit).
07–524/3
–––––––––––––
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL
Parking of Vehicles in  the Pradeshiya Sabha  Area
THESE By-laws shall be known as By-laws relating to the
establishment of public parking lots for vehicles, within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and the regulation control and administration
of vehicle parking thereon.
02. (1) The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, who will hereafter
be referred to as "the Chairman" may declare places suitable
for parking of vehicles, within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(2) The Chairman may declare any place where vehicles are
prohibited to be parked, due to security reasons or other
reasons, by exhibiting a notice in a conspicuous position
to be clearly visible.
03. Where the parking of vehicles on any place is prohibited by a
notice exhibited under By-law 2(2), the driver of a vehicle, shall not
allow the vehicle to stand on that street or road, except for such
length of time as may be necessary for the purpose of -
(a) obeying any traffic sign or notice erected or exhibited on
that street or road by a competent authority or officer ; or
(b) following in due order the movement of any traffic on
that street or road, at that time ; or
(c) allowing any person to alight from or to enter such vehicle ;
or
(d) loading goods into or unloading goods from such vehicle.
04. No person shall park a vehicle on any place reserved for
paring of vehicles, unless he is in possession of a valid permit, issued
in that behalf by the Chairman or the Secretary of the Pradeshiya
Sabhas.
05. A fee as decided by the Council by resolution and published,
shall be charged for each permit issued under By-law 04.
06. A Government Department or a Corporation or an incorporated
body of persons may obtain a monthly or an annual permit for
motor vehicles belonging to that department, or corporation or
incorporated body of persons, as the case may be by payment of a
montly fee, to the Pradeshiya Sabha, as decided by the Council from
time to time.
07. Every person who obtains a permit under above By-laws
shall display such permit in a conspicious place within the vehicle so
that it may be visible from outside the vehicle.
08. Where any public parking lot is reserved for any specified
class or description of motor vehicles, a person shall not park a
motor vehicle not belonging to that class or description, in such
parking lot.
09. A person shall not park a motor vehicle in a public parking lot
in such a way as to obstruct any other motor vehicle entering or
leaving that public parking lot.
10. No vehicle shall be parked during any time other than that
mentioned specifically in the permit.
11. The permit holder, when parking his vehicle, shall do so, in
the way stipulated by the Pradeshiya Sabha, so that it will not cause
obstruction to any other person, or to any public property or to any
private property.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
746
12. (1) A person shall not effect any repair to any motor vehicle
parked in a public parking lot unless such repair is
essential for the purpose of removing the vehicle from
the public parking lot.
(2) A person shall retrain from any act which would cause
disorder or which would be harmful to ethical behaviour.
(3) A person shall not start the engine of a vehicle parked in
public parking lot in such a way that it will cause an
unusual noise.
(4) A person shall not wash or cause to be washed any
motor vehicle while it is parked in a public parking lot.
13. The owner or driver of any motor vehicle parked in a public
parking lot shall, whenever requested by a Police Officer or Traffic
Warden, produce for inspection the permit issued in respect of that
vehicle.
14. In respect of parking vehicles in any urban area, or at any
specific place where people gather or in any street or a road situated
within the limits approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha, a fee may be
charged as decided by the Council by resolution in accordance with
the length of the parking time, with a view to controlling the parking
time for vehicles.
15. An amount of fees may be charged, as decided by the Council
from time to time from any vehicle parked on a street or on a road
within the Pradeshiya Sabha area, for the purpose of earning some
income.
16. When arrangements have been made for three wheelers, to be
parked after obtaining a permit, no three wheelers shall be allowed to
be parked on any public parking lot, other than the parking lot
reserved for three wheelers by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
17. In respect of three wheel vehicles parked on a public parking
lot expecting hires, the following terms and conditions shall be
applicable :
(1) If the person who makes the application for a permit
referred to in By-law 4, is not the owner of the vehicle,
he will have to submit the concurrence of the owner of
the three wheel vehicle, in writing, for the issue of the
permit, to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) A three wheel vehicle shall not be parked for obtaining
hires on any place other than the place specifically stated
in the permit.
(3) Hires may be obtained, on mutual agreement of three
wheel drivers. If they fail to secure such agreement, hires
have to be obtained according to the instructions given
by the Chairman.
18. These By-laws shall be in operation from 6.00 a. m. to 8.00 p. m.
19. Persons who contravene these By-laws shall be liable to
punishment in terms of Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act.
There shall be provision to amend the time limits and charges, by
the Chairman after obtaining the Council approval and such
amendments shall be published in the Gazette –
Unless the context otherwise requires, in these By-laws :
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Police Officer" means an officer of the Sri Lanka Police, in
uniform.
"Motor Vehicle" has the same meaning as provided in the
Motor Traffic Ordinance.
"Traffic Warden" means any officer or servant of the
Pradeshiya Sabha appointed to perform all duties assigned
by the Chairman or the Secretary for the purpose of
maintaining a proper control relating to the parking of
vehicles.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
What is meant by public parking area for vehicles and the area
where parking of vehicle is prohibited, are areas, so prescribed by
the Pradeshiya Sabha, by resolution.
07–524/4
––––––––––––
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL
By-laws Relating to the Destruction of Mosquitoes and
Disease Causing Insects within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area
THESE By-laws are enacted for the purpose of improving the state
of environment and the prevention of infectious diseases, through
the destruction and supperession of mosquitoes and disease causing
insects, within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
02. In terms of these By-laws no person or individual in the
Pradeshiya Sabha area, shall do any activity or cause to do any
activity or allow to do any activity which will be conductive to the
growth of mosquitoes and disease causing insects.
03. Occupants of every place in the Pradeshiya Sabha area, shall
for the purpose of destroying mosquitoes and disease causing insects,
cause :
(1) All open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, discarded tires,
coconut shells, spilt coconuts and places which are capable

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
747
of holding accumulated water, as well as any other articles,
materials or vessels, found in such places, which are capable
of holding water, to be removed or otherwise effectively
disposed of.
(2) Constructions such as gutters and down pipes of buildings
in residential or non-residential premises and drains in
home gardens to be maintaind systematically inspected
regularly and cleared of obstructions to ensure free flow of
water.
(3) All cisterns, tanks and other receptacles of water in
residential or non-residential premises, to be maintained in
good condition and up to date repairs and to be kept closed
or covered, so as to protect them from mosquitoes and
insects or to be kept them in such condition that breeding
of mosquitoes and insects will be prevented, to provide
safe and easy means of access for any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha for the purpose of inspection and carrying
out of such measures as may be necessary for preventing
the breeding of mosquitoes and insects.
(4) All wells on lands to be maintained in good condition and
to be kept so closed and covered and in such condition, as
to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease causing
insects.
(5) Any artificial pond which has been so, constructed as to
be capable of being emptied, to be emptied and cleaned at
least once every week.
(6) All drains in home gardens and lands to be maintained
regularly, in order to prevent the formation of pools, by
accumulating water, following from them.
(7) All shrubs undergrowth and all vegetation other than that
grown for the purpose of food or of ornament to be removed
from every part of any building used for human dwelling
or of any construction within a radius of 05 metres.
(8) All queries, gem pits, clay pots or pots constructed for
whatever any other purpose, to be maintained in such a
way as to prevent the collection of water.
(9) Water plants usually known as Diyaparandel Pendapasi,
Telpasi, Barawapasi or any plants which may from time
to time be found to afford breeding facilities to mosquitoes
and insects, to be removed and destroyed. The spread of
any plant referred to in Para (9) of this By-law, to be
prevented by the erection of suitable bariers to stop such
plants floating down along any water course.
(10) All latrines in that place, including catch pits, soakage
pits, seal pits and their surroundings to be maintained in
such condition as to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.
04. It shall be lawful for the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or
any officer authorized by him, generally or specially in that behalf in
writing, to enter any place on any day at any time within 6.00 a. m.
to 6.00 p. m. and inspect that place for the purpose of ascertaining
the following particulars.
(1) Whether that, premises is a place where mosquitoes and
insects are being harboured.
(2) Whether the requirements of By-laws have been complied
with by the occupiers of that premises.
(3) What measures if any, are necessary for destroying and
preventing the breeding of mosquitoes ; and
(4) Whether the spraying of insecticide in that premises has
been done successfully.
05. (1) The Chairman or any officer specially or generaly
authorized by him in writing in that behalf may after
such insepction of as may be deemed necessary any
premises by a written notice, require the owner or the
occupier of that premises to fulfill activities necessary
for the destruction of mosquitoes and disease causing
insects and to suppress their growth in such premises.
(2) The owner or the occupier of any premises, who has
been served a notice under Para (1) above of this By-law,
shall comply with the requirements given in that notice,
within the time limit specified therein.
06. (1) No owner or occupier of any place shall dig or construct
any well, tank, pond, cistern, fountain or other immovable
receptacle for water in that place except with the written
approval of the Chairman and in compliance with any
instructions which may be given by him for the prevention
of breeding of mosquitoes and disease casuing insects.
(2) When any construction stated in Para (1) above, of this
By-law is done in contravention of the provisions of the
same By-law, the Chairman, may by written notice served
on the owner or the occupier of that lace require that
well, tank pond, cistern, fountain or receptacle to be
filled up or otherwise demolished within the time
specified in the notice or to be altered within that time in
such manner as may be set out in the notice.
07. (1) Service of any notice under By-law 5 and 6 may be
effected upon the owner or occupier of any place either
personally or by affixing the notice to a conspicuous
part of that.
(2) Where any place is jointly occupied by two or more co-
owners, each of the co-owners shall be serverally liable
for any neglect or failure to comply with the requirement
of By-law 7(1) and of any notice servied under By-law 5
or any of them.
(3) Where the owner or the occupier of any place on whom
a notice under By-laws 5 and 6 has been served, neglects
or fails to comply with the requirements of such notice
within the time specified therein, the Chairman or the
officer issued that notice or any officer authorized in
that behalf, may, at any time between 6.00 a. m. and 6.00
p. m. on any day enter the place with such assistants and

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
748
servants as may be necessary and execute, or cause to
execute or arrange to execute all work or measures
specified the notice.
(4) Where any works or measures specified in a notice served
under By-laws 5, 6 and 7 on the owner or occupier of
any place are executed or performed by the Chairman or
an officer authorized by the Chairman, the amounts of
the expenses incurred in the execution or perfromance of
those works or measures shall be payable to the
Chairman by such owner or occupier and if it is not paid
by the owner or the occupier within 14 days after demand
made therefore from the Chairman in writing under his
hand shall be recovered from such owner or occupier as
a fine due to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
08. No person shall knowingly or willfully resist or obstruct the
Chairman or any authorized officer in the lawful exercise of his duty
under any of these By-laws.
09. It shall be lawful to take action in terms of Section 122(2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act with regard to the breach of these By-laws.
10. In these By-laws, unless the context otherwise required :
"Owner" includes any co-owner and a lessee and any person
who by whatever right is entitled to the rent or produce of
any place.
"Occupier" means the person in occupation of any place or
having the charge, management or control thereof whether
on his own account or as agent of another but does not
include a lodger.
"Authrozed Officer" means, any officer or servant of the
Pradeshiya Sabha authorized in writing by the Chairman
of that Pradeshiya  Sabha.
"Council  (Sabha)" means the Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the relevant Pradeshiya
Sabha.
"Place" means any land, house, building or a structure and the
bed of any pond, tank, lake, water course, channel cannal
or stream situated thereon.
07–524/5
––––––––––––
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL
BY-laws Relating to Decorations on  Roads and
Thoroughfares within  the Pradeshiya Sabha  Area
THESE By-laws are enacted for the purpose of regulating, controlling
and administrating the prevention of damage caused to the
environment and the general public by decorations carried out on
public places roads and thoroughfares within the Pradeshiya Sabha
area.
02. No person shall do decorations in any manner whatsoever in
a public place or on a thoroughfare or on a road within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area, except on a permit issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha, for
that purpose.
03. Every application for obtaining the permit referred to in the
By-law  2 above, shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with
the format given in the Schedule I to these By-laws.
04. Every application for a permit shall be submitted to the
Chairman or the Secretary at least three days prior to the date on
which work on decorations are expected to be commenced. However,
the Chairman or the Secretary may consider accepting an application
not submitted within the time stated in the By-law, under special
circumstance's and take necessary action.
05. Every applicant shall submit all particulars stated in the
application specified in the Schedule I and in addition to them any
information requested by the Chairman or the Secretary for the
purpose of taking a decision on the application.
06. (1) Every permit issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be in
the format as shown in the Schedule 2, to these by-laws.
(2) The said permit shall be valid only for the function and
period for which the permit has been issued and it shall
be subject to any suspension or cancellation.
07. The permit holder when doing all decorations shall do so, in
such a manner that they shall not obstruct the movement of any
person or group of persons walking on relevant thoroughfares and
also the movement of vehicles plying on those thoroughfares.
08. Decorations shall not be carried out in a manner that will
cause an insult to any person or a group of persons, directly or
indirectly.
09. The permit shall be issued only if the Chairman or the Secretary
satisfies himself to the effect that :
(1) The permit which is to be issued shall not be used to
contravene any provision of the By-laws.
(2) As a result of activities allowed by the permit, there
shall be no any loss damage or hazard caused to the
environment or to any public property.
(3) The applicant has taken adequate measures to protect
the envieornment.
10. (1) For issuing the permit an amount of fees approved by
the Council by resolution, from time to time may be
charged and such amounts of fees shall be published in
the Gazette.
(2) At the time of issuing the permit, the permit holder shall
make a deposit in cash with the Pradeshiya Sabha, on the
basis of the extent of decorations that is to be carried out.
The amount of deposit shall be determined by the Council
(Sabha) by resolution, from time to time.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
749
11. (1) It shall be lawful for the Sabha to remove any decoration
which have not been removed by the permit holder
within the specified time period and to credit the amount
of money deposited by the permit holder, to the Sabha
Fund, to cover up the expenditure incurred by the Sabha.
(2) If a request is not submitted to return the deposit during
a period of six months after the decorations are removed
by the permit holders, such as deposit shall be credited
to the Sabha.
12. Permit holder shall not do decorations in a manner which will
cause obstruction or damage to any property along the roads or to
any person or to a group of persons who walk along those roads. If
any damage is caused by such decorations, the responsibility for
that damage shall be borne by the permit holder.
13. Disposal of all debris of the decorations in a manner which
will not casue any damage to the environment, shall be the
responsiblity of the permit holder.
14. The permit issued by the Sabha for carrying out decorations
shall be produced when asked for inspection by an authorized officer
of the Sabha or by a Police Officer.
15. Permit holder shall take action to remove the decorations
before the lapse of date and time given for such removal, in the
permit.
16. A person, contravening any of these By-laws shall after,
conviction before a Court of competent jurisdiction, for committing
an offence or omission which will establish that contravention, be
served a written notice inviting attention to that conviction, by the
Chairman or any officer authroized by him and be liable to punishment
in terms of Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
17. In these By-laws unless the context requires otherwise.
"Decoration" means a decoration of whatever type, made of
any natural artificial or any other material and/or by lighting
devices.
"A person" means, any individual, any group of individuals
and establishment or any organization.
"Roads thoroughfares" have the meaning given to them in the
Thoroughfares Ordinance (Chapter 193), respectively
"Public Property" includes, all telephone posts electricity
poles situated along the roads and thoroughfares and
"property in places which are commonly used by the
general public, within the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha area.
"Police Officer" means an officer of the Sri Lanka Police Service,
wearing the uniform.
"Authorized Officer" means an officer of the Sabha, authorized
by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, in writing.
"Secretary" means the Secretary appointed to the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
"Sabha" means the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha.
Schedule I
APPLICA TION FOR OBTAINING A PERMIT FOR DOING
DECORATIONS ON ROADS AND THOROUGHFARES
1. Applicant's Name :––––––––––.
2. Applicant's Address :––––––––––.
3. Applicant's Telephone Number :––––––––––.
4. Applicant's National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
5. Name of the street or the place whose decorations will be done
:––––––––––.
6. Date on which decoration will be done :––––––––––.
7. Materials that will be used for decorations :––––––––––.
8. Date on which decorations will be removed :––––––––––.
9. Course of action for disposal of waste material :––––––––––.
–––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Inspected. I recommend that a sum of Rs. .............. be charged as
fees for decorating .............. metres/square metres.
–––––––––––,
Authorized Officer.
Date :––––––––––.
Schedule 2
PERMIT FOR DECORATING ROADS AND
THOROUGHFARES
1. Applicant's Name :––––––––––.
2. Applicant's Address :––––––––––.
3. Applicant's National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
4. Place/Street or decorations  :––––––––––.
5. Proposed date for debris decorations  :––––––––––.
6. Date on which decoration should be removed  :––––––––––.
Date on which fees were paid ............... amount Rs. ....................
Bill Number ......................
Conditions and approval ..............................
I approve the decoration on relevant road, taking into cosideration,
the particulars and constitutions given above.
–––––––––––, –––––––––––, –––––––––––,
Prepared. Examined. Approved.
07–524/6

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
750
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL
By-laws Relating to Lodging Houses and Rests
THESE by-laws are enacted for the purpose of regulating hotels,
lodging, houses and rests which are being operated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha areas having been registered under the Tourist
Development Act, No. 14 of 1968 or without any such registration.
02. (1) No person shall within a Pradeshiya Sabha area keep a
hotel, lodging house or a rest except on a licence issued
in that behalf by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) For every licence issued under Para. (1) of this by-law,
a fee as published in the Gazette by the Sabha shall be
paid and such licence shall, unless cancelled earlier,
expire on the Thirty first day of December in each year
in respect of which it is issued.
(3) Every licence issued by the Praeshiya Sabha shall be in
the format as shown in the Schedule II, to these
By-laws.
03. In every licence issued under By-law 02(1) above, the number
of single rooms and double rooms, in each lodging house, hotel or rest
must be stated separately. Also the number of occupants who could
be provided with maximum lodging facilities in such lodging house,
hotel and the rest must be stated.
04. For obtaining a licence issued under the By-law 02(1), an
application prepared in accordance with the Schedule I, shall be
submitted to the Chairman, together with the plan of the building.
05. (1) No person shall be entitled to obtain a licence for keeping
a lodging house, unless he conforms to conditions
stated in By-laws 6 to 13.
(2) Chairman shall inform the applicant in writing, if he
refuses the application, within 6 weeks from the receipt
of application, together with reasons for such refusal.
06. (1) If the premises is not facing a public road, there must
be a suitable access road to enter that premises.
(2) The building must be strongly built and must be
maintained in good condition.
(3) The roof must be made of permanent and durable
material.
(4) A system for disposing the daily collection of garbage
inside the building must be in operation.
07. (1) The minimum floor area of a room meant for an occupant
shall be 90 square feet and the floor area meant for one
person in a room in which sleeping accommodation is
provided to more than one person shall be not less than
60 square feet.
(2) Every room must be well-ventilated and well lighted
and provided with windows capable of being opened.
The area of a window when open must be not less than
one fifth of the floor area.
(3) In every room, the walls must be 10 feet in height from
the ground.
(4) The floor must be made of some impermeable material
which does not absorb water.
(5) Depending on the number of occupants, a sufficient
number of beds and chairs, a table, a small rack and a
mirror must be provided in each room.
(6) There must be a mosquito net for every bed.
(7) Sufficient number of clean bed spreads, pillows and
pillow cases must be provided, dependng on the number
of occupants. On every occasion when occupants are
changed, bed spreads and pillow cases must be changed.
If occupants will stay for a number of days bed spreads
and pillow cases must be changed, at least once in four
days.
(8) Doors must be provided with lock and key so as to
enable them to be kept closed well.
(9) Curtains must be fixed to windows.
(10) Bins of suitable size must be provided for putting refuse.
(11) The walls, doors and windows of rooms must be
painted.
(12) Suitable water for drinking and bathing purposes must
be provided.
08. (1) The dining hall must be of sufficient extent depending
on the number of occupants.
(2) A sufficient number of dining tables and chairs must be
provided.
(3) Walls, ceiling, doors, windows, floor furniture, fittings
etc. must be kept clean.
09. (1) There shall be a kitchen of sufficient extent, depending
on the number of occupants.
(2) Windows must be fixed, in such a way that there will
be sufficient ventilation and light and outlets for efficient
outflow of hot air and smoke, must be built.
(3) Floor must be made of impermeable material which
does not absorb, water and must be capable of being
cleaned easily.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
751
(4) Walls of the kitchen must be cleaned easily and their
surface must be made, up to 5 feet in height of
impermeable material which does not absorb water.
(5) Bins with covers must be provided for keeping waste.
(6) Containers with lids must be used keeping spices and
food stuffs.
(7) All drains and outlets must be kept covered and clean
and waste water must be made to flow into a well
covered water flowing pit.
(8) Cleanliness must be maintained at maximum level, in
preparing food.
(9) Prepared food must be kept covered so as to protect
from dust, waste and flies.
(10) Ceiling, walls, doors, windows and furntiure of the
kitchen must be kept clean regularly.
(11) Kitchen must be kept free from all kinds of insects,
flies and animals like rats.
10. (1) Pantry must be made in such a way to get sufficient
ventilation and light.
(2) Floor (of the pantry) must be made of some permeable
material which does not absorb water.
(3) Tables, utensils and food vessels must be kept clean.
(4) It should be kept free of insects, flies, rats etc..
11. (1) A sufficient number of bathrooms must have been
constructed.
(2) Every bathroom must have a floor area of not less than
35 square feet.
(3) In every bathroom, there shall be a towel rack, soap
holder, a mirror, a wash basin and a bowl or pot for
bathing water.
(4) There shall be drains for outflow of waste water and
covered pits for collection of such water.
12. (1) If attached toilets for each and every room, are not
provided, toilets shall be provided for men and women,
separately.
(2) If attached toilets, for every room are not provided, at
least one toilet must be provided for five occupants.
(3) Facilities must be provided to get pipe water for toilets.
(4) There shall be provided sanitary buckets, soap, soap
boxes and toilet paper to every toilet.
(5) Floor and walls up to 5 feet from the ground (of the
toilet) shall be made of impermeable material which
does not absorb water and they must be well maintained.
(6) There shall be a system of water pipes, in working
order in every toilet.
(7) Every toilet must be cleaned daily, by using sanitary
materials.
13. (1) Environment outside the building must be kept clean
and free of garbage.
(2) Premises shall be made in such a way to function an
efficient drainage.
(3) Well constructed pits must be used to contain waste
water released from the lodging house.
(4) Pits and lavatory pits must be maintained in such a
way that there shall be no breeding of mosquitoes and
insects and there shall be precautions to prevent any
emission of bad ordour whatsoever.
(5) There shall be measures provided for burying or
sanitary disposal of waste released from the lodging
house.
(6) No animals such as poultry, cattle or pigs must be kept
within the premises.
14. (1) Prior to the issue of a licence in terms of these by-laws
Chairman shall send a copy of the application, within
seven days from the receipt of it, to the Medical Officer
of Health.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Medical Officer of Health,
after every application is referred to him, to inspect
the relevant premises and send it back to the Chairman,
with his observations and recommendations.
15. Every licence holder shall fix a board painted with his name
and the name of the lodging house in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages, in a conspicuous place in front of the premises.
16. Every licence holder shall keep in a place where it is clearly
visible, copies of these by-laws prepared in Sinhala, Tamil and English
and the framed licence and a list of names and addresses of all
employees in the lodging house, so as to enable the Chairman, or a
person authorized by him, to inspect the premises at reasonable
times.
17. Licence holder shall not allow any occupant to sleep in any
room other than rooms which are specifically mentioned as sleeping
rooms in the plan attached to the licence and where the Chairman has
put his signature.
18. A licence holder for lodging house shall not allow a number of
persons over and above the number of persons specifically mentioned

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
752
by the Chairman as persons allowed for sleeping in a room. For the
purpose of those by-laws, two children under the age of 10 years
shall be considered as one person.
19. Licence holder shall cause to fix a board in each room stating
the size of the room and the number of persons allowed to sleep in
that room.
20. Licence holder shall not allow the lodging house to be used for
illegal activities and he shall maintain peace and good conduct in the
relevant premises.
21. Every licence holder shall maintain a register containing the
name, place of permanent residence, occupation, National Identity
Card number and the telephone number of any, of each person staying
as an occupant in the premises.
22. Every licence holder shall apply some suitable paint on walls
and ceiling of the buildings and polish the parts made of wood, once
a year. Floor must be washed and cleaned or must be polished by
using some wax.
23. Every licence holder shall keep every part of the lodging
house outer environment and drains in a very good condition and
clean and shall maintain the premises free from bad smell generating
from a latrine, lavatory pit or a drain or from any other nuisance. He
shall maintain furniture covers and utensils clean and in sanitary
condition.
24. Every licence holder of lodging house shall cause to sweep
daily every room, flight of steps, corridor, stair case, drains and the
land of the premises.
25. Every licence holder shall cause to keep cooked food in such
a manner that flies and other insects will not be able to reach it.
26. Every licence holder of a lodging house shall cause, to put all
garbage, domestic waste or any other offensive substances into a
container which can be kept covered and also to remove them from
the premises, daily. Waste containers must be kept covered all the
time, except at the time of putting waste into it.
27. No licence holder shall admit any person suffering from
infectious contagious disease or any skin disease, to the premises.
28. (1) Licence holder of a lodging house, shall, if any occupant
in the falls sick due to an infectious and contagious
disease or any skin disease, inform forthwith the Public
Health Inspector of the division in which the lodging
house is situated or the Chairman. If the Chairman
orders to empty the lodging house, the licence holder
shall comply immediately. Further the licence holder
shall take measures to destroy germs in bed spreads,
clothes and other utensils used by the person who was
subject of infection and to apply paint on the walls.
(2) Licence holder shall not admit any occupant to the
lodging house stated in By-law 28(1), until the Medical
Officer of Health or one of his assistants inspect the
premises and issue a certificate to the effect that it is
free from infection.
29. Every licence holder shall cause to clean mats, bed spreads,
pillows, mattresses beds etc., used in the lodging house for the purpose
of maintaining them in a clean and sanitary condition.
30. (1) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by Chairman, generally
or specifically in writing to enter any lodging house
and inspect it at all reasonable times.
(2) Licence holder or the person in charge of the lodging
house shall allow the Chairman or the officer authorized
by him in writing to enter the lodging house and to
inspect it and he shall give all assistance required by
the Chairman or such officers.
31. It shall be lawful to act under Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, with regard to any contravention of these by-laws.
32. It shall be lawful to cancel the licence, if these by-laws relating
to lodging houses are contravened twice or more than twice, in addition
to any other punishment that may be imposed by a Court of Law,
having proper jurisdiction.
33. Unless the context requires any other meaning :
“Person” includes an incorporated or non-incorporated Board
of persons also ;
“Occupant” means a person who obtains lodging
accommodation inclusive of sleeping facilities in the lodging
house, by paying money or as a concession ;
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means relevant Pradeshiya Sabha ;
“Licence holder” includes any person who is performing
management functions in a lodging house or a rest, licenced
under these by-laws ;
“Authorized Officer” means any person authorized by the
Chairman or the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha, in
writing ;
“Lodging house” means any place which provides sleeping
accommodation with or without food, for money or any
other charge ;
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
Schedule I
APPLICATION FOR OBTAINING A LICENCE FOR A
LODGING HOUSE OR REST
01. Applicant’s Name :–––––––––.
02. Private Address :–––––––––.
03. Identity Card Number :–––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'16
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.07.2010
753
04. Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––.
05. Nature of service :–––––––––.
06. Name of the Service Station :–––––––––.
07. Place where it is situated :–––––––––.
08. Time during which the service is provided :–––––––––.
09. Floor extent of the building :–––––––––.
10. Number of doors and windows in the building :–––––––––.
11. Length/width/height of the building :–––––––––.
12. Particulars of the roof :–––––––––.
(Tiles/asbestos/cadjan/aluminium/sheets)
13. Particulars of the floor :–––––––––.
(Cement/bricks/floor tiles)
14. If a Certificate of Conformation has been obtained, its number
and date :–––––––––.
15. Number of employees :–––––––––.
16. Maximum number of persons for whom accommodation can be
provided :–––––––––.
17. Number of single rooms :–––––––––.
18. Number of twin rooms :–––––––––.
19. Whether there is a toilet for every room :–––––––––.
20. Whether common toilets are separated as for men and for women
:–––––––––.
21. Whether containers are provided to every room :–––––––––.
22. Whether water is provided separately for bathing and drinking
:–––––––––.
23. Whether pipe water is provided for toilets :–––––––––.
24. If not so, what is the arrangement made to provide water :–––.
25. Arrangement made to dispose of waste water :–––––––––.
26. Number of fire extinguishing instruments :–––––––––.
27. Number of water taps :–––––––––.
28. Number of toilets :–––––––––.
29. Number of urinals :–––––––––.
30. Floor area of the kitchen :–––––––––.
31. Whether following documents are exhibited on notice boards :
(i) Copy of the by-laws :–––––––––.
(ii) maximum number of persons allowed for lodging :
–––––––––.
(iii) Register containing names and particulars of persons
who have been provided lodging Register contains :
–––––––––.
(iv) Notes of the Inspection Officer and the signature :
–––––––––.
(v) Notice relating to fees and prices :–––––––––.
32. Cost date of line washing or painting :–––––––––.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
The  Schedule II
LICENCE FOR LODGING HOUSES OR A REST
01. Name of the licence holder :–––––––––.
02. Name of the lodging house/rest :–––––––––.
03. Address :–––––––––.
04. Name of the owner/manager :–––––––––.
05. Address :–––––––––.
06. Place where situated :–––––––––.
07. Maximum number of persons who can be accommodated at a
time :–––––––––.
08. Number of rooms :–––––––––.
Single :–––––––––. T win :–––––––––.
09. Year for which permission is granted to run the lodging house/
rest :–––––––––.
10. Date on which licence fees were paid :–––––. amount :–––––.
Licence Number :–––––––––.
This licence will be valid till 31st of December of the respective
year unless it is not cancelled on grounds of contravening these
By-laws or any other reason.
––––––––––– ––––––––––– –––––––––––
Prepared. Examined. Approved.
07–524/7
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.