

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1379
1379
wxl 1"619 - 2009 iema;eïn¾ 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'09'11
No. 1,619 – FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1382
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1384
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th September, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd
September, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in July-September, 2006 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1380
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1381
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1382
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar - Marriages, Births and Deaths
RATNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of  Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretaries, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by  registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 09 October, 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
11th August, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division. applications are called applications should be sent
Ratnapura Kalawana Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) District Secretary/ Addi. Registrar
of Kukulu Koralaya Division and Births and General District Secretariat
Deaths of Udapattuwa Division. Ratnapura.
09-236
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said marriage registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1383
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 9th October, 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th August, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of Registrar of Muslim District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
marriages in Thibbatuvewa General, Distri ct Secretariat,
area of Kalagam Palatha Division Anuradhapura.
09-237
DEPARTMENT  OF  PRISIONS  OF  SRI  LANKA
Vacancies for Posts of Driver
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Male citizens with
undermentioned qualifications for the posts of Driver in the
Department of Prisions.
01. Salary Scale. – The salary scale attached to the post is
Rs.12,470 - 10 x 130 - 10 x 145 - 10 x 160 - 12 x 170 - Rs. 18,860
(Step 22) (Efficiency Bar operates before proceeding beyond the
salary step of Rs.15,700)
02. Age Limit. – Should not be less than 18 years and and not
more than 45 years of age. (This upper age limit does not apply to
those already in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service and
their applications must be forwarded through the respective Heads
of Department).
03.  Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed at least
Grade 8/9 Year in a school approved by the Director General of
Education.
04. Professional Qualifications :-
(i) Should possess a proficiency certificate issued by the
Commissioner of Motor Traffic for driving motor vehicles
and trailers with a tare of more than 34 cwt, and busses
licensed for carrying more than 32 passengers.
(ii) Should posses 3 year experience as a driver (should be
confirmed by certificates)
(iii) Should possess a sound knowledge of the Highway Code.
05. Physical Qualifications .– Candidates must posses a good
eye sight and be physically fit for service during day and night.
Minimum height at least should be 5ft.
06. Terms of engagement .– The post is permanent and
pensionable.
07. Conditions of Service .– Sections 10 to 12 in Chapter II of
the Establishments Code are applicable.
08. Method of recruitment. – Recruitments are made under the
Public Administration Circular No. 15/19.
09. Closing date of the applications .– Applications completed
in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the  Commissioner General of Prisons,
Prison Headquaters. Colombo 09, on or before 12.10.2009. The
post applied for should be clearly indicated on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the applications.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1384
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF DRIVER IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
PRISONS SRI LANKA
01. (i) Name in full :–––––––––.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
02. (i) Address :–––––––––.
(ii) National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
03. (i) District :–––––––––.
(ii) Police Station of the residential address :–––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
05. Age as at 11.09.2009 :–––––––––.
06. Citizenship (by decent or registration) :–––––––––.
07. Civil Status :–––––––––.
(Married/Unmarried/Widowed)
08. Educational Qualifications (Should be clearly stated) :––––––.
09. Driving license No. and Class :–––––––––.
10. Experience :–––––––––.
11. If the applicant is presently employed :
(i) Post :–––––––––.
(ii) Place of Work :–––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment :–––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted for any offence in a Court of Law ?
Yes/No (if convicted, give details) :–––––––––.
13. Declaration of the Applicant :
I certify that all the information furnished by me in this
application is true and correct and I am aware that if any information
is found to be false or incorrect my application is subject to be
rejected before selection and to dismissal without any compensation
if discovered after the selection.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
14. Only for the applicants already in Public Service/Provincial
Public Service :
I certify that Mr............. is employed in this ..... and his work
and conduct is satisfactory and if he is selected for the post, he can
be released/cannot be released from the post held at present.
––––––––––––,
Signature and official Stamp,
of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––.
09-265
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  SPORTS  AND  PUBLIC  RECREATION
National Institute of Sports Science
DIPLOMA COURSE IN SPORTS SCIENCE - 2009/2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from candidates between 18-35 years
of age who wish to follow the above Course conducted in Sinhala
Medium by the National Institute of Sports Science of the Ministry
of Sports and Public Recreation.
01. Note.- 1.1 The age limit of those applicants who are in
government  service or public service should
not exceed 45 year.
1.2 Application forms which are not completed
properly will be rejected.
02. Educational and other Qualifications :
2.1 Should have passed G. C. E. Ordinary Level Examination
or its equivalent in six subjects (6) in not more than two
sittings, provided that two of the six passes should be in
Sinhala or Tamil Language and Arithmetic or
Mathematics ;
2.2 In addition to the above, the applicant should have
obtained.
(a) First, second or third place in individual
championship or first or second place in term events
at Inter District Competitions of National Sports
Festival conducted by the Ministry ; or
First, second and third place in individual events in
National Level Competitions conducted by a National
Sports Association ; or
First Place in an individual event, and or team event
in National Schools Competitions (all of the above
should be in over 16 age category) ; or
(b) Being a member of a national sports team should
have participated in South Asian Games, Asian Games,
Asian Championship Competitions, Commonwealth
Games, World Championship games or Olympic
Games ; or
(c) One year service experience as a sports officer in the
Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation or in any
other institution or attached to any provincial council
or have completed 3 years of service as a teacher in

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1385
sports under the Ministry of Education (from the
date of appointment) ; or
(d) Possesses 3 years of experience as a teacher,
instructor/tress in sports or physical education, a
volunteer in an institution recognized by the
government with excellent achievement of skills in
sports, or followed a graded coaching course conducted
by a registered association ; or
(e) Have successfully completed a preliminary and a
higher level course in sports not less than 6 months
duration, served as an instructor/tress in the police,
armed forces or civil defence services.
03. Preparation of Application :
3.1 Candidates possessing the necessary qualifications
mentioned above should submit their application in a
paper 8" x 13 1/2" as per specimen of application form
appearing at the end of this notice. Should be completed
in their own handwriting and sent by registered post to
The Director, National Institute of Sports Science,
100/7, Independence Avenue, Colombo 07, on or before
12.10.2009.
3.2 "Application for the Course of Diploma in Sports
2009/2010" should be written at the top left hand corner
of the envelope containing the application.
3.3 Applicants who are employed should forward their
application through their respective Heads institutions,
if not such application will be rejected.
3.4 An examination fee of Rs. 350 should be made payable
to "the Secretary of Ministry of Sports and Public
Recreation" by money order or postal order under
registered cover.
04. Selection of Candidates .– After the perusal of the
applications by the board of selectors, the suitable candidates will
be called for a written examination. Those candidates who are
successful in the examination according to the examination
requirements will be called for an interview, and a practical
examination. Those who are successful in all three stages will be
selected to follow the course.
05. Details of the Course :
5.1 Syllabus contents are in 5 sections as given below :
(a) General Theory of Training (Study of the Physical
Qualities and Skills, Techniques, Tactics, Training
Methods, Aspects of Planning, Principles of Load
and Tests) and Viva ;
(b) Theory and Practice of at least tem major sports ;
(c) Specialization in Track and Field Athletics ;
(d) Within the duration of Diploma Course, Specialization
is required in one Sport, other than Track and Filed
Athletics offered to the male or female students, as
the case may be among (Football/V ollyball/Netball/
Basketball) ;
(e) Includes general subjects such as Sports Physiology
and Sociology, Sports Administration, Organization
systems of sport festival, Sports Psychology, Sports
Medicine.
5.2 The duration of the Course is 12 months.
5.3 Those who are selected to this course and are not
employed should pay a sum of Rs. 15,000 as caurse fee.
Those who are working Government Department,
Corporations or Provincial Councils were to pay a sum
of Rs. 30,000 as course fee personally or through their
Institution. This payment should be made payable to
"the Secretary of Ministry of Sports and Public
Recreation" by cheque (admissions will be granted only
after the realization of cheque). This payment is not
refundable for any reason.
5.4 The selected candidate are bound by the rules and
regulations of the National Institute of Sports Science.
5.5 Certificate in "Diploma  in Sports Science" will be
awarded to those who complete the course successfully.
06. Other Conditions :
6.1 The Ministry does not hold responsibility to provide
employment to those who complete the course.
6.2 But if this Ministry requires that those following this
course should enter into an agreement with the Director
of the National Institute of Sports Science, they should
do so accordingly in consultation with the Director.
6.3 The application should be completed with maximum
qualification as required and incomplete applications are
not accepted.
6.4 The Director of the National Institute of Sports Science
will use his own discretion on any matter not specified
in this notice.
S. L
IYANAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation.
No. 7A, Reid Avenue,
Colombo 07,
24th of September, 2009.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SPORTS SCIENCE
DIPLOMA IN SPORTS SCIENCE - 2009/2010
01. (i) Full Name : Mr.//Mrs./Miss :————.
(ii) Name with initials:————.
(iii) Full Name (in English Capital Letters):
(iv) National Identity Card No.:————.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1386
02. Address:
(i) Private:————.
(ii) Official:————.
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :               Date :
(ii) Age as at ...........
Years :                           Months : Days :
04. (i) State whether citizen of Sri Lanka:————.
(ii) If so, by descent or by registration:————.
05. (i) Sex:————.
(ii) Marital Status:————.
06. Are you employed or not:————.
(i) Place where you are working:————.
(ii) Present Post:————.
(iii) Service of Post:————.
07. Educational Qualifications :
Year Name of Examination Subjects Grade
08. Achievements in Sports (Certificate obtained and special
achievements):————.
09. (i) According to the  Gazette Notification in which Paragraph
(2.2 a, b, c, d or e) you get qualified:————.
(ii) Give details of relevant Paragraph you have qualified :
————.
10. Any other special remarks :————.
11. Whether you are ready to pay course fee of Rs. 15,000 or
Rs. 30,000 if you are selected:————.
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. I
am aware that if any information given by me is found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the course.
————,
Applicant's Signature.
Date:————.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation Employees only :
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science :
I recommend for forwarding herewith the application of Mr./
Mrs./Miss ………………employee of ................. working as
……………… I certify that this applicant could be released for the
period of the Course if selected.
————,
Signature of the certify officer.
Name :————;
Designation:————.
Official Stamp:————;
Date :————.
09-250
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS,  SRI  LANKA
Islamic Deeniyyath (Dharmacharya) Certificate
Examination—2009
(Paralleled to Bauddha Dharmacharya Certificate Examination)
RULES and Regulations. – The above examination will be held by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The examination for
2009 will be held in the month of November, 2009. Subjects and the
syllabus for the examination are given in Annexure 02.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination centres will be set up
in towns given in Annex-1 considering the number of candidates.
Candidates will be attached to the nearest examination centre if
there are not enough candidates to set up an examination centre, in
a town.
3. Language Medium .– This examination will be conducted in
all three languages namely Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates
must sit for all the Papers in One and the Same.
4. Qualifications .– Candidates must possess any one of the
following qualifications. The qualification should have been
completed in the year 2006.
4.1. Pass in Ahadiya School Final Certificate Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.2 Maulavi Certificate awarded by an Arabic College registered
under the Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural
Affairs or pass in Al Alim Certificate Examination conducted
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.3 Three passes in G. C. E. A/L Examination conducted by
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, with Islam
or Islamic Civilization as a subject.
4.4 At least two years of teaching experience in an Ahadiya
School or an Arabic College and pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination including a Credit for the subject Islam.
Note : (1) Qualifications of candidates indicated in section
4 must be certified by the Principal of the
relevant Ahadiya School or Principal of the
relevant Senior Qur’an Madhrasa or Principal
of the relevant Arabic college.
 (2) Applications must be sent through a Principal
of a registered Ahadiya School or a registered
Arabic College. Private applications will not
be entertained.
5. Application forms and the instructions will be sent by post
to the registered Ahadiya Schools and Arabic Colleges. Institutions
which did not receive the applications and instructions should
contact the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, indicating the number of
applicants on or before 18th September, 2009.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1387
5.1 Application forms must be prepared in duplicate and the
original must be sent to the Department of Examinations.
The copy should be filed in the institution.
5.2 Application forms must be filled clearly and correctly.
Incomplete applications and those received after the
closing of application will be rejected.
5.3 Closing date of application will be 05th of October, 2009.
5.4 Completed application forms must be sent by registered
post to the following address :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla.
(Applications will not be acknowledged.)
5.5 The top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the
application should have the name of the Exam "Islamic
Deeniyyath (Dharmacharya) Certificate Examination-
2009" and the Centre of the choice (Name of the chosen
town written clearly).
5.6 No document should be annexed to the application. The
Principals of the Institutions should certify to the effect
that the applicant holds the prescribed qualifications.
6. Those who sit for the examination for the first time will be
allowed to sit free of charge. Other applicants must pay an
examination fee of Rs. 140. Referred Candidates who apply for
only one subject must pay Rs. 35 as examination fee.
6.1 Payment of examination fee .– Relevant amount should
be paid to Examinations Department Revenue Head
2003-20-13 at a post office and the receipt obtained
should be pasted on the application form. (It is advised
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the Head of the
institution that forwards the application).
7. Admission cards will be sent to the Principals of Ahadiya
schools or the Arabic colleges.
7.1 Applicants must hand over the admission cards to the
supervisor on the first instance of sitting the examination.
Failure to do so will result in the cancellation of
candidature.
7.2 Applicants’ signature on the admission card should be
attested by the Principal of Ahadiya School or the
Principal of the Arabic College.
8. Proof of Personal Identification.– Applicants should forward
any one of the following to prove their identity at the examination
centre :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) A valid passport.
9. Release of Results and Determination of Passes.– Candidates
who obtain passes in all five subjects will be considered to have
passed the examination. They will be awarded the Islamic
Deeniyyath Certificate for Islamic Dharmacharya. Those who obtain
passes in four subjects and not less than 25 marks in the fifth
subject will be considered as referred; and if they sit for the referred
subject at the subsequent three examination diet and obtain a pass,
they will be entitled for the award of certificate. The referred
candidate should indicate the details of their results of the previous
examination, i. e. the year, index number, subjects and the results
obtained in their application form.
10. Examination .– This examination consists five question
papers. Duration of each paper will be 3 hours. The question papers
are as follows:
(1) Aqeeda and Masadirush-shareea (Islamic principles and
legal sources) ;
(2) Al Fiqhul Islami (Islamic law) ;
(3)  Asseera waththaareekul Islami (Seera and Islamic history) ;
(4) Society and Ethics (Al Ahkhaq was Sulook) ;
(5) Islamic Literature and Arabic Language (Al lukathul
Arabiyya Wal Adhabul Islami).
11. Structure of the Question Paper :
• Each question paper will consist of Part I, II and III.
• The question in Part-1 is compulsory. There will be 10
short questions. Each question will carry 04 marks.
Eg : How would you convert your day-to-day activities
to Ibadha? (4 x 10 = 40 marks).
• Part-II will consist of 5 structured questions, out of which
only 4 questions should be answered. Each question carries
12 marks. (12x4=48 marks).
• Part-III will consist of 2 essay type questions, out of
which only one question should be answered. It carries 12
marks.  (12 x 1 = 12 marks).
12. Criteria for Determination of Passes  :
• Each question paper will carry a total of 100 marks.
• Pass mark will be 40 marks.
(a) 00 – 24 marks F
(b) 25 – 39 marks W
(
c) 40 – 54 marks S
(d) 55 – 64 marks C
(e) 65 – 74 marks B
(f) 75 – 100 marks A
13. Re-scruting of Answer Scripts.– Application for re-scrutiny
of answer scripts should be forwarded through the Principal of the
Institution in the stipulated forms provided by the Department of
Examination within 30 days from the release of results. However a
fee will levied and it will be refunded only if the results get changed.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1388
14. Each candidate should abide by the conditions and
instructions given above. Decisions of the Commissioner General
of Examinations will be final regarding any other matter not
mentioned above.
A
NURA EDIRISINGHE,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examination, Sri Lanka,
Pelewatte,
Battaramulla,
13th August, 2009.
ANNEXTURE - 1
T
OWNS WHERE EXAMINA TION CENTRES WILL BE SET-UP
District Number Town Number
01. Colombo District
Colombo Central 01
Bambalapitiya 02
02. Gampaha District
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Negombo 05
03. Kaluthara District
Kaluthara 06
Aluthgama 07
04. Galle District
Galle 08
05. Matara District
Matara 09
06. Hambantota District
Hambantota 10
07. Kegalle District
Warakapola 11
Mawanella 12
08. Kurunagala District
Kuliyapitiya 13
Kurungala 14
Galgamuwa 15
09. Puttalam District
Chilaw 16
Puttalam 17
Kalpitiya 18
10. Anuradhapura District
Anuradapura 19
Kekirawa 20
Galenbindunuwewa 21
11. Polonnaruwa District
Kaduruwela 22
12. Matale District
Matale 23
13. Kandy District
Kandy 24
Nawalapitiya 25
Akurana 26
14. Nuwara Eliya District
Nuwara Eliya 27
15. Ratnapura District
Balangoda 28
16. Badulla District
Badulla 29
Welimada 30
17. Monaragala District
Bibile 31
18. Ampara District
Sammanthurai 32
Kalmunai 33
Akkaraipattu 34
19. Batticaloa District
Kaththankudi 35
Eravur 36
Valaichenai 37
20. Trincomalee District
Trincomalee 38
Mutur 39
Kinniya 40
21. Vavuniya District
Vavuniya 41
22. Mannar District
Mannar 42
23. Mullaitivu District
Mullaitiwu 43
24. Kilinochchi District
Kilinochchi 44
25. Jaffna District
Jaffna 45
District Number Town Number

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1389
ANNEXURE-2
01. AQEEDHA AND MASADIRUSH-SHAREEA
1.1 Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.1 Islamic Aqeedha - Introduction and general description
1.1.2 Contents of Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.2.1 Thawheed
- Al uluhiyya
- Al rububiyya
- Understanding Allah’s characteristics through
Asmaul Husna
1.1.2.2 Ruhaniyyath
1.1.2.3 Nubuwwath
1.1.2.4 Sam-iyyath
1.1.2.5 Kala-Kadhr
1.1.3 Divisions of Aqeedha
1.2 Masadirush Shareea
1.2.1 Masadirun nakliyya - Introduction
1.2.2 Wahi
- Importance of Wahi
- Types of Wahi
1.2.3 Al-Quran
1.2.3.1 Revelation and complication
- Thartheeb nusul, thatheeb thilawath
1.2.3.2 Structure
- Makki - Madani
- Nasik - Mansoor
- Muhkam – Muthashabir
- Asbabun nusul
1.2.3.3 Ihjasul Quran
- Related to language
- Related to law
- Related to science
1.2.3.4 Art of Thafseer
- Origin and development
- Thafseers (Mankool, Mahkool, Modern
Thafseers)
1.2.3.5 Relations with Al-Quran
- Method of approaching Al-Quran
- Aims of Al-Quran
- Methods of learning Al-Quran
1.2.4 Assunna
1.2.4.1 Description – Literary and practical
1.2.4.2 Sunna as a source for making of law
1.2.4.3 Protection of Hadhees
- Nabi (sal)’s era
- Sahaba’s era
- Thabieens’s era
- Thabauth thabieen’s era
- Modern era
1.2.4.4 Hadhees related arts and their effects
- Asmaur rijal
- Ilmul jarah wath thahtheel
- Usulul Hadhees
1.2.4.5 Understanding of Hadhees
- Hadhees as guidance for life
- Hadhees compilations
1.2.4.6 Approaching Hadhees
- Understanding of Hadhees related to several fields
(Protection of  environment, health, economics,
science)
1.2.5 Supportive Sources
1.2.5.1 Ijthihad
- Description – Literary and practical
- Importance
- Divisions of thoughts (Madrasathul asar,
Madrasathul rauyu)
1.2.5.2 Mujthahids
- Qualifications and types
- Their contribution
- Origin and growth of Madhabs
1.2.5.3 Supportive Sources
- Mechanism and uses (Ijma, Kiyas, Maslaha,
Mursala, Urf, Sharau, Sabika, Isthishan, Isthishab,
Kawlussahaba, Sadhdhus Sarau)
02. A
L FIKHUL ISLAM
2.1 Ibadhath
2.1.1 Thaharath : Najees – Description
- Conditions and regulations
2.1.2 Ibadhath
- Literal description and application
- Types of Ibadhaths and its principles
- Relations between Imaan and Ibadhath
2.2 Basic Ibadhath
2.2.1 Salath
- Importance
- Types
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.2 Zakath
- Importance, regulations
- Benefits
- Importance of institutionalizing of Zakath
- Zakathul Fithr
2.2.3 Saum
- Importance, types
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.4 Al Haj
- Importance
- Regulations
- Benefits

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1390
2.2.5 Other Ibadhath
- Sadhaka, Umrah
- Thilawathul Quran, Thowba-Isthihfar, Zikr-Awradh,
Dua
- Kawf, Rajaa, Rila, Thawakkul, Warau, Suhdh
- Siyarathul Kuboor, Kurbani
2.3 Muamalath
2.3.1 Islamic Economy
- Introduction
-Characteristics
2.3.2 Earning and spending
- Importance of earning
- Agriculture (Musara-a, Ihyaul Mamath)
- Industry
2.2.3 Business
- Importance
-  Business methods approved by Islam (Samsara, Baiuth-
thakseedh, Mularaba, Musharaka, Murabaha, Ijara, Rahn)
- Modern business methods (Compare with other business
methods: eg: Banking, Insurance)
2.2.4 Methods of earning, prohibited by Islam
- Adulteration, cheating, hoarding
- Bribe, Gambling, Interest
- Selling things which are haram
2.4 Munakahath
2.4.1 Nikah
- Islamic view of Nikah
- Nikah – Regulations
- Polygamy
2.4.2 Family
- Importance of family life
- Husband-wife - relationship
- Duties and rights
- Bringing up of children - Teachings and guidance
- Parents and children – Duties and rights
- Warasath
2.4.3 Divorce
- Islamic view of divorce
- Types and regulations
- Iddhah - Description, conditions, maintenance
2.5 Jinayath
2.5.1 Jinayath – Introduction
2.5.2 Crimes
- Types
- Remedy
2.5.3 Punishment
- Islamic view of punishment
- Hudhoodh, Kisas, Thahseer
- Kaffara, Fidhya
03. S
EERA AND ISLAMIC HISTORY
3.1 Islamic view of History
- Characteristics of Islamic History
3.2 Historical Periods
3.2.1 Nabi (sal)’s period
- Period before Nabi (sal)
- Nabi (sal) - Makka period
- Nabi (sal) – Madeena period
3.2.2 Period of Kulafaurrshidheen
- Kaleefa – Method of selection
- Expansion of kingdom
- Reasons and methods
- Challenges encountered
- Personality traits and exemplars of Kaleefa
3.2.3 Period of later Kaleefas
3.2.3.1 Umayya period
- Uprise of Umayya
- Major Kaleefas – Personality traits and
contributions (Muaviya, Abdhul Malik,
Waleedh, Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez)
- Expansion of kingdom and consequences
- Challenges encountered
3.2.3.2 Abbasid period
- Uprise of Abbasis
- Major Kaleefas and their contributions
(Mansoor, Haroon, Mamoon)
- Comparisons of rules of Kulafaurrshidheen with
the rule of later Kaleefas
3.2.3.3 Other rulers
- Umayyad rule in Spain
- Mogul rule in India
- Usmaniaya rule in Turkey
3.2.3.4 Modern Islamic world
3.3 Islamic Art
3.3.1 Sciences
- Islamic of view of sciences
- Development of following sciences and contributions:
Medical, History, Mathematics, Astronomy,
Geography.
3.3.2 Aesthetic Art
- Islamic view of aesthetic art
- Origin and development of the following art: Quira-ath,
Calligraphy, Arabesque, Architecture, Miniature art,
Music
3.4 Contributions of Masjids in Islamic History
- Origin and services of masjids
- Origin and importance of the following masjids: Masjidhul
Haram, Masjidhul Nabavi, Masjidhul Aqsa
3.5 History of Sri Lankan Muslims
3.5.1 Arrival of Arabs
3.5.2 Introduction of Islam in Sri Lanka
3.5.3 Sri Lankan Muslims
- Spreading of settlements
- Old and new settlements

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1391
3.5.4 Religious and Social Structure
- Masjidhs
- Muslim Personal law
- Laws related to Wakf and divorce
- Court of Quasi and appeal court of Quasi
- Department of Muslim religious and cultural affairs
3.6 Muslim Historical Leaders
3.6.1 Sahabas
[Musab Ibnu Umair (Rali), Bilal (Rali), Saidh Ibnu Sabith
(Rali), Thulbijadhain (Rali), Ummu Amara (Rali), Asma
Binthi Abubakr (Rali), Fathima (Rali)]
3.6.2 Thabieens
(Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez, Saeedh Ibnu Musaiyyab, Atha
Inbu Abee Rabah, Imam Zuhri)
3.6.3 Thinkers – Reformers
(Abdhul Quadir Jeelani, Imam Gazzaly, Abul Hasan
Shathuli, Ibnu Kaiyyoom Al Jawsy, Muhammadh Ibnu
Abdhul Wahhab, Maulana Ilyas, Imam Hasanul Banna,
Maulana Maudhoodhi)
04. S
OCIETY AND ETHICS
4.1 Society
4.1.1 Introduction
- Man, Islamic view of universe and life
4.1.2 Individual man
- Man’s contribution in society
- Man’s duties towards society
4.1.3 Family
- Individual man and family
- Family’s role in Islamic social structure
- Family’s role and duties in the formation of individual
man
- Relationship in the family
- Relatives and neighbours
4.1.4 Society
- Characteristics of Islamic social structure (Equality,
brotherhood,    independence, justice)
- Man and society (Rights)
- Promoting good deeds and demoting bad deeds
- Characteristics and duties of Islamic trainer
- Relationships of Muslims in a multi-ethnic society
- Protecting the weak ones
- V ocational guidance
- Social ethics (Tolerance, compromise, thawasun, obeying
for leadership, social communication)
- Strengthening an weakening factors of social
relationships
4.2 Ethics
4.2.1 Relationships with Allah
- Ihlas
- Thaqwa
- Thawakkul
- Acceptance of Allah’s wills wholeheartedly
- Love towards Allah
-  Be thankful
4.2.2 Social ethics related to human relationships
- Brotherhood
- Truthfulness
- Trustworthy
- Forgiving
- Cleanliness
- Kindness
- Shyness
- Patience
4.2.3 Ethics related to other living beings and things
- Showing love towards living beings and look into their
welfare
- Protecting physical environment
- Doing good for the country
- Disaster management
05. I
SLAMIC LITERATURE AND ARABIC LANGUAGE
5.1 Islamic Literature
- Theories and Principles of Islamic Literature
- Modern Islamic Literature – An introduction
5.2 Contribution of the following individuals towards Islamic
Literature
In Tamil
-M.C.Siththy lebbe
-Dr.M.M.Uvais
-A.M.A.Azeez
-Umar Hazrath
-U.M.Thasim
-Poet, Abdhul Kadar lebbe
In Sinhala
-Dr.M.M.Uvais
-S.M.Mansoor
-A.M.Shahul Hameed
-M.H.M.Shums
-M.A.Mahamed Master (Dikwella)
-Matara, Cassim Poet
5.3 Arabic Tamil
5.3.1 Arabic Tamil - Introduction
- Arabic Tamil Origin and development
5.3.2 Knowledge related to the following creative works
- Fathuhudhdhayyan - Alimul Aroos
- Thafseer - Seiku Musthafa (Beruwala)
- Quthbas of Ibnu Nufadha
- Meesan Malai
- Thalai Fathiha
- Thakkashurudh
5.4 Arabic Language
5.4.1 Development of language skills
- Listening
- Speaking

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1392
- Reading
- Writing
5.4.2 W ords and phrases used in day-to-day life
- Short sentences
5.4.3 T ranslate into Arabic from English / Sinhala / Tamil
Translate into English / Sinhala / Tamil from Arabic
5.4.4 Answer questions related to a given paragraph
- Insertion of punctuation marks in the paragraph
5.4.5 Appreciation of literature – Al Quran and Sunna
- Mufradhathul Quran
- Description of a given situation
5.4.6 Ahkamuth Thajweedh – Laws of Thajweedh
5.4.7 Grammatical knowledge
5.4.7.1 Assarbu
- Verbs - Past, present and future
- Verbs - First person, second person, third person
- Difference of masculine, feminine, singular and
plural
- Verb - Commands
- Passive verbs - In past and present tense
- Base verbs (Masther)
- Plural forms
5.4.7.2 Annahwu
- Al mufthadha wal kafar
- Al fial wal fa-il
- Asmaul Ishara
- Assifath
- Huruful Jarru
- Al mulaf wal mulaf ilaihi
- Kaana wa akawathuha
- Inna wa akawathuha
- Al Haal
09-292
COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION TO  RECRUIT  SUB
POSTMASTERS – 2009
THE under-mentioned amendments are hereby made regarding the
notification of Competitive Examination to recruit Sub Postmasters
to the vacant Sub Post Offices published in the Gazette paper of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 17.07.2009. You
are informed that there are no vacancies in the under-mentioned
offices. Examination fees paid for them will be refunded to the
applicants.
Name of Sub Post Division of Div. Supt.
Office of POO
01 Kudahakapola Gampaha
02 Mutwal South Colombo
03 Uva Udunuwara Badulla
04 Aluthnuwara Kegalle
05 Borukgamuwa Kegalle
06 Kehelpannala Kegalle
07 Vijaya Sri Gama Kandy South
08 Handaganawa Kandy South
09 Mahasenpura Anuradhapura
10 Panama Akkaraipattu
11 Chemamadukulam V avuniya
12 Palammoddai V avuniya
13 Kannatty V avuniya
M. K. B. D
ISSANAYAKA,
Postmaster General.
Postal Headquarters,
No. 310, D. R. Wijewardane Mawatha,
Colombo 01000.
06th August, 2009.
09–388
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-Service Professional
Course in Teacher Education - 2010
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre Servic e
Professional Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility : Every applicant should -
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health ;
2.3 Age :
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as on 01.01.2010 ;
2.3.2 Clergy who apply for the course of Catholicism/Christianity should not be more than 30 years of age as on 01.01.2010;
2.3.3 Buddhist Monks/Buddhist Nuns who apply for the Course of Buddhism should not be more than 27 years of age as
on 01.01.2010 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1393
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2008  (Two passes for Sri Pada
National College of Education).
(Applicants for Technological Studies Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.13 and applicants for Christianity/
Chatholicism course should refer to the Note in paragraph 4.10 ).
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects  including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language with three Credit passes at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings. (Should have passed at least 5 Core subjects at the first sitting).
3.3 If the Special requirements in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been completed in two sittings,
they should have been completed at the third sitting. (Special requirements will be considered only if the applicants have
completed the basic qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above. If Special qualifications have not been especially mentioned;
only the qualifications mentioned under 3.1 and 3.2 will be considered).
3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Language Course and English Medium Courses.
3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses except for English Language Course should have obtained a Credit
pass in English/Ordinary pass in English Literature at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
3.4.2 Applicants for the English Language Course should have obtained Very Good Pass in English Language/Credit Pass
in English Literature. A Credit for English or an Ordinary  Pass for English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) will be
sufficient if the applicants have passed English Language as a subject in G.C.E. (A/L). However, in case of obtaining
the same mark by two or more applicants, performance at G .C.E. (A/L) (Z score) will be considered.
3.4.3 Although the Courses on  Information Communcation Technology, Western Music are conducted in the English
Medium, the applicants are selected from those who have appeared G.C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil or English
Medium concerning the number of vacancies existing in Sinhala and Tamil Medium Schools.
3.5 All applicants should fulfill their requirements on  or before the closing date of applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special Requirements :
Educational qualifications and other special requirements applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows :
4.1 Course No. 01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2008 (Two passes including
Sinhala/Tamil Language for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.1.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil
Language and two other subjects.
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Sinhala)
Science (Tamil)
Science (English)
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2008 in the following subjects :  Physics,
Chemistry and Biology (Two passes in any of the  above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education); and
4.2.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Mathematics 32 or Mathematics 42
Note:  Science (English) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1394
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and apeared for G.C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium.
4.3 Course No. 03 - Mathematics (Sinhala)
Mathematics (Tamil)
Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2008  in the following subjects :
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two passes in one of the
following subjects including Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and Higher Mathematics for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ; and
4.3.2 Passed at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Science 34.
Note.–  Mathematics  (English) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and apeared for G.C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium.
4.4 Course No. 04 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
Physical Education (Tamil)
4.4.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2008 ; and
4.4.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Health and Physical Education
and Mathematics ;  and
4.4.3 Achievements /performances of the recognized Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports. A maximum of 75
marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS /EVENTS
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single —— 1 25
2 International Level single —— 2 24
3 International Level single —— 3 23
4 International Level —— team 1 22
5 International Level —— team 2 21
6 International Level —— team 3 20
7 International Level single team —— 19
  Representation
8 National Level single —— 1 18
9 National Level single —— 2 17
10 National Level single —— 3 16
11 National Level —— team 1 15
12 National Level —— team 2 14
13 National Level —— team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single —— 1 12
15 Provincial Level single —— 2 11
16 Provincial Level single —— 3 10
17 Provincial Level —— team 1 09
18 Provincial Level —— team 2 08
19 Provincial Level —— team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major —— —— —— 06
/Warrant Officer 1

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1395
21 Presidents’ Scout/Girl Guide —— —— —— 06
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant —— —— —— 05
Officer 2
23 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal / single —— 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal / —— team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal / —— team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal / —— team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level
4.4.4 Following marks will be awarded for passes obtained for the Health and Physical Education at G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
A Pass  -  05
B Pass  -  03
       C Pass  - 02
Note:
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions (International).–  Participation at International Competitions representing
Sri Lanka National Teams or School National Sports Teams (except Chess, Carom and Draught) through
Ministry of Education / Ministry of Sports and their registered sports Associations (Participation in International
Competitions on personal basis by school sports teams will not be considered).
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions .– National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/
Ministry of Sports/National Youth Services Council.
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education /Provincial Ministry of
Sports /National Youth Services Council.
District Level Competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/Provincial Ministry of Sports
/National Youth Services Council.
Zonal level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education.
(iii) 1st, 2nd and 3rd places in “A” Grade competitions organized by Sports Associations registered  under the
Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education will only be given priority in order.
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements within the preceding five years before the closing
date of the application will only be valid.
Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
4.5 Course No. 05 -  Home Economics and Food Technology (Sinhala)
  Home Economics and Food Technology (Tamil)
4.5.1 Passed  three subjects including Home economics at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2008 ; and
4.5.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil Language,  Mathematics and a credit pass
for Science.
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1396
4.6 Course No. 06- English
4.6.1 Passed any Three Subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2008 including English Language (Not General
English) with credit pass for English Language/Ordinary pass in English Literature and Six core subjects including
Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ;  or
4.6.2 Passed any Three Subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 and three passes including
English at London G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 and credit pass in English Language/Ordinary pass
in English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination/London G . C. E. (O/L) examination having passed six core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics ;  or
4.6.3 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008  and passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in
six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a very good pass in English Language/
Credit pass in English Literature.
Note :
(i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.6.1 and 4.6.2 they do not need to sit for the proficiency test. Their
qualifications should be proved at the interview.
(ii) Applicants who are qualified under 4.6.3 will be selected through the Selection Test.
4.7 Course No. 07 - Buddhism
Buddhist Priests/Nuns and the Laity can apply for the Course of Buddhism. All requirements should have been
completed in Year 2008 or before. (Laity candidates should have completed all educational qualifications in their laity
name in Year 2008 or before).
4.7.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2008 with three subjects including two out of Buddhism,
Buddhist Civilization, Pali and Sinhala.
4.7.2 Passed Pracheena, Preliminary examination (only for Buddhist Priests/Nuns).
4.7.3 Passed Buddha Dharmacharya Examination.
4.7.4 Passed Daham School Final Examination.
4.7.5 Passed  G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Buddhism and
Mathematics passed Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination in six core subjects with Sinhala Language,
Mathematics and Tripitaka Dharma.
Note :
(i) Priority order in selection –
(a) Applicants having all certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.7.3, 4. 7. 4 and 4.7. 5
(b) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2 and 4.7.5
(c) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.3 and 4.7.5
(d) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5
(e) Applicants having certificates 4.7.1 and 4.7.5
4.8 Course No. 08 - Hinduism
4.8.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the  following subjects. – Hinduism, Hindu Civilization and
Sanskrit in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 ;
4.8.2 Candidates having Shaiva Siddhantha Pandithar Certificate ;
4.8.3 Candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.8.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1397
4.8.5 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Hinduism.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having 4.8.1 and all other certificates ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.4, 4.8.5 and one certificate out of other two ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.5 and one certificate out of other three ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1., 4.8.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2008 or earlier.
4.9 Course No. 09- Islam
4.9.1 Three passes including one of the following subjects - Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic in the G . C. E.
(A/L) examination held in Year 2008.
4.9.2 Passed Al-Alim Examination (Both Part 1 and Part 2) ;
4.9.3 Having Moulavi Certificate and passed Part 1 in Al-Alim examination,
4.9.4 Having Moulavi Certificate,
4.9.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and Islam.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having 4.9.1, 4.9.5 and all other certificates indicated above.
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1, 4.9.3, 4.9.4. and 4.9.5
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1, 4.9.4 and 4.9.5
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.9.1 and 4.9.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2008 or earlier.
4.10 Course No. 10 - Catholicism/Christianity (Sinhala)
                          Catholicism/Christianity (Tamil)
4.10.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 and passes in six core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
Ordinary pass for Christianity in G. C. E. (A/L) examination or Credit pass for Catholicism/Christianity in
G . C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
The certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics to be a teacher of Catholicism and the certificate of National
Christian Council for Christians to be a teacher of Christianity.
4.10.2 Selection of Catholicism candidates will be made by giving priority in the order of following qualifications :
4.10.2.1 Four year course certificate on Theology (BTH) ;
or
4.10.2.2 Christian Philosophy certificate conducted by the National Seminary ;
or
4.10.2.3 Three year religious education course certificate in Deva Dharma Nikethanaya ;
or
4.10.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that the candidate has successfully
completed the study of the religious education and training course (Novitiate) to become a member
of the clergy ;
or
4.10.2.5 Passed the Catholic Dharmacharya examination conducted by the National Catechetical Centre
Namely Dharmacharya Hons/Dahamguru 3 ;
or

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1398
Dharmacharya Special (Dahamguru 2) or Dharmacharya Ordinary (Dahamguru 1) ;
or
4.10.2.6 Passed Christianity in G.  C. E. (A/L) examination.
4.10.3 Selection of candidates for Christianity will be made according to the qualifications indicated in the following
order :
4.10.3.1 Should have obtained Dharma V edi Diploma conducted by Lanka Theological College, Pilimathalawa.
4.10.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge conducted by National Christianity
Council.
Note.– (i) To select 90% from all admissions, Catholic candidates qualified under 4.10.1 will be selected on the
serial order shown under 4.10.2 When 90% of Catholic candidates have not applied, Christian candidates
will be selected for such vacancies.
(ii) 10% of the total number of admissions will be selected from among Christian candidates qualified under
4.10.1 according to the serial order shown under 4.10.3. If 10% Christian candidates have not applied,
Catholic candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
(iii) 40% of the total number of admissions will be selected from Catholic and Christian Clergy. If the
required percentage (40%) of vacancies cannot be filled out of clergy, selection will be made from Laity
applicants.
(iv) In case of sufficient applicants of the Clergy who have passed G . C. E. (A/L) in 2008  are not available,
those (clergy) who have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination immediately preceding the Years 2007,
2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 will be selected considering the closest year to 2008. If 40% of the Clergy
candidates have not applied layman candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
4.11 Course No. 11 - Special Education (Sinhala)
                           Special Education (Tamil)
4.11.1 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 ;
and
4.11.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in Six  core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
Note : The applicants of this course are considered to appoint as techers to teach those of special educational
needs such as visually-impairments, hearing-impairments, multi-impairments, austism, learning difficulties
and intellectual deficiencies, Hence, only those who agree to service in the classrooms where the impaired
children learn, should apply.
4.12 Course No. 12 - Agriculture (Sinhala)
                         Special Education (Tamil)
4.12.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008  with Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry ;
or
4.12.2 Passed three subjects including Agriculture/Agricultural Technology/Bio - Rescource T echnology / Food
Technology at  G. C. E. (A/L) examination in year 2008 ;
and
4.12.3 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with Credit passes for Mathematics
and Science.
Note : Priority will be given to the Applicants qualified under 4.12.1
4.13 Course No. 13- Technical Studies (Sinhala)
                         Technical Studies  (Tamil)
4.13.1 Design and Technology
4.13.1.1 Passed three subjects including one of the following components in Hard Technology at G . C. E. (A/L)
examination in Year 2008.
(i) Civil Technology,
(ii) Mechanical Technology,
(iii) Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology ;
or

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1399
4.13.1.2 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 ;
and
4.13.1.3 Passed 6 core subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language,
and one subject out of the followings. Wood work, Masonry/Construction Technology/Metal work/
Motor Mechanism/Mechanical Technology/Radio Mechanism/Electric and Electronic Technology.
4.13.2 Crafts and Arts :
4.13.2.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 ;
and
4.13.2.2 Passed six core subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language,
and one other subject out of Weaving/Pottery/Craft and Art ;
and
4.13.3 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is relevant to the
subject area and formally issued indicating the subject performance level and conducted by a Government
approved Technical College/National Apprentice Board/V ocational Training Authority/Textile Industries
Department/Small Industries Department.
Note.– (i) Priority Order of selection
  Design and Technology
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.13.1.1 and 4.13.1.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.13.1.2, 4.13.1.3 and 4.13.3
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) and (b) are   not available, the applicants who have
passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2007 and 2006 will be considered as per (a) and (b)
mentioned in this gazette notification.
Craft and Art :
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.13.2.1, 4.13.2.2 and 4.13.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.13.2.1 and 4.13.2.2
(i) If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) is not available, the applicants who have passed
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2007 and 2006 will be considered as per (a). If further vacancies
are available he applicant who have passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2008, 2007 and 2006
as per (b) wil be considered.
(ii) In the application, under Section 16.1it must be clearly indicate the applying  field of the course whether
the course as Design and Technology or Crafts and Art.
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the
applications.
4.14 Course No. 14 – Art (Sinhala)
                           Art (Tamil)
4.14.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008  including Art ;
and
4.14.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Art.
4.14.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Art/Art and Sculpture at G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2008.
4.15 Course No. 15 – Dance  (Oriental)
4.15.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 including Dance ;
and
4.15.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Mathematics and Dance.
4.15.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Dance in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year
2008.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1400
4.16 Course No. 16 – Dance  (Bharatha)
4.16.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 including Bharatha Natyam. (Two subjects
including Bharatha Natyam for Sri Pada National College of Education).
4.16.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Bharatha
Natyam.
4.16.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Bharatha Natyam in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2008.
Note.– If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
held in Year 2008 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Bharatha Natyam in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination.
4.17 Course No. 17 – Music  (Oriental)
4.17.1 Passed three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 including Music ; and
4.17.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Mathematics and Music.
4.17.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Music at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year
2008.
4.18 Course No. 18 – Music  (Carnatic)
4.18.1 Passed any three subjects including Carnatic Music at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 (Two passes
including Carnatic music for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.18.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Carnatic
Music.
4.18.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Carnatic Music in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2008.
Note.– (I) If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National
College of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination held in Year 2008 with two subject in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Carnatic music at
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.19 Course No. 19 – Western Music  (English)
4.19.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 including Western Music  ; and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music and, with a Credit pass for English Language or an ordinary pass for English Literature ; or
4.19.2 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 ; and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music with a Credit pass in English language or an ordinary pass in English Literature. ; and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory and Practical) from a recognized institute approved by the Colleges of
Education Board. ; or
Passed Western Music at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination as an additional subject.
Note : (i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the practical test conducted for Western Music
Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.19.1.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1401
4.20 Course No. 20 – Drama and Theatre (Sinhala)
                  Drama and Theatre (Tamil)
4.20.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 including Drama and Theatre ; and
4.20.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Drama
and Theatre/Music or Dance ;
4.20.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Drama and Theatre at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2008 ;
4.20.4 Note.– Priority will be given to the Applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
In case of sufficient applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G . C. E. (O/L) examination are not available
those who have passed Music/Dance at G. C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered.
4.21 Course No. 21 – Information Communication Technology (English)
4.21.1 Passed in any three subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 (Two subjects for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ; and
4.21.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a Credit pass for
English language/an ordinary pass for English Literature and credit pass for Mathematics.
Note :
(i) Applicants who apply for this Course should sit for the Selection test.
(ii) This test paper is an objective type of 1-1/2 hour question paper.
This test measures competency of the candidate in order to the basic concept of mathematical necessary to
follow the Information communication Technology.
(iii) Applicants shall sit for the Selection Test in Sinhala, Tamil or English medium of study.
(iv) Indicate the preferred medium under 1.0 para of the application as S/T/E.
4.22 Course No. 22 – Social Science  (Sinhala)
                      Social Science  (Tamil)
4.22.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 including one subject out of History, Political
Science and Geography. (Two passes in above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education). ; and
4.22.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, and Mathematics and with
a credit pass for Social Science and History.
Sri Pada National College of Education conducts the Social Science Course only for Tamil Medium Students.
4.23 Course No. 23 – First Language  (Tamil)
4.23.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 in three subjects including a Credit pass for Tamil subject. (Two
passes including Tamil for Sri Pada National College of Education). ; and
4.23.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a credit pass in Tamil language.
4.24 Course No. 24 – Second National Language  (Sinhala)
4.24.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2008 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Sinhala.  ; and
4.24.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Tamil as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Tamil issued by the
Official Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1402
4.25 Course No. 25 - Second National Language (Tamil)
4.25.1 P assed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2008 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Tamil ;  and
4.25.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Tamil Language.
Note : The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Sinhala as a Second National Language at
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Sinhala issued by the
Official Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
5.0 Number of the Course, Name of the Course and the Medium of the National Colleges of Education where each course will be
conducted and the respective number of the NCoE are given below :
(Refer the chart carefully and identity the number of your course correctly before filling in the appilcation form. Your applic ation
will be computerized referring to your Coruse Number. Applications that are filled incorrectly will be rejected. No alteration is
permitted after your application is sent to the Branch of National Colleges of Education, Ministry of Education.)
(i) Column - Course Number.
(ii) Column - Course Name.
(iii) Column - NCoEEs where Sinhala medium courses are conducted.
(iv) Column - NCoEEs where Tamil medium courses are conducted.
(v) Column - NCoEEs where English medium courses are conducted.
(The numbers of the National College of Education are given within brackets.)
Course Course Name NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
01 Primary Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(7) Sri Pada (7) Sri Pada
(11) Pulathisipura (8) Addalaichenai
(14) Ruhuna (15) Jaffna
(17) Hapitigam (16) Dharga Town
02 Science (2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
03 Mathematics (2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
04 Physical Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(8) Addalaichenai
05 Home Economics and Food Technology (14) Ruhuna (6) V avuniya
(16) Dharga Town
06 English (3) Mahaweli
(10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
07 Buddhism (4) Sariputta
08 Hinduism (6) Vavuniya
(15) Jaffna
09 Islam (8) Addalaichenai
10 Catholicism/Christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
(15) Jaffna
11. Special Education (17) Hapitigam (8) Addalaichenai
(15) Jaffna

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1403
12 Agriculture (11) Pulathisipura (6) V avuniya
(9) Batticaloa
13 Technical Studies (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
14 Art (12) Wayamba (8) Addalaichenai
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
15 Dance (Oriental) (12) Wayamba
16 Dance (Bharatha) (7) Sri Pada
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
17 Music (Oriental) (12) Wayamba
18 Music (Carnatic) (7) Sri Pada
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
19 Western Music (3) Mahaweli
20 Drama and Theatre (12) Wayamba (9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
21 Information Communication Technology (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada
(13) Ruwanpura
(16) Dhar ga Town
22 Social Science (7) Sri Pada (6) Vavuniya
(7) Sri Pada
(14) Ruhuna (9) Batticaloa
23 First Language (Tamil) (7) Sri Pada
(16) Dharga Town
24 Second Language (Sinhala) (3) Mahaweli
25 Second Language (Tamil) (3) Mahaweli
Note : (i) Only Tamil medium female applicants should apply to Dharga Town National College of Education.
(ii) Courses for Bharatha Dance, Carnatic Music will be conducted only in Tamil Medium, while Courses for Western
Music, Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in English Medium.
6.0 Procedure for Selection of Trainees for Year 2010 :
6.1 Basic of Selection :
6.1.1 The number of trainees to be admitted will be decided based on the teacher carder requirements in the school system
in the year 2013.
6.1.2 The basis of selection will be the Z score obtained at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2008. Student will be selected for
English/Information Communication Technology and Physical Education Courses on the achievements and performances
of Proficiency Selection Tests and Sports. The Z Score will be the deciding factor when several candidates score same
marks at proficiency and performance tests. Selection for all courses will be 40% on National Level and 60% on
Difficult District Level except for Sri Pada National College of Education.
6.1.3 Applicants who prefer to follow English Medium Coruses Western Music and Information Communication Technology
should qualify with a Credit pass in the English Language or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature. Applicants for
English Language Course should have obtained a very good pass in English Language or Credit Pass in English
Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination including six core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics.
6.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the Practical Test conducted for Physical Education and Western
Music.
Course Course Name NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1404
6.2 Difficult District Basis :
6.2.1 Admission for difficult districts will be made from applicants belonging to the 17 districts deemed as difficult based
on the distribution of educational facilities. (Matale, Mullativu, Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Vavuniya, Polonnaruwa,
Hambantota, Trincomalee, Badulla, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Moneragala, Kilinochchi, Ampara, Ratnapura, Mannar,
Puttalam).
Number to be admitted from each district will be decided for each course proportional to the number of students
appeared for G. C. E. (A/L) - 2008 Examination in all media in respective districts.
6.2.2 If the expected number from relevant difficult district is not available, vacancies will be filled from other districts.
6.2.3 Determination of Districts :
6.2.3.1 The district of any school applicant will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or major part of the Five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the last
day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E. (A/L) examination at
the first sitting.
6.2.3.2 If any private applicant had left the school after having previously sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination as a
school applicant, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school from which he/she had first
sat the above examination.
6.2.3.3 If any private applicant has left the school without having previously sat for the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or the major part of the five years (more than 2 1/2) years period ending on the
last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
at the first sitting.
6.2.3.4 If any private applicant has not studied in a School, he/she should confirm his/her district of residence with the
voter's list of Election Commissioners Office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.
6.3 Selection for Sri Pada National College of Education :
6.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese applicants.
6.3.1.1 On the required number of vacancies prevailing at State-schools in plantation districts, 35% of the candidates
will be appointed to the Moneragala, Badulla and Ratnapura Districts.
6.3.2 75% will be selected to Tamil Medium Courses while 25% will be selected to Sinhala Medium Courses.
6.3.3 Primary, Mathematics and Science Courses will be conducted in the Sinhala Medium whereas Information
Communication Technology Course, in the English Medium. Primary, Mathematics, Science, Music (Carnatic),
Dance (Bharatha), Social Science and First Language (Tamil) Courses will be conducted in the Tamil Medium. (These
courses will be offered at Sri Pada National College of Education.).
6.3.4 Applications for admission to Sri Pada National College of Education will be entertained only from children of the
residents in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla, Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and
Kurunegala Plantation Districts.
In case of insufficient number of children of the estate workers as applicants from the estate sector, applications from
those of the estate workers who worked at least 05 years after 1999 will be considered although they are not
employed at the moment. (Priority is given sequentially as 2008, 2007, 2006.) In case of insufficiency of qualified
applicants from Plantation Districts, Tamil Medium applicants who are from other Districts with Indian Origin will
be considered. But, they should have passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L).
In case of insufficient number of Sinhala Medium applicants from Plantation Districts, the rest of the vacancies are
filled from those who applied for the same course in other National Colleges of Education.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1405
6.3.5 At the interview the children of the employees in the State and Private Sector Estate Companies should submit a letter
from the Estate Superintendent relating to service (indicating employee's period of service) that he is permanently
serving for the past period of 05 years or more/retirement from the plantation sector (indicating year and date clearly).
Candidate's letter agreeing to serve a period of ten years continuously in the schools in the plantation sector after the
training and letters to prove that deductions are being done for the Employees Provident Fund including Registration
Numbers. Paragraph 6.2.2 will be applied for the applicants of Sri Pada National College of Education when deciding
district of applicants.
6.3.6 In selection, at least one applicant will be considered for each relevant district.
Note : In the case of an applicant having an Indian Tamil Origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium will be considered for
the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil Origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had studied in Tamil Medium will
be considered for the Sinhala medium percentage.
7.0 Other Matters related to Selection :
7.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm their eligibility
on the date of conducting the interview. A number of applicants more than the number of vacancies will be called for the
interview.
7.2 Applicants who fail to submit the originals of all certificates will not be considered.
7.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the
expected level in the Course and the Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/she should be subjected to a special
interview and after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board the decision taken by the Board should
be implemented.
7.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the relevant College of Education within 03 days from the due date, he/ she
will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled according to the merit
order. Appeals from the applicants who fails to register within 03 days from the due date will strictly not be considered.
7.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to a College of Education to
ascertain whether they are physcially and mentally fit for service in any part of the island.
7.6 After the admission to any Course/National College of Education permission will not be granted to change such Course/
College of Education. If a sufficient number of applicants are not available for a particular Course the applicants will be
transferred to the nearest College of Education where such Courses are conducted.
7.7 In selecting applicants for a Course, if the number of applicants who have obtained equivalent Z Score at the G. C. E. (A/L)
is in excess of the number of vacancies available, the results obtained by the applicants at the G . C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting
will be considered. Marks will be awarded as 03 marks for a Distinction pass, 02 marks for a credit pass and 01 mark for an
ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total number of marks obtained. The award
of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
8.0 Persons who are not eligible to apply or to get admitted :
8.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government or in Private Schools.
8.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a Government School.
8.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course in a College of Education.
8.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree Course in a University or University Institute or any other Higher
Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirement. (Students who were/are already registered and withdrawn
the registration will not be eligible to apply.). And those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on
disciplinary ground.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1406
9.0 Conditions applicable for Training :
9.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period consists of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year internship training while being attached to a school. Attendance of a student
teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations at the end of the second year.
9.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests held in the first and the second year. Internal Test conducted at th e
end of the second year and the external final examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Except, those who
follow the English Courses all those who follow other Courses should pass in the English subject at the above examinations.
Applications should be forwarded only by those who agree to the above conditions.
9.3 During the period of two years residential training a trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities to the value of
Rs. 2,000 per month for ten months in a year. During the Internship year a monthly allowance of Rs. 2,500 will be paid for
ten months. Other expenses for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
9.4 During the period of training a trainee will not be allowed to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in a
University, University Institution or other Higher Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is treated as the entry requirement.
If it is proved that a trainee had followed such a Course all expenses incurred for him/her will be surcharged and the trainee
will be removed from the Course.
9.5 If the trainees get married during the period of training their studentship will be cancelled.
9.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during the period of
training he will be removed from training. Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the
first year of academic training or found to be following any other Course in an Institute as indicated at 9.4 they will be
removed from the Course. Regarding these matters the decision made by the Colleges of Education Board shall be the final
decision.
9.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President of the College
during the period of training or by the Principal of the school during the Internship period the trainee will be referred to a Special
Interview Board. A final decision will be taken after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board.
9.8 Trainees should enter into an Agreement with the Ministry of Education with an undertaking to pay back the cost incurred
by the Ministry in providing training if they would leave the training before the completion of the specified period of three
years training course.
9.9 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the trainees who will successfully complete the Training Course. Course
Work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed during
the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.
9.10 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be considered for grant of appointments as teachers based on the
availability of vacancies on Education Zonal Level in difficult districts.
9.10.1 In future priority will be given to those who complete this Training Course in awarding teaching appointments for
Government Schools. Therefore, the candidates who are invited for the interviews for selecting to the above Course
should appear for the interview only if would agree to the above conditions.
9.10.2 Priority is given to those who will follow this training courses in appointing teachers to Government Schools.
Therefore, candidates should appear for the interviews if only they can adhere to the conditions mentioned above.
9.10.3 Applicants who receive their training under the above conditions should enter into an Agreement with the Secretary
of the Ministry of Education that they will serve under the Ministry of Education for a minimum period of five (5)
years from the date of appointment in the Difficult District/Education Zone they have been appointed. The
Education Zone for which the appointment has been given will not be changed for any reason whatsoever.
9.11 Applicants who get registered in a National College of Education should sign a Bond for Rs. 500,000 for the cost to be
incurred for providing training and for supply of infra structure facilities. A student who leave the Course half way or who

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1407
fail to serve for five years under the Government will be subjected to a condition for paying the total amount in the Bond to
the Government.
9.12 All educational and other qualifications should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for applications.
10.0 Application :
10.1 An applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 courses. If applied for the same course in two media, it is considered as applied
for two courses. Such applicant can apply only for one more course. Buddhist monks should apply for the Course of
Buddhism whereas the clergy of Christianity, Hinduism and Islam for their respective courses of religions.
10.2 An applicant can enclose only one application and two of its certified copies in the same envelope. If any applicant has
submitted applications other than the above mentioned application and the two certified copies all the applications will be
rejected.
10.3 Application should be prepared according to the Specimen Form and instructions given below.
10.4 Applications should be sent under registered post and addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), Colleges of
Education Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before 25.09.2009.
Specimen of the envelope in which the application is enclosed should be as follows :
‘Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education 2010
Course Number indicated as first preference .......... Medium ................
Apply to the Sri Pada National College of Education Yes/No.
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education),
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(It is stressed that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations).
10.5 The postal receipt of registration issued in forwarding the application and a photo copy of the application should be sent
in all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals. Hence, these documents should be kept with the candidate.
10.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, Year and Course Number as well as the incomplete and
informal applications will be rejected.
10.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
10.8 No other document should be attached to the application.
10.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate the candidate will  be
dismissed from service and he will be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
11.0 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges of
Education Board will be the final decision.
12.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala Text shall
prevail.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
26th August, 2009.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1408
INSTRUCTIONS    FOR    THE    PREPARATION    OF    APPLICATION    FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only three courses to which you are eligible. Submit only one application form
with two of its photocopies enclosed in one envelope. (School applicants should get the photo copies certified by the Principal
while the private applicants should get them certified by a Justice of the Peace).
2.0 Application should be prepared in a A4 size white paper (21 x 29.7c.m.) in conformity with the specimen form. Paragraphs 1.0
to 09.4 should be included in the first page. In places where information has to be given in a cage, mark “x” in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared based on the
information given from 1.0 to 09.4 in the first page. Specially the Course Number, Index Number of G . C. E. (A/L) and Z Score
should be confirmed as accurate. Please note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and ille gible
and erroneous writing.
4.0 The information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical Education Course,
Paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course,
Paragraph 14.0 for Catholicism /Christianity Course,
Paragraph 15.0 for Hinduism/Islam Course,
Paragraph 16.0 for Technological Studies and paragraph 17.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully in filling the
application. The information specified will not be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the districts are indicated below  :
Colombo – 01 Hambantota – 09 Amparai – 17
Gampaha – 02 Jaffna – 10 Puttalam – 18
Kalutara – 03 Kilinochchi – 11 Kurunegala – 19
Matale – 04 Mannar – 12 Anuradhapura – 20
Kandy – 05 Mullativu – 13 Polonnaruwa – 21
Nuwara Eliya – 06 Vavuniya – 14 Badulla – 22
Galle – 07 Trincomalee – 15 Moneragala – 23
Matara – 08 Baticaloa – 16 Kegalle – 24
Ratnapura – 25
6.0 Symbol for each Medium : Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2010
(An applicant should submit only one application and two certified photo copies of the application enclosed in one envelope. Applications
which are not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in the application sho uld be
included in the first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.4).
1.0
Preference Course College Course Medium Course Number (21) and the medium of
Number Number S/T/E the examination (S/T/E)
1
2
3
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letters) Example : PERERA R. C.
Mr./Miss :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential address :
  In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para 6.2.3 in Gazette Notification :
District :–––––––––––. District No.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1409
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month  Date
5.2 National Identity Card No.
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female   2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G. C. E. (A/L) in Year 2008 :
8.1 Y ear Medium of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.2 Index No.
8.3 Z score                    . It Z is minus indicate M
8.4 Details of results subject wise
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for English and English medium Courses at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature
Year : Subject No.
Index No.
9.2 Are you applying to Sri Pada National Collge of Education ? Y es 1 No 2
9.3 If yes indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking ( ‘x’ in the relevant cage) :
Yes 1 N o 2
9.4 Total marks included for Section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil
10.0 If you have sat the G. C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2008, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 No. of sitting for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1410
11.0 Details of G . C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed .............. ............. ..............
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the Clause 4.4.3 in Para. 4.4 of the Gazette Notification :
(Only those who apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the
Clauses in 4.4.3 when you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports/competency will be sufficient.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grade as in 4.4.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 09.4 in the first page of this application.
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-Inter-national/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.4.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L), Grade          Marks
Total Marks
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final Examination according to 4.7 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Year
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject 1 1 1
Grade 2 2 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1411
14.0 The applicant of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para. 4.10 of the Gazette Notification.
Name of  the Course/Certificate Duration
From  To Grade
14.1 Degree in Theology (BTH)
14.2 Philosophy Certificate (BPH) conducted by the National and Seminary
14.3 Dharmachariya Certificate conducted by the National Catechetical center
14.4 Three year religious education course in Deva Dharma Niketanaya
14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that
the candidate has successfully completed the study of  the religious
education and training course (Novitiate) or become a member of the clergy
14.6 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Theological
College Pilimatalawa
 14.7 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge
conducted by National Christian Council
14.8 Certificate issued by relevant Bishop be a religious Teacher of Catholicism
or Christianity
14.9 Obtained a pass in G. C. E. (A/L) Christianity subjects
15.0 The applicants of Hinduism (4.8)/Islam (4.9) should fill the necessary particulars according to sections 4.8 and 4.9 of th e Gazette
Notification :
Name of the Course Duration V alid Date of the Certificate
16.0 The applicants of Technical Studies (4.13) should fill the necessary particulars according to the Gazette Notification.
16.1 In the application clearly indicate the applying field of the course whether the course as Design and T echnology or Crafts
and Art :––––––––.
16.2 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technical Course in a recognize Government Institute and hope to
follow the Technical Skills Course Para. 4.13.3 should fill in the following table :
Name of the Number and Date Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical Registration in conducted the completed the course
Course Government Course
17.0 Applicants for the Western Music according in terms of para. 4.19.1 and 4.19.2 in the Gazette Notification should include relevant
particulars :
Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2009
1412
18.0 Declaration of the applicant :
(i) I have forwarded only one application and two photo copies of it. I am aware that all my applications will be rejected if I
send more than one application.
(ii) I certify that the particulars given by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given by me in this application
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be discontinued if detect ed
after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
19.0 Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants :
I certify that this applicant sat G. C. E. (O/L) examination and G . C. E. (A/L) examination/Pracheena Preliminary Final examination
as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particulars given above by the applicant are correct according to my knowledge and
that the Aggregate marks/Z-Score ...................... (writing words) obtain by the applicant at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examinati on in the
year ...................... is according to the official sheets issued by the Commissioner-General of Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Name and address of School/Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
20.0 Declaration in respect of private applicants :
I certify that the aggregate marks/Z-Score obtained by me in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in the year ............ is ....... ...... (write
in words) according to the Official result sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, is ....................... .
–––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Justice of the Peace.
Name :–––––––––––,
Official Frank :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
09–458
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.