

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1008
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1008
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"018 – 2017 uehs ui 05 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'05'05
No. 2,018 –  fRiday ,  may  05, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th may, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th may, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1005-B 81167- 5,403(05/2017)
Note.–   Panasoma friendship foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a Supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of april 28, 2017. 
N. B.– Part i:ii(a) of the Gazette No. 2,017 of 28.04.2017 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1006
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1007
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1008
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
Posts – vacant
mINISTRy Of hOmE AffAIRS
Written Competitive Examination for Promotion 
to the Post of Administrative Grama Niladhari of 
the management Assistant Supra Grade on merit 
basis, under the ministry of home Affairs - 2016
foLLoWiNG amendments are made in the Gazette 
Notification for calling applications for the above 
mentioned examination published under Part i : Section 
(iia) - General in the Gazette No. 1982 dated 26.08.2016 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Notice 
No. 08-665/1.
the facts stated under Section (i) of the 05th Paragraph 
and Section (iii) of the 07th Paragraph are amended in the 
following manner. 
05. Qualifications :
 (i) The candidates who have not yet fulfilled the 
qualification of having completed the relevant 
efficiency bar examination specified as "shall 
have completed an active and satisfactory 
service period of five years in Grade I of 
Grama Niladhari Service and passed the 
prescribed efficiency bar examination", shall 
amENdmENt
SRI  LANkA  POLICE
Police Constable, Woman Police Constable and 
Police Constable Driver
aS per the General Gazette No. 2013 of 31.03.2017 
published in the Section i(iia) mentioned from the pages 
01 to 04, under the heading of the above said posts, 
closing date of the application accepted is extendended to 
31.05.2017.
 
Pujith jayasundara, 
 inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters, 
colombo 01, 
26th april, 2017.
05-362
be allowed to apply for the above examination 
only on this occasion, subject to the condition 
of passing the said efficiency bar examination. 
07. Method of application.– closing date of application 
will be extended, allowing those candidates who fulfill the 
above qualifications and yet to apply for the examination. 
 (iii) the candidates shall send their applications 
by Registered Post to reach the commissioner 
General of Examination, organization and 
foreign Examination Branch, P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo, through the divisional Secretary 
of the respective division, on or before 
02.06.2017. 
  neil de alwis, 
  Secretary, 
  ministry of Home affairs. 
ministry of Home affairs, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
april, 2017. 
05–200
CEyLON - GERmAN  TEChNICAL  
TRAINING INSTITuTE - mORATuWA 
(mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT AND 
vOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Admission for the full Time Courses under the 
National Apprenticeship Scheme - 2017
aPPLicatioNS are invited from male and female 
candidates who hold following minimum Qualifications 
for the admission of year 2017. 
01.   (a)   Age.– Between 16 - 22 years as at 31.03.2017.
 (b)  education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the G. 
c. E. (o/L) Examination including Sinhala/
tamil language (medium of instruction) and 
mathematics in one sitting. 
Applicants who have special skills.– candidates who 
have placed among first three places in a Provincial level 
competition or obtain a certificate of merit or above by a 
National competition of Sri Lanka inventors commission 
in Electrical/Electronic/Mechanical fields and candidates 
who have completed the above Section (b) qualifications 
with not less than two attempts are also qualified to sit for 
the examination. 
Note.– candidates following full time courses at 
National apprentice and industrial training authority 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1009
(Naita) and bonded for period of 03 years or more are 
not eligible to apply for these full time courses. 
02. Course Medium.– all courses are conducted in 
Sinhala medium. only automobile course will conduct 
in tamil medium too. opportunity will be provided to 
follow other courses to the tamil medium students, who 
have ability in Sinhala language. London G. c. E. ordinary 
Level qualification holders will be allowed to follow 
courses in Sinhala/tamil medium. 
03. entrance examination. – applicants who possess 
the requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit 
for the admission test provided examination fees referred 
to in column 4 below have been paid. 
 (a)  Medium.– Sinhala/t amil. 
 (b)  examination Centers.– a written examination 
for admission will be conducted at the centers in 
colombo, Kandy, Galle, Badulla, anuradhapura 
and Vavuniya as indicated in the application. 
  Kindly note that if an adequate Number of candidates 
are not available at particular centers then the 
management reserve the right to change the centers 
by accommodating such applications according to 
the preference of the candidate.
examination Subjects.– the examination will consist 
of two question papers based on mathematics, General 
knowledge, intelligence test, technical knowledge, 
English knowledge and technical drawing. 
04. examination Fees.– applicants should pay Rupees 
five Hundred only (Rs. 500/-) as examination fees. Paying 
voucher of the Bank should be attached to the application. 
the application should be forwarded together with the 
paying voucher of the Bank. 
Payment.– the payment can be made to any Bank 
of ceylon Branch to the accountant, ceylon German 
technical training institute which credit to account 
Number 681490 maintained at moratuwa Branch. Paying 
vouchers that defaced or erased will not be accepted. 
application which does not contain a credit voucher to 
the value will be rejected. Examination fees will not be 
refunded to candidates those who are not appearing for the 
examination or on rejection of their applications for any 
other reason. 
05. Primary Selection.– Primary selection of candidates 
for admission will be merit based on the written examination 
and those who obtain the required highest marks will be 
called for interview for the final selection. Cutoff marks 
for less privileged provinces would be decided by the 
management of cGtti. (Less privileged provinces are 
decided according to Sri Lanka Examination department). 
06. Final Selection.– those who obtained highest marks 
from aptitude test and interview would be considered for 
final selection. 40% marks are allocated for aptitude test 
and 60% for the interview. Extra Curricular activities are 
specially considered. 
the selected candidates will have to go through a 
medical examination and those who fail the medical test 
will be discontinued. 
07. Training Courses :
automobile  - 04 years
millwright/fitter - 04 years
Power Electrical - 03 1/2 years
air-conditioning and Refrigeration - 03 1/2 years 
tool machinery - 03 1/2 years 
mechatronic technology (industrial) - 03 1/2 years
auto air conditioning - 03 years 
auto Electrical - 03 years
diesel mechanic - 03 years 
Welding - 03 years
motor Vehicle Body - 03 years
 Repairer and Painter 
Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the above 
mentioned courses of training depending on the aptitude 
they show in the trade selection test conducted after first 
year of basic training. 
08. Bond to be signed.– all selected candidates are 
required to enter in to a bond to under go full time training 
at cGtti for periods ranging from 04, 03 1/2, 03 years 
in their allocated trades and enter in to agreement with 
the National apprentice and industrial training authority 
(Naita) as per their requirements. 
in addition they have to serve Sri Lanka transport 
Board for two years after successful completion of their 
training if necessary. 
09. Applications.– the application should be prepared 
as per the specimen form given below (a4 size) and photo 
copies of the following certificates should also be attached 
with the application :
 (a) Birth Certificate ;
 (b) Educational Certificates ;
 (c) applicants who apply under special skills should 
forward the certificate of Provincial/National 
level competition issued by Sri Lanka inventors 
commission. 
the envelope in which application is enclosed should 
be marked, "Recruitment of Apprentice - 2017" on the top 
left hand corner. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1010
Obtaining Application Form :
 * By down-loading via the institute's web site (www.cgtti.lk)
 * By visiting to the institute.
 * By sending a self address envelope with stamp to the institute.
10.  Closing date of applications.– applications should be sent to the manager - administration and Human 
Resources ceylon German technical training institute, No. 582, Galle Road, mount Lavinia, by Registered Post on or 
before 20th June, 2017. 
11. Admission Cards.– Admission cards for the examination will be sent to all qualified candidates on around 
10th august, 2017. if any candidate does not receive the admission card, contact over the telephone Number given below 
within 14 days from the date. 
 manager, 
 administration and Human Resources. 
ceylon German technical training institute, 
No. 582, Galle Road, 
mount Lavinia (angulana Junction), 
telephone No. : 0112605625.
aPPLicatioN foR admiSSioN to fuLL-timE couRSES - 2017
(uNdER tHE NatioNaL aPPRENticESHiP – ScHEmE)
Ceylon german teChniCal training institute - moratuwa
For Office Q DQ Index Interview Training
use only   No. No. No.
* Use Block Capitals when filling the form in English.
* use (P) to complete 03 (d) and 06 (a, b).
01.  (a) full Name :
   (Sinhala)      
  (b) full Name :
   (English) 
  (c)  Name with initials : 
   (English)
02.  (a) Postal address :
   (Sinhala)
  (b) Postal address :
   (English)
  (c) district : (d) divisional  (e) Province :
      Secretariat :
  (f) E-mail address : (g) Phone Number : mobile
      Residence

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1011
03.  (a) date of Birth :  (b) age as at 31.03.2017 :   
        years       months days
  (c) Nic No. :  (d) Sex (*) :   female            male
04. Educational Qualifications  G. C. E. (O/L) :    Second sitting (only for special skills applicants) :
  index No.  year index No.  year
  Subject Grade  Subject Grade 
 
05. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (Provincial/National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors 
commission, if the candidate is applying under the special skills category  : 
  y ear : field :
06. (a) medium in which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test (*) :  Sinhala t amil
 (b) center at which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test (*) :
  colombo Kandy Galle Badulla  anuradhapura  Vavuniya
07. (a) Bank where the Examination fees were paid to    (b) date :
08. i hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate, if any particulars contained here are 
found to be false or incorrect, liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after selection. 
 
 Signature.          date
For Office use only
 (a) attached a copy of the bank receipt yes No
 (b) Attached copies of Educational Certificates Yes No
 (c) Attached a copy of the Birth Certificate Yes No
 (d) Attached certificate of special skills mentioned Yes No Not Relevant
  under (05)
 (e) age limit - 16 oK 22+

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1012
 (f) Qualified to sit the admission test  Yes No
 (g) checked by
 
05–01
––––––––––––––––––––––––
INSTITuTE  Of  TEChNOLOGy
uNIvERSITy  Of mORATuWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology 
Course 2017/2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible candidates for 
admission to the National diploma in technology, 3-year 
fulltime course conducted by the institute of technology, 
university of moratuwa. the course will be conducted 
in the new premises of the Institute of Technology, 
university of moratuwa at Diyagama, homagama.
1. General.– the National diploma in technology 
course consists of two years of academic study and one 
year of industrial training and is conducted in English 
medium. The course is offered in the following fields of 
study : 
 (a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I) :
   (i) marine Engineering technology.
   (ii) Nautical Studies and technology.
 (b) Other Fields of Courses (Set ii) :
 (i) chemical Engineering technology.
 (ii) civil Engineering technology.
 (iii) Electrical Engineering technology.
 (iv) Electronic and telecommunication 
Engineering technology.
 (v) mechanical Engineering technology.
 (vi) Polymer technology.
 (vii) t extile and clothing technology.
2. eligibility : 
 
   2.1  Age : 
 (a) applicants should be below 24 years of age on 
31.12.2016.
 (b) applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2016 
will be given preference for admission to the 
marine Engineering technology and Nautical 
Studies and technology courses. a special 
medical test and interview would also be 
conducted for selection of students to marine 
Engineering and Nautical Studies courses. 
 (c) those who are fulltime registered students 
of any university under the uGc (except 
the open university of Sri Lanka) or Higher 
Educational institute under the ministry of 
Higher Education are not eligible to apply. 
2.2 Educational Qualifications : 
applicants should have obtained passes in any three 
(03) of the following subjects :–
 (i) Physics,
 (ii) chemistry,
 (iii) combined mathematics,
 (iv) advanced mathematics.
at one and the same sitting of a G. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka in 2014 or 2015 or 2016.
3. Selection Criteria : 
 3.1 Admission to the Course : 
  the selection of students for admission will 
be based on the performance at G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination and the aptitude test to be conducted 
by the institute of technology, university of 
moratuwa. 
  from those who pass the aptitude test, selections 
will be done in the merit order of G.c.E. (a/L) 
results, i.e. in the order of z-scores. in the 
selection, 40% merit and 60% district quota will 
be applied.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1013
 3.2  Field of Study :
  aptitude test marks together with the applicant’s 
order of preference for the field of study as 
indicated in the field preference will be considered 
in the allocation of the field of study.
4. Application Procedure :
 4.1  Application Form :
 (i) application should be made according to 
the Specimen form given in this Gazette 
Notification. Specimen application will also 
be available in the following Web address.
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
 (ii) applications should be forwarded under 
Registered Post marked “NDT Admission                 
2017/2018” on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope and addressed to the 
“deputy Registrar, institute of technology, 
university of moratuwa, Katubedda, 
moratuwa.
 (iii) application should reach the deputy 
Registrar, institute of technology, 
university of moratuwa on or before the 
closing date for applications.
 (iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope                      
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along 
with the application form.
 (v) No copies or originals of the certificates 
should be sent along with the application 
form. However, the content of the 
application has to be certified as indicated. 
(See cages 3 & 5 in the form of application.)
 4.2  Field Preference :
 (i) there are  two SETS of fields.
 (ii) applicants may apply to either Maritime 
Studies (SEt 1) or Other Fields (SEt 2) or 
Both sets of fields. The preference must be 
indicated if candidate applies to both sets of 
fields.
 (iii) SEt 1 - insert order of preference as 1 
for first preference and 2 for Second 
preference. this should be completed only 
by the candidates who are applying for 
Maritime Studies.
 (iv) SEt 2 - insert order of preference as 
1,2,3,4,5,6,7 “1” for the “most preferred”, 
“2” for the next, and so on “7” for the least 
preferred. 
5.  (i)  Application Fee.– a receipt of payment in favour 
of “Institute of Technology, university of 
moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of bank of 
Ceylon, katubedda branch” to the value of Rs. 
400 (Rupees four Hundred) application fee for 
set i or set ii and Rs. 600 (Rupees Six Hundred) 
application fee for set i and set ii, obtained only 
from any branch of the bank of Ceylon should 
accompany each application. this application 
fee is non-refundable.
 (ii)  Closing Date.– the closing date of applications 
is 05.06.2017.
6. Aptitude Test.– applicants, short-listed according to 
the G. c. E. (a./L.) performance in merit and district Quota 
will be called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at 
the institute of technology, university of moratuwa.
7. Registration :
 (i) candidates selected for admission will be 
required to produce the originals of the following 
certificates on the date of registration :–
 * G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
 * Certificate indicati ng G. c. E. (a./L.) 
Z-Score,
 * School Leaving Certificate,
 * Birth Certificate,
 * Affidavit in support of any changes in 
name appearing in different documents/
certificates.
8. Very Important :
 (i) A candidate once registered for the National 
Diploma in Technology Course will not be 
eligible for admission to any other course in 
this university or in any other university in Sri 
Lanka (except Open university of Sri Lanka) 
or in any other higher Educational Institute 
under the ministry of higher Education during 
the tenure of the course.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1014
 (ii) a  student who has already registered in this university or any other university in Sri Lanka (except open 
university of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational institute is not be eligible for applying. 
 director.
 institute of technology,
 university of moratuwa.
 
 aPPLicatioN  foR  admiSSioN  to  tHE  NatioNaL  diPLoma    For office use only
 iN  tEcHNoLoGy  couRSE 
  application No.
 
institute of teChnology university of moratuwa 
  district
 aCademiC year - 2017/2018 
application for (Please     )
  1. maritime fields  - SEt 1 
  2. other fields - SEt 2
   [applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
1.   Personal details :    (Please use bLOCk CAPITALS)
  Name in full :
  
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
  Name with initials :
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
 Title mr./ms.  Sex male/female
  
 age (years)    (months) date of Birth date month y ear
 as at 31st dec. 2016    
 National id Number
 2. contact details :
  a ddress (Residence):
      (Leave one blank cage between different segments of the address) 
  t elephone :  mobile
  E-mail (if available) :
 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1015
 3. Results of G. c. E. (advanced Level) Examination :
 Subjects & Details of examination Grades & Details obtained at the 
  1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
  y ear
  Physics
  chemistry
  combined mathematics
  advanced mathematics
  index Number
  Z-Score          .      .                     .  
  Results of the year to be considered for Selection
  (indicate whether 2014 or 2015 or 2016)
 4. medium :
  medium in which you wish to sit the aptitude test  
      
 5. School(s) attended from year 11 to year 13 :
 Year Name &  Address of School District    Period of Attendance      
       From    To
    Year M D Year M D
 11
 12
 13 1st attempt
    2nd attempt
     3rd attempt
 6. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
  It is compulsory to certify the results under No. 3 and details under No. 5 in the application by the School 
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice of Peace for External Candidates.
  i certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in the cage No.3 and No. 5 are true and accurate 
according to the original certificates.
  Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace :
         Rev./dr./mr./mrs. ................................................................
  
  Official Seal
 ...................................... .....................
 Signature date
 7. field Preference :
SEt 1 - insert order of preference as 1 for first preference and 2 for Second preference. this should be completed 
only by the candidates who have applied for maritime Studies.
SEt 2 - insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for the “most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘7’ 
for the last preferred.


<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1016
 Set 1 Set 2
 Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
 marine Engineering  technology chemical Engineering technology
 Nautical Studies and technology civil Engineering  technology  
  Electrical Engineering technology 
  Electronic and telecommunication     
 State Priority, if applied for both sets –   Engineering technology
  SEt  1 mechanical Engineering technology 
  SEt  2 Polymer technology
  
  textile & clothing technology
  are you registered as a fulltime student in any other university under the uGc (other than open  y es No
  university) or any other Higher Educational institution under the ministry of Education ? 
  (delete whatever is inapplicable)
  APPLiCANT’S  DeCLARATiON :
 1. i declare that i am not a fulltime registered student at any university (except open university of Sri Lanka) or 
any Higher Educational institution under the ministry of Education.
 2. i certify that all the particulars given by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that if the 
particulars given by me in this application are found to be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, i will be 
discontinued from the course.
 3. in the event of my being selected for admission after the test, i shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations 
and the Rules of the institute of technology, university of moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
 4. i have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt obtained from Bank of ceylon, drawn in favour of “institute 
of technology, university of moratuwa - account No. 0000308280 of Bank of ceylon, Katubadde Branch”.
 5. I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope (Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".
 6. i am aware that if i am found to be registered in another university or any other Higher Educational institution 
under the ministry of Higher Education at the time of sitting for the aptitude test for the National diploma in 
technology course, i will not be selected for the course.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––.
Paste your cash deposit/cash transfer original Slip here.
05–192

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1017
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the 
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2017
1018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 mAy  05.05.2017 friday — 21.04.2017 friday 12 noon
  12.05.2017 friday –– 28.04.2017 friday 12 noon
  19.05.2017 friday –– 05.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  26.05.2017 friday –– 12.05.2017 friday 12 noon
 JuNE 02.06.2017 friday — 19.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  09.06.2017 friday –– 26.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  16.06.2017 friday –– 02.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  23.06.2017 friday –– 09.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  30.06.2017 friday –– 16.06.2017 friday 12 noon
 JuL y 07.07.2017 friday — 23.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  14.07.2017 friday –– 30.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  21.07.2017 friday –– 07.07.2017 friday 12 noon
  28.07.2017 friday –– 14.07.2017 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2017.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.