

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'10'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2017
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G26442 – 21 (2017/10)
My No.: IR/10/25/2012.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom the Industrial Dispute which has arisen between Mr. A. P . K.
Weeraratne, Kudagama, Dombemada of the one part and National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Head Office, Galle Road,
Ratmalana of the other part was referred by order dated 05.04.2016 made under section 4(1) of the Industrial Dispute Act,
Chapter 131 (as amended) and published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Extraordinary No.
1961/30 dated 07.04.2016 for Settlement by Arbitration is hereby published in terms of section 18(1) of the said Act.
A. WIMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th October, 2017.
Ref. No.: IR/10/25/2012.
IN  THE  MATTER  OF  AN  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTE
Between,
Mr. A. P. K. Weeraratne,
Kudagama,
Dombemada.
Party of the First part,
Case No. A3643
and
National Water Supply and Drainage Board,
Head Office,
Galle Road,
Ratmalana,
Party of the Second part.
wxl 2041$22 – 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ 19 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2017'10'19
No. 2041/22 – THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2017
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'10'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2017
AWARD
The Honourable Welantantirige Don John Seneviratne Minister of labour and Trade Union Relations, do by his virtue of the
powers vested in him by Section 4 (1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legistative Enactment of Ceylon (1956
Revised Edition), as amended by Acts, No. 14 of 1957, 4 of 1962 and 39 of 1968 (read with Industrial Disputes – Special
Provisions) Act, No. 37 of 1968 hereby appointed me as the Arbitrator by his order dated 05th April 2016 and referred the
dispute between the aforesaid parties for settlement by Arbitration.
The statement of the matter in dispute between the above said parties is as follows:
Whether Mr. A. P . K. Weeraratne who had served the National Water Supply and Drainage Board, as a clerk has been
caused injustice by,
1. not receiving the promotions, salary increments or gratuity in accordance with the permanent appointment letter
dated 29.08.2001 and casual (temporary) appointment letter dated 10.08.2000 as well as the recruitment and promotion
procedures,
2. being deprived of the salaries from 11.07.2007 to 10.11.2010 by letter of re-instatement dated 08.11.2010 and all the
other entitlements for that period and,
3. issuing the order of vacation of post dated 08.10.2007 even though he had informed the Board of his sickness and
forwarded Medical Certificates, and if so, to what reliefs he is entitled.
Both parties stated above submitted a detailed statement dated 26th May 2016 that has led to the dispute in terms of the
Regulations 21 (1) and 21 (2) under the Industrial disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950, and on the said date (26.05.2016) the party of the
Second Part namely, National Water Supply and Drainage Board was charged to commence proceedings and as such their first
witness Ratnasiri Manikgama Arachige – the Senior Human Resource Officer recorded his evidence in chief on 14.10.2016 and
while that said proceedings were in progress it transpired in evidence on dated 28.02.2017 that the services of the party of the
First Part namely Weeraratne had been terminated, well prior in time to the said reference of the Industrial Dispute, and by
application dated 18.01.2013 in the Labour Tribunal Colombo in Case No. 2/ADDL/3615/2013 still remained.
Pending for adjudication. Remedies claimed thereto were re-instatment from date of termination dated 15.02.2012,
increments with backwages or compensation in lieu of Re-instatement to the tune of Repees 10 Million.
Whereas the party of the First Part demanded reliefs from Arbitration Tribunal such as due promotion, salary increments,
backwages from 29.08.2001 the date on which he was made permanent as a clerk. It is pertinent to note here that the party of the
Second Part in their 1st statement annexed document marked X15 and at the inquiry as R22 dated 08.11.2010 where in para 3,
the reinstatement was subject to the following condition, ‘‘that you are not entitled to any backwages and any other benefits
or entitlement acrued thereto.’’
on the other hand, it is crystal clear that Weeraratne the workman again was charge sheeted, found guilty and by letter dated
22nd October 2012 he was terminated with effect from dated 15th February 2012.
In Labour Tribunal he claimed Re-instatement with effect from 15th February 2012 to the date of award with backwages
and increments and/or in lieu of re-instatement compensation to the tune of Rupees 10 Million.
With this background if one proceeds to scrutinize the statements, marked documents and the part-heard evidence of
the witness, one could readily ascertain the Remedies/reliefs claimed by the party of the First Part is some what identical or
similar.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'10'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2017
3A
Be that as it may, the question is, whether there is a life dispute. According to Sundaralingham V State Bank of India
1971, 73NLR, 514........... Supreme Court held ‘‘when a person ceases to be in employment that cannot be a life dispute between
the parties, which can ever culminate in on award affecting the terms of employment.’’
It is settled law that an Arbitrator has the jurisdiction to determine whether a valid Industrial dispute has been legally referred
to him.
In the case of Ceylon Bank Employees Union V Yatawara 64 N. L. R. 49 at page 56/57 it was held that a tribunal of Special
Jurisdiction created by statute can only act, if the terms contained in the statute giving it Jurisdiction are complied with. If they
are not complied with that Jurisdiction does not arise. In the circumstances whether there is a life dispute is questionable
because the employee Weeraratne is again out of employment.
As such there is no life dispute. According to case law and principles of law he is bereft of any remedy and should
necessarily fail.
When considering the facts and the circumstances of, the Industrial Disputes and according to Section 31B (2) (b) of
the Industrial Disputes Act stipulates ‘‘where it is so satisfied that such matter constitutes, or forms part of, an Industrial
Dispute referred by Minister under Section 4 for settlement by Arbitration to an Arbitrator or for settlement to an Industrial
Court, make order dismissing the application without prejudice to the right of the parties in the Industrial Disputes.’’ Section
31B (3) where and application (1) relates.
(a) to any matter which, in the opinion of the Tribunal, is similar to or identical with a matter constituting or
included in an Industrial Dispute to which the employer to whom that application relates is a party and into
which an inquiry under this Act is held,  or
(b) to any matter, the facts affecting which are, in the opinion of the tribunal, facts affecting any proceedings
under any law,
The tribunal shall make order, order suspending its proceedings upon that application until the conclusion of
the said inquiry or the said proceedings under any other law, and upon such conclusion the tribunal shall
resume that proceedings upon that application and shall in making an order upon that application, have
regard to the award or decision in the said inquiry or the said proceedings under any other law.
IN fact the Labour Tribunal has not adhered this procedure. This may be overlooked for the that Labour Tribunal
function now are of a judicial nature and the President thereof are Judicial Officers. And as such in the present scenario
precedence must be given to them over Arbitration Tribunals.
Thus it dawned on me in the interest of fair play and justice as the party of the First part, admitted that his evidence is
being led and recorded and the matter is still pending.
While, the party of Second Part is progressings with their evidence in chief. Thus concurrently the parties lead
evidence in two forums which is an unhealthy state of affairs.
In the premises considering the fact and circumstance I thought it fit to terminate the Arbitration proceedings and I
make order that after the conclusion of Labour Tribunal case, the workman be bestowed with the right to his statutory claims,
if any.
I make order that there is no Award, however subject to his right to claim statutory dues if any.
Accordingly, I consider this Award is just and equitable in the circumstances.
Colombo, T. Edmund Santharajan
Dated 11th July 2017. Arbitrator
11- 191

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'10'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2017
My No.: IR/22/48/2011.
  IR/22/24/2012.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
The award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom the Industrial Dispute which has arisen between Mr. E. Hettiarachchi,
No. 329, Alagalla Terrace, Kadugannawa, Mr. R.M. Dhanapala, No. 466/A, Ududeniya Road, Meeruppa, Marassana, Mr. M. R.
R. M. S. Peiris, No. 554, Wewala, Church Road, Weligampitiya, Ja- Ela of the one part and Sri Lanka Transport Board, No. 200,
Kirula Road, Colombo 05 of the other part was referred by order dated 12/03/2015 made under Section 4(1) of the Industrial
Dispute Act, Chapter 131 (as amended) and published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Extraordinary No. 1907/13 dated 23.03.2015 for Settlement by Arbitration is hereby published in terms of Section 18(1) of the
said Act.
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th October, 2017.
IN  THE  MATTER  OF  AN  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTE
Between,
1. E. Hettiarachchi, No. 329, Alagalla
Terrace, Kadugannawa.
2. R. M. Dhanapala, No. 466/A, Ududeniya
Road, Meeruppa, Marassana.
3. M. R. R. M. S. Peiris, No. 554, Wewala,
Church Road, Weligampitiya, Ja-Ela.
Party of the First part,
Case No. A/3589
and
Sri Lanka Transport Board, No. 200, Kirula
Road, Colombo 05.
Party of the Second part.
AWARD
The Hon. Minister of Justice and Labour Relations Wijeyadasa Rajapaksha by the powers vested in him by Section 4 (1) of the
Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legistative Enactment of Ceylon (1956 Revised Edition), as amended by Acts,
No. 14 of 1957, 4 of 1962 and 39 of 1968 (read with Industrial Disputes – Special Provisions) Act, No. 37 of 1968 appointed me
as the Arbitrator by his order dated 12.03.2015 and referred the aforesaid dispute to me for settlement by Arbitration.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'10'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2017
5A
The statement of the matter in dispute between the abovesaid parties is as follows:
"Whether the cut down of salaries earned by Mr . E. Hettiarachchi as the Managing Director of the Rajarata Bus
Company Limited, Mr . R. M. Dhanapala as the Finanace Director of the Rajarata Bus Company Limited and Mr. M. R. R. M.
S. Peiris as the Director Engineering of the Gampaha Bus Company Limited, by the Employer, Sri Lanka Transport Board
after, they had been removed from these posts by the Secretary to the Treasury is just, and if not so, to what reliefs each of
therein is entitled".
Appearances:
Mr. G . W. Gratian De Silva Representative represented the party of the 1st Part.
Mr. Ranjith Ranawaka Attorney-At-Law with Shanika Gallage the Legal Officer appear for the Party of the Second
Part.
After both parties mentioned above have submitted their respective statements that has led to the disputes in terms of
Regulations 21 (1) and (2) of the Industrial Disputes Regulations, 1958. I made every endeavour to explore a possibility of an
amicable settlement which proved in futility.
In the circumstances I charged the party of the 1st Part to commence adducing the evidence of all employees of the
party of the First Part namely E. Hettiarachchi, R. M. Dhanapala and M. R. R. M. S. Peiris having concluded their evidence a new
witness N. S. K. Perera (Director Engineering) was also led. The party of the Second Part refrained from leading any evidence.
The main contention as the Preliminary objection of the party of the 2nd Part is adverted in their written submission is
detailed hereunder:-
44B(1) – Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written law:-
(c) a suit for the recovery of any sum due under this Act from any employer to any workman shall be maintainable
if it is instituted within two years (02) after that sum has become due;
44B (2) – For the purposes of this Section "sum of money" includes, where any benefit is due under this Act from an
employer and where such benefit is capable of being computed in terms of money, such amount as may be determined by the
Court in which the action for the recovery of the value of such benefit is brought.
The Three employees who are parties to this Arbitration were reffered in 2015 March. Their directorship were removed
by the Secretary to the Treasury, in year 2004 in the months of June and July. From the day of removal from the director post
or from the date of their salaries were reduced they should have instituted action immediately or within two years after the sums
became due if it is entitled. They have completely failed to comply the requirements stated in Section 44B (1) (c).
It is evident that they have taken more than 10 years to take legal action against the employer. During the inquiry all
three employees confirmed that they have not taken any legal steps against the employer on this matter, except for complaining
to the ombudsman.
Labour Commissioner and/ or Labour Minister have not considered the time factor when directing this matter to the
Industrial Court. Thus, their direction to the Arbitration is null and void.
The second legal objection is the direction made by the Minister to determine ''whether the cut down of salaries
earned by Mr. E. Hettiarachchi as the Managing Director of the Rajarata Bus Company Limited, Mr. R. M. Dhanapala as the
Finance Director of the Rajarata Bus Company Limited, and Mr. M. R. R. M. S. Peiris as the Director Engineering of the
Gampaha Bus Company Limited, by the Employer, Sri Lanka Transport Board after had  been removed from those posts by
the Secretary to the Treasury is just, and if not so, what reliefs each of them entitled".

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'10'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2017
The Hon, Minister has considered the salaries paid to the Directors as earned salaries. This is a misdirection of facts
and bad in law.
Employees are paid salaries as per their service contract. End of the year they are entitled for the salary increments due
under the contract. That is the earned salary of an employee.
In this Arbitration, employees were appointed as Directors by Secretary to the Treasury. Their appointments are
outside the service contracts. With the appointments as Directors, salaries were increased as recongnition of the post. During
the period of Directors the employees were granted their annual salary increments as per their respective grades. That portion
of the salary is the earned salary as per the service contract.
Nature of the Director post is not a permanent post. paragraph 116 of the Article of Association has stated very clearly
the right of the Treasury Secertary to remove the post for any reason. Employees were well aware of this situatation. Under
these circumstances claiming the Director's allowance after removal from the post is illegal, baseless and without any valid
rational.
In the case, PREMADAS  AND  OTHERS  VS. SABARAGAMUWA  DEVELOPEMENT  BANK  AND  OTHERS - 1SLR
2005 Page 161 it was decided that, (MARKED AS X3)
(The petitioners complained of infringement of Article 12 (1)  of the Constitution.)
Held:
Increments of salary is not a right and had to be earned. As such the decision to recover the monies paid to the
Petitioners after 1.1.2002 was invalidly paid.
There was no violation of the petitioner's fundamental rights under Article 12 (1) of the constitution.
In this Arbitration matter Petitioner’s claim was that their earned salary cannot be deducted. The fundermental question
is whether the increments what they were offered could be catergorized as an earned salaries. The increases were made due to
holding the director posts and with the withdrawal of the post the increments were withdrawn. It is manifestly clear that the
allowance added to the salary is not a part of earned salary.
The Ratio Decidendi of the said case is ‘‘increments of salary is not a right and had to be earned’’. The allowance added
to the salary is not an earned increment within the service contract.
For the reasons aforesaid I respectfully urge to dismiss this Arbitration in limine.
A review of the written submission of both parties as well as the evaluation of the evidence reveals that the primary
issue is whether there is a valid reference to me in the first instance.
The provision mentioned above namely Section 44B (1) (C) and Section 44B(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, No: 43 of
1950 (as amended) is invoked in response to the statements of dispute in terms of Section 16 of the Industrial Disputes Act
‘‘ ..... every order under Section 4(1) referring such dispute to an Arbitrator for settlement by Arbitration SHALL BE
ACCOMPANIED by a statement prepared by the Commissioner setting out each matter to HIS  KNOWLEDGE is in dispute
between the parties’’.
The three employees who are parties to this Arbitration were referred in 2015 March. Their directorships were removed
by the Secretary to the Treasury, in year 2004 in months of June and July from the day of removal from Director post or from the
date of their salaries were reduced they should have instituted action immediately or within TWO YEARS after sums became
due if it is to be enforced. They have completely failed to comply the requirement stated in Section 44B (1) (C).

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'10'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.10.2017
7A
It is evident that they have taken 10 years to take legal action against the employer. During the inquiry all three
employees have confirmed that they have not taken any legal steps against employer on this matter, excepts for complaining
to the Ombudsman which was of no avail.
Labour Commissioner and / or Labour Minister have not considered that TIME FACTOR which is the only prescriptive
period enshrined in the said Act. The failure of the Commissioner to address this to his mind is detrimental to the said reference.
The ignorance or otherwise of one cannot stand in the way of just and equity. The maxim that 'delay defeats equity ' comes into
operation in this instant case. And another maxim," He who  is earlier in point of time is more powerful at law" , also stand in
good stead for this purpose.
Therefore their reference and direction to the Arbitrator is NULL AND VOID as held in Upali Newspaper Limited Vs
Eksath Kamkaru Samithiya 1999 2SLR 205, in this case Court of Appeal held that the Minister of Labour does not have
unlimited powers to refer dispute under Section 4 (1) of Industrial Disputes Act and Court quash reference if bad in law.
It is settled law that an Arbitrator has the jurisdiction to determine whether a valid Industrial Dispute has been legally
referred to him. In the case of Ceylon Bank Employees Union Vs Yatawara 64 NLR 49 at page 56/57 it was held a Tribunal of
Special Jurisdiction created by statute can only act, if terms contained in the statute giving it jurisdiction are complied with if
they are not complied with the jurisdiction does not arise.
Recently the Supreme Court had an occasion to refer section 44B of Industrial Disputes Act in RANAWEERA V .
MAHAWELI  AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA Saleem Marsoof J reported in 2004 (BLR) page 8 at 10, ‘‘ In fact, it is essentially
from Sections 43A(3) and 44B of the Industrial Disputes Act that the responsibility of recovering any money due to a workman
from an employer is cast on the COMMISSIONER OF LABOUR. Therefore it is imperative rule that the Commissioner the final
authority as to enforcement of Order/ Award farely and squarely falls on him and as such he must exercise his obligation
diligently in the interest of the State and its stakeholders particularly and to the general public and Industrial peace in general.
So much so, it is unnecessary to go into the merits of the case as an Award given on an invalid reference is invalid from ab intio.
Therefore the reference referred to me by the said Minister under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act is contrary
to Section 44B(1) (C) and is incapable of proving as earned salaries of the Directors and that the direction to me is misdirection
cannot be enforced in law. In passing in a similar scenario the Court of Appeal Case No: CA/456/98/F and CA/608/ (F) had
decided that removal from the Director Post is lawful and not entitle to any compensation and as such employees are not
legally entitled for any benefit after removal.
If should be noted and appreciated that the Counsel for the party of the 2nd
 Part whose written submission stands to
reason and analyzed legal principles cogently and succinctly.
IN the circumstance I make NO AW ARD.
Accordingly, I consider this Award is just and equitable in the circumstances.
At Colombo, T. E DMUND SANTHARAJAN
07th September, 2017. Arbitrator.
11 - 192
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA