

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 234]
————————
Presented by Hon. Nalin Bandara Jayamaha, M.P. for  Kurunegala District
on 21st of February, 2018
(Published in the Gazette on January 08, 2018)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed.
————————
A
BILL
2-2d
POTHUWATAWANA MAHA VIHARAYA
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

<!-- page 2 -->

Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 010645—510 (12/2018)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE POTHUWATAWANA MAHA VIHARAYA
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the
“Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation” has heretofore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application for the public advantage:
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Pothuwatawana Maha
Viharaya Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2018.
2. (1) From and after  date of commencement of this Act, such
and so may persons as now are members of the Pothuwatawana
Maha Viharaya Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or  shall  hereinafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation”  (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”)  and by that name may sue
and be sued, with full power and authority to have and  use a
common seal and  to alter  the same at its pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a charitable
organization.
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Pothuwatawana
Maha
Viharaya.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to provide assistance to improve dhamma education,
knowledge, attitudes, skills of Buddhists and their
children by initiation, continuation and promotion
of training courses on Theravada Buddhism;
(b) to take action to strengthen reconciliation among
each other by creation of friendship, goodwill, peace,
understanding and co-operation among ethnic and
religious groups since this is an area with multi ethnic
and multi religious co-existence;
(c) to take action to give priority to activities such as
attracting attendance of local and foreign scholars
and devotees as well as followers with a view to further
promoting Buddhist doctrine and culture by
conducting Buddhist sermons, conferences,
discussions and other pertinent programmes and
facilitating them etc., since this is a Buddhist temple
fully facilitated and situated at a quiet lication in
close proximity to the main airport;
(d) to establish a just society through organizing,
directing and practicing the sil campaign, meditation
programmes, and Bodhi Poojas;
(e) to take necessary action to eradicate any potential
threats to the Buddhism and the nation;
(f) to train local and foreign missionaries from among
both laymen and clergymen; and
(g) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidential or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any cinflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Minister or Department of the
Government or any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board” consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2)  (a) The Board of Directors of the foundation that holds
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the Corporation until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisors, except the chief incumbent of the
Viharaya, shall be appointed or elected for a period of three
years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor shall be
eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse of the
said period of three years.
Management
of the Affairs
of the
Corporation.
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the Central
Government
or Province.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpaired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
6. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other written
law, the Corporation shall have power to do, perform and
execute all such acts and matters as necessary or desirable
for the promotion or any one of them, including the power -
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the  Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation.
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, and close accounts in any
Banks;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board may determine;
30
Power of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(f ) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation; and
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:-
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointments powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Board or any
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
(e) the qualification and disqualification to be a
members of the Board and the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its’ objects and
dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) The rules, made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for an
account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or
more Banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
20
Accounts and
Auditing.
25
Fund of the
Corporation.
Register of
members.

<!-- page 8 -->

Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited  by
a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms of
Article 154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited  statement of accounts to
the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary
Social Services Organization (Registration and Supervision)
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of
the year succeeding the year to which such report relates;
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and
local moneys received by the Corporation during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
5
10
15
20
25
30
Annual
Report.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
12. All debts and liabilities of the Academy existing on
the day  preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Academy on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
14. The moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the
Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the  Board  who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness;
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Application
of money
and property.

<!-- page 10 -->

Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
9
similar to those of the Corporation, and which is  by the
rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members;
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic of anybody politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Pothuwatawana Maha Viharaya Foundation
(Incorporation)
Department of Government Printing