

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2083
2083
wxl 1"937 - 2015 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'10'16
No. 1,937 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2086
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2091
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th November, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd
October,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”.
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2084
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2085
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2086
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th of November,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
23rd September, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
of Slave Island Division General, District Secretariat,  Colombo 05.
10–716
–––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Department of Official Languages
RECRUITMENT (ON LIMITED BASIS) TO THE POSTS  OF SUPERINTENDENT OF TRANSLA TIONS
(SINHALA/ENGLISH), (TAMIL/ENGLISH) AND  (SINHALA/TAMIL) - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Department of Official Languages from the qualified Sri Lankan citizens for the following posts  :
01. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English) - 1 post
02. Superintendent of Translations (Tamil/English) - 1 post
03. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/Tamil) - 1 post
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2087
02. Selection will be made on the results of a structured interview
conducted by a Board of Interview approved by the Public Service
Commission.
03. Monthly Salary Scale. – Rs. 20,030 - 365x11 - 500 x18 -
Rs. 33,045.
04. This post is permanent and pensionable.
05. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are applicable
for the recruitment to the posts of Superintendent of Translations
(Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil).
5.1 Educational Qualifications :
Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English) :
A Degree with Sinhala Language as a subject from a
university recognized by the University Grants
Commission ;
or
A Degree in Translation from a university recognized
by the University Grants Commission ;
and
A  Distinction Pass for English Language at the
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination or an Ordinary
Pass for English Language at the G. C. E. (Advanced
Level) Examination.
Superintendent of Translations (Tamil/English)  :
A Degree with Tamil Language as a subject from a
university recognized by the University Grants
Commission ;
or
A Degree in Translation from a university recognized
by the University Grants Commission ;
and
A Distinction Pass for English Language at the G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Examination or an Ordinary Pass for
English Language at the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination.
Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/Tamil)  :
A  Degree with Tamil Language as a subject from a
university recognized by the University Grants
Commission ;
or
A Degree in translation from a university recognized
by the University Grants Commission ;
and
For Tamil medium candidates. – A Distinction Pass
for Sinhala Language at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) ;
or
An ordinary pass for Sinhala Language at the G . C. E.
(Advanced Level).
For Sinhala medium candidates .– A Distinction Pass
for Tamil Language at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination or an Ordinary Pass at the G . C. E.
(Advanced Level) Examination.
5.2 Experience :
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory
service of six (06) years in the capacity of Translator
in Class I or Special Grade of the Combined Service ;
or
(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory
service five (05) years in the capacity of Translator
in the Department of Official Languages ;
or
(iiii)Should have completed an active and satisfactory
service of ten (10) years in the capacity of Translator
Assistant in the Department of Official Languages.
5.3 Physical Fitness.– Every candidate should be mentally
and physically sound to serve in any part of Sri Lanka
and to perform duties in the post.
5.4 Others.– Should have satisfied in every respect all the
requirements for the relevant recruitment as at the date
stipulated in the notification/ Gazette calling for
applications :
06. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made on the
results of a structured interview :
Major areas of Assessment Maximum
Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 25
2. Professional Qualifications obtained in 35
relation to the post
3. Additional Experience gained in the field 35
related to the post
4. Performance in the interview 05
Total 100
6.1 Vacancies will be filled from among the candidates who
have obtained highest marks, on the basis of merit
secured in the structured interview.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2088
1. Additional Educational (i) Taking both the relevant languages as subjects for the Degree - 10 Marks
Qualifications (ii) Post Graduate Qualifications :
(25 Marks Maximum) ( a) At least a master level qualification with a research thesis, relevant to the languages
applied for - 15 Marks ; or
(b) At least a master level qualification without a research thesis, relevant to the languages
applied for - 10 Marks ; or
(c) Any other postgraduate qualification - 05 Marks
2. Professional Qualifications (i) ( a) Having completed at least one year Postgraduate Diploma in Translation - 20 Marks ;
relevant to the post or
(35 Marks Maximum) ( b) Having completed at least one year Diploma in Translation - 10 Marks ;
or
(c) Having completed any other course in Translation - 05 Marks.
(ii) A Diploma Qualification for either langauge applied for, without taking it as a subject for the
Degree - 05 Marks
(iii) A qualification which confirms the proficiency in parent languages of the two languages applied
for (02 for each language) - 06 marks maximum
(iv) Knowledge of languages other than the knowledge of the two languages applied for or their
parent languages (02 for each language) - 04 marks maximum
3. Additional Experience (i) Experience in public sector translation in addition to the compulsory experience applicable to
relevant to the post the post - 01 mark for each additional year - 10 marks maximum
(35 Marks Maximum) (ii) Working as Translation Supervisor - 04 marks maximum
(iii) Working as a Translator Trainer - 03 marks maximum
(iv) One mark for each book translated or interpreted with a standard acceptable to the interview
board - 03 marks maximum
(v) A presentation to demonstrate the candidate's ability to work as a superintendent of Translations
- 15 marks
(The following will be discussed : ways of solving issues in translation, theoretical knowledge in
translation, approach to translation, interpretation, collecting technical terms and glossary
compilation, contribution to large-scale translation projects and coordination, conducting
translations as per types and genres of translation and instructing the translators. A higher level
of skill in text processing for the purpose of translation (MS Word, Excel etc.) and also knowledge
and experience in the use of computer-assisted translation software such as TRADOS, OMEGA T
and WORDFAST.)
4. Performance in the Leadership personality and the way of presenting will be taken into consideration - 05 marks
interview (05 Marks
Maximum)
07. Applications should be completed carefully with accurate information. If a candidate is found to be disqualified as per the
rules and regulations of the recruitment examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled before, during or after the intervie w or in any
instance thereafter. If any information furnished by the applicant is found to be false in any instance, he or she is liable to  be dismissed
from the Public Service.
08. Applications should be prepared in the papers of A4 size (24cm x 29cm) :
(a) Section No. 01 to 3.4 should be included on the first page,
(b) Section No. 4.0 onwards should be included in the other pages,
(c) When preparing applications, the title on the top of the applications filled in Sinhala medium should be mentioned
in English language in addition to Sinhala Language and the title on the top of the application filled in Tamil medium
should be mentioned in English Language in addition to Tamil Language.
8.1 The phrase "Recruitment to the Posts of Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/
Tamil) - 2015" should be mentioned in the top of the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
8.2 Duly perfected applications should be sent under registered cover to reach the following address on or before
16.11.2015.
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages,
No. 341/7, "Bhasha Mandiraya",
Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2089
09. The Public Service Commission shall decide on any matter not mentioned in this notification. All applicants should abide
by general rules and regulations laid down in this Gazette Notification.
By Order of the Public Service Commission,
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of National Dialogue.
Ministry of National Dialogue,
No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road,
Rajagiriya,
02nd October, 2015.
A
PPLICATION FOR THE POSTS OF SUPERINTENDENT OF TRANSLATIONS
(SINHALA/TAMIL) (TAMIL/ENGLISH) AND (SINHALA/ENGLISH)
For office use only
Post applied for
(Indicate the relevant number)
1. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English)
2. Superintendent of Translations (Tamil/English)
3. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/Tamil)
01. Name :––––––––––––––.
1.1. Name with Initials Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
2.3 Official Address :––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Address to which the admission card should be sent :––––––––––––––.
(In Block Letters)
2.5 Telephone Number :––––––––––––––.
2.6 District of Permanent Residency :––––––––––––––.
2.7 Period of Residency :––––––––––––––.
2.8 G. S. Division :––––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Sex : Female - 01      Male - 02
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.2 Civil Status : Married - 1      Unmarried - 2
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :      Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 16.10.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2090
04. Education Qualification :––––––––––––––.
4.1 ( a) Degree :––––––––––––––.
(b) University and year in which the degree had been obtained :––––––––––––––.
(c) Subjects of the Degree :––––––––––––––.
4.2 G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subjects Pass
4.3 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subjects Pass
05. 5.1 Service/Post :––––––––––––––.
5.2 Class :––––––––––––––.
5.3 Total period of service under the Government as at 16.10.2015 (as the date of publishing the notification in the Gazette) :
Y ear Months
5.4 Present Annual Salary : Rs. :––––––––––––––.
I declare that particulars furnished in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and I agree with any
decision taken to cancel my candidature if it is detected that I am disqualified before, during or after the examination as per the conditions
of the recruitment examination.
––––––––––––––––––––,
Candidate's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Certification of Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................ who submits this application has been employed in this office
since ............................... and his/her work and conduct is always satisfactory and I have personally examined all th e above information
using the records maintained in this office and found that they are correct and he/she signed in my presence on ...............  2015. He/she
shall be/shall not be released from the current service if selected for the above post.
Date :––––––––––––––.
––––––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department.
Name :––––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––––.
Official Stamp :––––––––––––––.
10–715

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2091
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Recruitment to the Executive Category of Grade III (Open)
Post of Assistant Registrar of Companies in the
Department of Registrar of Companies under the Ministry
of Industry and Commerce - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons who have following
qualifications mentioned under No. 2, for full fill 02 (Two) vacancy
in Executive Category of Grade III Post of Assistant Registrar of
Companies in the Department of Registrar of Companies.
1. Recruitment Procedure. – Applicants, after facing written
examination and interview, who have highest marks on the written
examination, out of the applicants who fullfilled the qualifications,
mentioned in the notification, will be recruited by the Public Service
Commission.
2. Qualifications :
2.1 Educational/Professional Qualifications/Experience :
(i) Have obtained LLB Degree from a university
recognized by the University Grant Commission ;
and
(ii) Being an Attorney-at-Law in the Supreme Court ;
and
(iii) Not less than three (3) year active professional
experience as Lawyer, after sworn in the Supreme
Court.
2.2 Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall have sufficient
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka or Abroad and discharge the duties of the post.
2.3 Age Limit. – Should not be less than 21 years and not
more than 35 years of the age on the closing date of
applications. (Age qualification may complete where
the birthday of candidate is on or before 16.11.1994 and
on or after 16.11.1980 respectively).
2.4 Other :
(i) Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Must have excellent moral character ;
(iii) All qualifications, needed to recruit to this post,
should have been fulfilled as at the closing date of
applications.
3. Conditions of employment and service conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution
fees should be paid to the Widows/Widowers and
Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Appointment will be subjected to a probation period of
three (03) year. As mentioned in the Scheme of
recruitment, 1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be
fulfilled within 03 years from the appointment to
Executive Category of Grade III Post of Assistant
Registrar of Companies.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014
and circulars, incidental thereto, proficiency in other
official language, in excess to the language, recruited to
the service, must be obtained, within 05 years from the
appointment and the officers who recruited by the
language other than official language should obtain
prescribed official language proficiency within the period
of probation.
(iv) This appointment is subjected to procedural rules of
Public Service Commissions, the Establishment Code of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations and Departmental other orders.
4. Salary Scale.– Salary Scale of Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -8x790 -
17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitled for this post according to the
SL-1-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
5. Written Test :
(i) Written test will be held at Colombo on month of January,
2016 by the Commissioner General of Examination on
behalf of the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Medium of the test Test will be Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages.
(iii) One language should be selected for the whole
examination and the selected language cannot be changed
later.
(iv) Written test consists with following papers :
Subject Subject Duration Marks Pass Mark
No. (Minimum)
01 English Language 02 hours 100 40%
02 General Intelligence 01 hour 100 40%
Syllabus of the Written Test :
(1) English Language :
(i) Comprehension.– It is expected to test the skill of
answer by reading a selected paragraph which
consists not exceeding 200 words.
(ii) Grammar.– It is expected to test the grammatical
knowledge of tenses, nouns, formal and informal
speech, passive voice, active voice, gender and
preposition. All the questions should be answered.
(2) General Intelligence.– It is expected to test the applicant’s
knowledge and rationale by analyzing the questions in
mode of figures, pictures, wordings. This paper consists
of 50 questions with multiple choice questions and short
answer questions. All the questions should be answered.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2092
6. Interview :
(i) The candidates which equals to vacancies, will be called
for the interview out of the all candidates who obtained
marks more than 40% for all papers at the examination.
(ii) Basic qualifications and certificates will be examined by
the Interview Board appointed by the Public Service
Commission. Marks will not be given for the interview
and marks obtained from the written test will be issued
by the Commissioner General of Examination.
7. Method of Application :
(i) Application should comply with the specimen
application and if not which will be rejected without
notice. Applicant should complete the application in his
own handwriting, in both sides of A4 size paper with
No. 01 to 05 appearing in 1st page and rest in next pages.
A photocopy of the application is keeping with you will
be useful. Examination Name at Headline of the
application should be mentioned in English in Sinhala
and Tamil applications.
(ii) Applications should prepare in same language which
will use as medium in the examination.
(iii) Applications should be sent under registered cover to
reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examination (Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch) Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or
before 16.11.2015. Applications, received after that date
will be rejected. The envelope enclosing the application
should be marked “Application for the Executive
Category of Grade III Post of Assistant Registrar of
Companies in the Department of Registrar of Companies
(Open)” on the top left hand corner.
(iv) Signature of candidate should be attested by a principal
of a Government School, a Justice of Peace,
Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary
Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force or an
officer holding a permanent post in the Government
with annual consolidated salary of Rs. 275,220.
(v) Applications, without conformity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applications lost or delayed with post will not be
accepted.
(vi) Admission card will be issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, to the candidates who have
duly submitted applications with signature and
attestation, medium of examination, certificate from head
of department if necessary, within the age limit, on or
before the due date, with Receipt of Payment of
Examination fee, with the presumption of that the
applications are submitted by qualified applicants.
(vii) Immediately after issuing the Admission Card, Public
notice will be published by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. If you did not received admission card
before five days to the Examination, please contact
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch of
Department of Examinations. In your request you should
mention the Name of Examination, Full Name of
Applicant, National Identity Card Number and address.
If the applicant is residing out of the Colombo, in addition
to above information he/she should mention the Fax
Number where can receive the admission card through
Fax. In such situations it may useful to keep a copy of
your application, a copy of receipt of examination fees
and Registered post receipt.
8. Admission to the Examination :
(i) Admission card will be issued for all competent
applicants by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Attested Admission card should produce to the person
who in charge of the examination hall. If you do not
produce the admission card you will not be allowed to
sit the examination. You are subjected to the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. if you not comply with above rules you
will be penalized by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(ii) Applicants should sit for the examination in the allocated
examination center. First day of the examination, each
applicant should produce their admission card to the
person who in charge of the examination hall. Rules and
regulations should be complied by the applicants, are
published in this Gazette.
Note.– Even though applicant received the admission card,
it is not considered that the applicant is fulfilled the
required qualifications in the Gazette.
9. Examination fees. – Examination fee of Rs. 1,000 should be
paid at any Post Office or Sub Post Office to be credited to Revenue
Head of Commissioner General of Examination 2003-02-13 on or
before the application closing date. The payment receipt bearing
the appicants name, should be affixed in the application. Money
orders or stamps will not be accepted as examination fee. A copy of
receipt of payment should keep with you for future purposes.
Note.– Examination fees will not be returned for any reason
such as quit from examination, absence to the examination,
disqualified for the examination.
10. Identity of the candidate. – Following identity cards will be
accepted to certify the identity of his/her, in the interview :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
11. Furnishing false information. – Your candidature will be
repealed, if any information mentioned in the application, being
detected as incorrect or false, before the recruitment. If such
information being detected after the recruitment, action will be
taken to demise from the service, subject to the procedure relevant
thereto.
12. If there is any matter not mentioned in this notice, the final
decision of such matter will be taken by the Public Service
Commission. Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or
not to fill vacancies.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2093
13. In the event of any inconsistence between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
16th October, 2015.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE CATEGORY OF GRADE III (OPEN) POST OF ASSISTANT REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES UNDER THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE (2015)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
Write the relevant number in the box
01. 1.1 Full Name (In English Capital Letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2 Name with initials, initials at the end (In English Capital Letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA,  H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
02. 2.1 Sex : Write the relevant number in the box :
Female - 0
Male - 1
2.2 Whether married/unmarried :––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Permanent Address (in Capital English) :––––––––––––.
3.2 Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
3.3 Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Date of Birth :     Year :––––––––––––.    Month :––––––––––––.    Date :––––––––––––.
4.2 Age as at 16.11.2015 :   Years :––––––––––––.   Months :––––––––––––.  Days :––––––––––––.
05. 5.1 Whether a Sri Lankan Citizen :––––––––––––.
(by decent or registration)
5.2 Nationality :––––––––––––.
06. 6.1 Educational Qualifications :
Name of the University/ Registration Internal/ Subjects Class of the Effective date of
Degree and Year Institute Number External pass the degree
6.2 Professional Qualification :––––––––––––.
6.3 Professional Experience as at 16.11.2015 :    Years :––––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––––.  Dates :––––––––––––.
07. Whether you have dismissed from a post or vacation post in Public Service that you had been holding ? :––––––––––––.
08. 8.1 Whether you have been convicted in a court :––––––––––––.
8.2 If yes, Details :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.10.2015
2094
09. Details of the payment of Examination fee :
9.1 Post Office payment has been made :––––––––––––.
9.2 Receipt Number and Date :––––––––––––.
9.3 Paid amount :
Affix the edge of the receipt
10. Certificate of Applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by  me in this application are true and accurate and examination fees payment
Receipt, numbered ......................... and dated ........................... is attached herewith. I agree that if any par ticulars contained therein are
found to be false and incorrect, before the interview I’m liable to disqualify and dismissal. I declare that I will be subjected to the rules and
regulations of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
11. Attestation of the signature of the candidate (Should comply with Section (7) iv of the Gazette) :
I do hereby certify that ....................................... (Full Name) is personally known to me and that payment has bee n paid and
receipt is attached, and placed his/her signature in my presence on ..........................
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Certifying Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of Certifying Officer :––––––––––––.
Occupation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
12. Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution (This is relevant to Public Officers only) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................................... who is working in this Ministry/Department/Institut ion, is
presently working in the post of ........................ and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action  pending against
him/her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in future. He/She can be released from the service once he/she is selected for.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name  :––––––––––––.
Occupation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Should confirmed by Official Seal)
10–494
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.