

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 15.10.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2197$25 - 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2020'10'15
No. 2197/25  - THURSDAY ,  OCTOBER   15,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 5105 — 871 (10/2020)
L. D. B.  40/1973(I)
QUARANTINE   AND  PREVENTION  OF  DISEASES   ORDINANCE   (CHAPTER 222)
REGULATIONS   made by the Minister of Health  under Sections 2 and 3 of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases
Ordinance (Chapter 222).
PA VITHRA DEVI WANNIARACHCHI,
Minister of Health.
Colombo,
October 15, 2020.
Regulations
Regulations relating to Storage of Grain and Regulations relating to Anchylostomiasis published in Gazette No. 7481 of
August 28, 1925, as amended from time to time, are hereby further amended as follows :-
(1) in regulation 3 thereof, by the insertion of new definition of expression “public place” immediately after the definition
of expression “Pratique”,  of the following : -
“The term of “public place” means any place to which the public have access, whether as of right or otherwise,
whether on payment or not, whether on invitation or not.” ;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 15.10.2020
2A
(2) by the addition of immediately after regulation 89 thereof, of the following new regulations :-
“90. Every person in a public place or every person in any other place where such person may come into close
contact with another person, in any diseased locality in relation to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID - 19)
shall -
(a) Wear a face mask at all times; and
(b) maintain social distancing of not less than one meter between two persons.
91. It shall be lawful for the proper authority in any diseased locality in relation to the Coronavirus
Disease 2019 (COVID - 19) to -
(a) restrict the movement of persons ;
(b) take or require any person to take a diseased person or a person suspected to be diseased to a
hospital, place of observation or quarantine centre for treatment or quarantine purpose ; or
(c) direct any person suspected to be a diseased to be self-quarantined in his house, premises or place
of residence for a period not exceeding the incubation period as may be determined by the proper
authority for the whole of Sri Lanka.
92. (1) Every person shall, upon the restriction of movement of persons under regulation 91, stay in his house,
premises or  place of residence for such period as may be determined by the proper authority, for preventing the
spread of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID - 19).
(2) A person shall not, during the period determined under sub-regulation (1) -
(a) enter or leave ;
(b) travel, transport or enter any public place in ; or
(c) travel within.
                      the diseased locality in relation to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID - 19).
(3) A person shall not open to the public any institution, place of business or any other similar premises in a
diseased locality within the period determined under sub-regulation (1) unless being permitted by the proper
authority.
93. The proper authority may allow operating or functioning of any institution, work place, super market,
shop, sales outlet or any other place of business which provides essential services or any other service required for
maintaining national security or public health in any diseased locality in relation to the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID - 19).
94. The employer or person in charge of any institution or work place which provides essential services or any
other service which is required for maintaining national security, national economy, public health or preventing the
spread of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID - 19) in any diseased locality in relation to the Coronavirus Disease
2019 (COVID - 19) shall in carrying out such services, -
(a) not exceed the maximum number of employees and other persons permitted within the premises at a time
stipulated by the proper authority ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 15.10.2020
3A
(b) ensure that every person who enters such institution or work place wears a face mask at all times ;
(c) ensure social distancing not less than one metre between two persons ;
(d) ensure that the body temperature of every person is measured before entering the institution or the
workplace ;
(e) provide adequate hand washing facility with soap or sanitizer for the persons entering the institution or the
work place and ensure that every person who enters such institution or work place washes their hands
before entering such institution or the work place ;
(f) maintain a record of the name, identity card number and contact details of every person entering the
institution or the work place ; and
(g) comply with such other disease preventive measures as may be determined, from time to time, by the
proper authority.
95. A person who owns or in charge of a super market, shop, sales outlets or any other place of business
which provide essential or any other service in any diseased locality in relation to the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID - 19) shall -
(a) not exceed the maximum number of person permitted within the premises at a time stipulated by the proper
authority ;
(b) ensure that every person who enters such premises wears a face mask at all times ;
(c) ensure social distancing of not less than one metre between two persons ;
(d) ensure that the body temperature of every person is measured before entering the premises ;
(e) provide adequate hand washing facility with soap or sanitizer for the persons entering the premises and
ensure that every person who enters such premises washes their hands before entering the premises ; and
(f) comply with such other disease preventive measures as may be determined, from time to time, by the
proper authority.
96. Where the body temperature of any person is more than the body temperature as determined by the proper
authority, such person shall not be allowed to enter such work place or premises as specified in regulations 94
and 95.
97. The driver, conductor and the owner of a motor vehicle which is used for public transportation in any
diseased locality in relation to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID - 19) shall ensure such social distancing
between two passengers as determined by the proper authority and shall comply with such other disease preventive
measures as may be determined, from time to time, by the proper authority.
98. Where the restriction of movement is lifted by the proper authority in any diseased locality in relation to
the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID - 19), every person who enters a public place or any other place where such
person may come into close contact with another person or arranges or organizes a meeting, seminar or any other
similar gathering or obtains all services including essential services, shall comply such other disease preventive
measures as may be determined, from time to time, by the proper authority.” .
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.