

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
793
793
wxl 1"558 _ 2008 cQ,s 11 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'07'11
No. 1,558 – FRIDAY , JULY 11, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 796
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 797
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th July, 2008, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 04th July, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part II of the Gazette No. 1,557 of 04.07.2008 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
794
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
795
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
796
Posts - Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Post of Deputy Registrar in the Supreme Court of Sri
Lanka
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Deputy Registrar
in the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
02. This post is permanent and pensionable.
03. Monthly Salary Scale  .– Rs. 33,335 - 3 x 790 - 17 x 1050 -
Rs. 53,555
04. Age .– Should be not less than 30 years and not more than
40 years of age on the closing date of the applications.
(Upper age limit will not be applicable to the officers already
employed in the Public/Corporation Service)
05. Qualifications :
(a) Being a Deputy Registrar confirmed in the post in the
Court of Appeal in the Republic of Sri Lanka ;
or
(b) Being an Attorney at law who actively engaged in the
practice for a period not less than one year.
Note .– The period in which the applicant served in a staff grade
post as an Attorney at law in any Ministry, Government Department
or State Corporation or as a Lecturer in law in a Law Collage will be
deemed as the period actively engaged in the practice for the
requirement referred to in Section (b) above.
06. Every applicant –
(a) Should be a  citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be of excellent moral character.
07. The applicant should be able to submit all or one of the
following documents when requested:
(a) Certificate of Birth ;
(b) The Highest Educational Qualification ;
(c) The Certificate of Professional Qualifications ;
(d) The Certificate of Highest Examination passed in Sinhala/
Tamil/English.
08. Those who apply for this post should prepare their
applications as per the specimen application form attached herewith
and send by registered post on or before 11.08.2008 to reach the
Secretary, Judicial Service Commission, Colombo 12.
09. Officers who are already employed in the Public/State
Corporation Service should forward their applications through the
respective Head of the Department.
10. The applicant will be acknowledge the receipt of the
application. If the acknowledgement is not received with in one
week from the date of posting application inquiring should be made
from this office on the production of postal receipt.
P. W. D. C. J
AYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Office of the Judicial Service Commission,
Colombo 12,
16th June 2008.
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF DEPUTY REGISTRAR
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SRI LANKA
01. 1. Name with initials  : ————.
2. Names indicated by initials : ————.
02. 1. Permanent Address : ————.
2. Official Address : ————.
03. Nationality : ————.
04. 1. Date of Birth : ————.
2. Age as the closing date of the application : ————.
05. 1. Sex : ————.
2. Whether Married?Unmarried? Widow? : ————.
3. Number of Children : ————.
4. Are they sons? daughters? and their age : ————.
06. Educational/Professional Qualifications :————.
07. The highest examination passed :————.
1. In Sinhala
2. In Tamil
3. In English
08. If the applicant is the Deputy Registrar of the Republic of
Sri Lanka :————.
1. The date of appointment to the post: ————.
2. Date of  conformation : ————.
3. The post held prior to the appointment to that post : —.
4. If the applicant is in the Public/Corporation Service, the
post of first appointment and date : ————.
5. Present annual salary : ————.
(Particulars from 9 to 17 should be filed only by the applicants
who forward their applications as an Attorney at law)
09. 1. Date of recruitment to the legal profession : ————.
2. Preiod in which the applicant actively practiced : dates
should be indicated :————.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
797
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
3. General income earned by the profession during the last
year :————.
4. Courts which you frequently attend : ————.
5. Names of three Judges of the Courts where you
frequently attend : ————.
6. If you have not actively practiced, profession engaged,
post held, dates and annual salary subsequent to the
appointment as an Attorney at law : ————.
10. Personal income if any :
(1) Source of income : ————.
(2) Annual income : ————.
11. Had you been engaged in politics during the period of past 10
years :————.
12. Have you applied for this post before ? : ————.
(if so the post and the year):–––––––––.
13. Do you pay income tax? : ————.
14. Names of two referees should be responsible persons who are
known to you :
(i) Name : ————.
(ii) Post :————.
(iii) Address :————.
(i) Name : ————.
(ii) Post :————.
(iii) Address :————.
15. Is there any disciplinary or charge against you at present?
before ? :————.
16. Have you vacated the post other than resignation? : ———.
17. If you have certificates of merits it should be indicated : ——.
I am aware that particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and if any particular found to be false or inaccurate before
the selection I am liable to be disqualified and if detected so after
the appointment I am liable to be dismissed without any
compensation.
————,
Singnature of Applicant.
Date :————.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss........................... is
functioning in the post of .......................... in this Court,
Department, Corporation and the particulars furnished by him/her
are correct and Mr/Mrs/Miss ……………………… can be released
from the present post if selected to this post.
————,
Signature of the Head of the Department
Post :
Official Frank:
07-117
YOUTH CORPS
Ministry of Youth Affairs Admission of Trainees to Youth
Ranger Training Centre - 2007
A PLACE FOR EVER IN GLORIOUS GENERATION
PRIME objective of the “Youth Corps Training Programme”
implemented under the theme “School - to - Work” is to equip the
Youth with required knowledge while developing their personality,
competency in communication skills, and Computer Literacy to
enable them to achieve their future targets successfully. Those who
aspire to develop themselves and obtain local and foreign
employment through strengthening the innate abilities are invited
to apply for this training programme.
2. Entry Qualifications :
Applications should be :
* Within the age group of 17 - 28 years by the date 16.07.2008
* School leavers who sat for O’ Level
Participation in extra curricular activities such as Sports,
Cadetting and Scouting will be advantageous.
3. Date of Commencement of training programme :
16th July 2008
4. Composition of the Programme :
* Institutional Training (Every working day from 7.30 am.
to 4.30 pm.)
* Personality empowerment
Direction for the V ocational Training Programmes after
Institutional Training.
Institutional Training
Language Proficiency (English & Tamil)
IT Training
Drill & Physical Training
Career Guidance and Counseling
Social Science
National Heritage
Aesthetic Education (Dancing, Music & Art)
Personality Development

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
798
Personality Empowerment
Out door Training for Leadership & Management
Entrepreneurship Development
Communality Development Activities
Individual and Group Assignments
Meditation
Career Development Programme
5. Benefits you can derive :
* Referral to Technical & V ocational Training
* Payment of monthly Allowance of Rs. 1000.00 during the
06 months training period
* Provision of uniforms
* Provision of breakfast, lunch & tea Free of charge during
the training programme
* Participation in workshops in sports & youth camps
* Recognized certificate will be awarded after the successful
completion of the programme
A
PPLICATION – YOUTH CORPS
1. District : 2. Electorate :
3. Divisional Secretariat Division : 4. Gramasewaka Division :
5. Name of the YRTC applied for training :
6. Full Name (In accordance with National ID) :
7. Name with initials :
8. Permanent Address :
9. Date of Birth   :   Age to 16.07.2008 Years           Months      Days
10. National ID Card No. : 11. Gender :
12. Educational         1.   G .C.E. (A/L) Pass : 2.   G . C. E. (O/L) Pass :
     Qualification :
13. Extra Curricular Activities :
         (School Prefect, Sports Activities (Inter House, District, Provinces, National Level) Activities of Dhaham Pasal)
14. Innovative Activities :
15. Future Job Expectations : 1. State Sector 2. Private Sector
3. Own Business 4. Foreign Employment
5. Improve talent as a Job 6. Other
I hereby certify the details furnished  by me are true and accurate.
    Date            Signature
6. Forwarding of Applications :
Duly completed applications are required to send to the closest
Youth Ranger Training Centre in the attached list on or before 15th
July 2008.
7. Interviews :
Interview will be held at YRTCs from 07th July 2008 onward
and selected applicants will be notified after the completion of
interviews.
Youth Corps - Head Quarters,
No. 974/4,
Pannipitiya Road, Director,
Battaramulla. Y outh Corps.
Telephone Numbers :
060-2152660
060-2152661
060-2152662
060-2152663
060-2152664

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
799
Youth Corps Centers
Name of the Centre Address T elephone Number
1 Heiyanthuduwa YDTC, Makola South, Makola 011-2964040
2 Katunayake YDTC, Dammaloka Mawatha, Walanagoda, Katunayaka 0112-260020
3 Attanagalla YDTC, Watupitiwala, Attanagalla 033-2282232
4 Dompe YDTC, Nadungollawatta, Mandawala, Dompe 060-2339834
5 Yakkala YDTC, Werellawatta ,Yakkala, Gampaha 033-2233534
6 Diulapitiya YDTC, Walpita, Hettipola, Diulapitiya 033-2272875
7 Bulathsinghala YDTC, Bulathsinghala 034-2282322
8 Gampola YDTC, Teacher Training College, Gampola 081-2352335
9 Naula YDTC, Arangala, Naula 066-2246204
10 Dambulla YDTC,  Inamaluwa, Dambulla 066-2286177
11 Nuwara Eliya YDTC, Meepilimana, Abewela, Nuwaraeliya 060-2536332
12 Hanguranketha YDTC, Rikillagaskada, Haguranketha 081-2365849
13 Galle - Bope YDTC, Wekunagoda, Bope, Galle 091-2233182
14 Akmeemana YDTC, Ihalagoda, Akmeemana 060-2932436
15 Akuressa YDTC, Maramba, Akurassa 041-4921003
16 Eraminiyaya YDTC, Hungama, Eraminiyaya 060-2489156
17 Weeraketiya YDTC, Naigala, Hakuruwela, Weeraketiya 047-2257143
18 Sooriyawewa YDTC, Pasal Mawatha, Sooriyawewa 047-2288169
19 Kantale YDTC, Seenapura, Kantale 026-2244088
20 Kuliyapitiya YDTC, Degammeda, Wewagama, Kuliyapitiya 060-2879228
21 Wariyapola YDTC, Usawiya Mawatha, Wariyapola 060-2973575
22 Mawathagama YDTC, Denworewatta, Mawatagama 037-2298668
23 Panduwasnuwara YDTC, Nugawela Junction, Thuththioripitigama, Paduwasnuwara 037-2291803
24 Dodangaslanda YDTC, Maduragoda, Dodamgaslanda 037-4924982
25 Nattandiya YDTC, Saragama, Nattandiya 032-5673377
26 Kekirawa YDTC, Mahaweli Complex, Kekirawa 025-2263297
27 Kalawewa YDTC, Galnewa, Bulnewa 025-2269946
28 Anuradhapura YDTC, Paladikulam, Anuradhapura 060-2852809
29 Aralaganvila YDTC, Hansayapalama, Aralaganwila, Polonnaruwa 060-2279016
30 Bandarawela YDTC, Bidunuwewa, Bandarawela 057-2222214
31 Mahiyangana YDTC, Mapakadawewa, Mahiyanganaya 055-2257059
32 Thanamalwila YDTC, Sarvodaya Center, Thanamalwila 060-2483112
33 Nivithigala YDTC, Ambalandeniya, Watapotta Road, Nivitigala 045-2279970
34 Batangala YDTC, Batangala, Panawala, Deraniyagala 036-2258108
35 Galigamuwa YDTC, Asideniya, Galigamuwa 060-2359735
36 Kegalle YDTC, Ga ngodawaththa, Kegalle 060-2352600
07-136
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Examination for the Promotion to the Class I from Grade I
of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service, 2007
APPLICA TIONS are invited from Teachers of Pirivena
(Parivenacharyawaru); qualified as mentioned in said notification
and engaged with the Service of registered Piriven of Sri Lanka
Parivenacharya Service for the Examination to be held for the
Promotion to the Class I of said  Service from Grade I, Class 2 of Sri
Lanka Parivenacharya Service. It is defined that Ministry as the
Ministry of Education; Service as the Sri Lanka Parivenacharya
Service; Order Series as Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service Order
Series.
02. Qualifications .— Should fulfill the following Qualifications
as at 31.12.2004 to sit for the Examination for the Promotion to the
Class I.
i. Should be Parivenacharya of Grade I, Class 2 of Service.
ii. Should obtain 5 marks as per the Orders of Order Series
during the Grade I, Class 2 of Srevice.
iii. Should have obtained Professional Qualifications. (as per
the Orders of Order Series).
Note -
i. Graduates; Master of Education, Master of Arts
(Education), Master of Philosophy (Education) and
Master of Science of Grade I of Class 2 of the Service will
be released.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
800
ii. It will be considered on the Teachers of Pirivena who
fulfill of Qualifications as per the Constitution for
Promotions.
03. Date of Examination .— The Examination will be held in
January, 2009 and the right to postpone or cancel it; shall be with
the Secretary of Education.
04. Examination Centres  .— The Examination will be held at
Centres of following Towns. Cancellation of the Centres of
Examination which candidates are inadequate and directing for the
other centres will be occured on the Discretion of the Commissioner
General of Examination. Heading 2, 0 of Application should be
completed in accordance with the Table of Towns and Town
Numbers which the Examination will be held.
Town Number of the Town
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Galle 04
Matara 05
Hambantota 06
Kandy 07
Matale 08
Nuwara Eliya 09
Kurunegala 10
Puttalam 11
Anuradhapura 12
Polonnaruwa 13
Badulla 14
Monaragala 15
Ratnapura 16
Kegalle 17
Ampara 18
Trincomalee 19
Batticaloa 20
Vaunia 21
Jaffna 22
Area of Service Station (Pls. Refer to Relevant Number as per
the Paragraph 04(a) of Notification of Examination.)
Western Province - 1
Southern Province - 2
Central Province - 3
Uva Province - 4
Sabaragamuwa Province - 5
Wayamba Province - 6
North Central Province - 7
North East Province - 8
05. Limits for the Marks  .— An approximate number to the
Vacancies; obtain highest marks out of Candidates who obtain 200
marks of total Marks or more than to that with not less than 40%
marks for every question paper at the Examination for Promotion
to the Class I; will be qualified to call for the Interview.
06. Service Terms .— Terms of Order Series published in the
Special Gazette Notification issued on 4th of January 2000 bearing
No. 1113/12, Sri Lanka Democratic Socialist Republic, Amendments
occurred to the said Order Series and relevant Common Terms of
the Government Service will be applied for Promotions.
07. Medium for the Examination :
i. The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English medium. Candidate should answer in the medium
he was qualified to admit for the Parivenacharya Service.
ii. Candidate should answer for whole Question Papers in
one language at the examination.
iii. Permission will not be given to change the Language
Medium mentioned in the application at the examination.
08. The Examination Fee .— The examination fee will be
Rs. 300. Receipt; after paying to any Post Office in the Island to
credit Income Heading 4000-20-03-20-13 before closing date of
acceptance of applications; should be sticked on the relevant cage
of the application. The Examination Fee will not be refunded
whatsoever. (It may be useful to keep a Photostat Copy of the
Receipt of Payment for the Examination Fee.)
09. Method of Application :
(a) Mention at the Head 9(a) that it should be arranged 1-4 of
Head Number of the Specimen Application for the first
page, 5-7 for the second page, rest for the third page and
details relevant to that; should be inserted in own legible
hand writing. Mention in same paragraph that applications
which incompatible to the Specimen applications,
incomplete detailed Applications will be rejected without
acknowledgement and it will be useful to keep a Photostat
Copy of said Application. And further mention that the
Candidate should see about compatibility of the
application with the Specimen Application of Notice of
Examination and If it will not be so; the Application will
be rejected.
(b) Closing Date of Application is 10th October, 2008. You
should send your application before said day through the
Head of Pirivena; you have been serving/Director of Zonal
Education to the Commissioner General of Examinations
of Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla in Registered Post. It should be referred
that “The Examination for the Promotion to the Class I
from Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Parivenacharya
Service” On the Top Left hand Corner of the Envelope. It
is instructed to forward application in time to avoid delay
at the Post. It should be mentioned “Name of the
Examination in English” in every application.
(c) Incomplete applications after the Closing Date of
acceptance of application are rejected with no
acknowledgement.
(d) Applications which will be sent to the personal names of
the Ministry or Department of Examinations are rejected
too.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
801
(e) After the Admission Cards are issued; a Newspaper
Advertisement will be published on that forthwith by
Department of Examinations. If the Admission Card was
not received although 2/3 days were passed from the day
which Newspaper Advertisement was published; it should
be informed on that to the Sri Lanka in accordance with
the Advertisement. Department of Examinations; It will
be useful to inform to Department of Examinations;
keeping your Letter of request with certified photo copies
of your Application and the Receipt of the payment of
money, registered Receipt and a Fax Number; If your are
from a remote area.
10.1 Subjects and Syllabus :
Marks Time
Hour
01. General Knowledge 100 01
02. Educational Structure & Comparative
Education of Sri Lanka 100 03
03. Mores of Education of Pirivena 100 03
04. Psychology of Practical Education &
Instructions to the Students 100 03
10.2 Subjects and Syllabus :
01. General Knowledge.— Objective Questions on General
Knowledge related to Educational, Cultural, Economic,
Social, Sports, Science & Technical Fields in National
and International will be asked.
02. Educational Structure & Comparative Education of Sri
Lanka .— Educational Structure-Primary, Secondary,
Tertiary, Educational Objectives, Supply of Educational
Needs, Participation of Education, Assessment of
Students’ Progress, Supervision, Higher Education
Opportunities.’
The higher attention will be drawn to the Understanding
& Adjudication on Comparative status of the countries;
Sri Lanka, India, United States of America, United
Kingdom, Russia, Japan related to this field, after 1960.
Suppy of Education & Employment (Questions includes
on Structure of Education of Pirivena, Objectives of
Education of Pirivena, Development of Education of
Pirivena too.)
03. Mores of Education of Pirivena .— Understanding and
adjudication on new Trends and Mores of the Primary,
Secondary, Tertiary, Educational Fields in related to
Assessment of Students’ Achievement, Education for
Conflict Resolution, Open Education, Supervision of
Class Rooms & Pirivena, Audit of Education,
Educational Technology & Concept and Phenomena of
Procedure of Teaching of Teaching. Buddhist Methods
on Students’ discipline, Solitary teaching based on
Individual potentiality.
04. Pshychology of Practical Education & Instructions to
the Students  .— Identification the needs of Infancy,
Youth and Adolescence and suppy of education
opportunities as per to said needs, assessment of
students’ progress and Consultant Programmes based
on Pirivena, Education Culture and Task of teachers on
that, Identification nature of the students and
contemporary problems of the Students, Motivation
the Students to the Education and motive strategies,
Special development stages and characteristics of
Infancy, Youth and Adolescence, Understanding and
Adjudication on above fields.
* The Secretary of the Ministry  reserves the right to take a final
decision with regard a fact which is not covered in this notification.
11. National Identity.– issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons or valid Passport are only accepted to prove the Identity
of the Candidate to the Head of Examination hall at the
Examinations; held by the Department of Examinations.
12. Issue of the Admission Card to a candidate should not be
considered as an acceptance for the fulfilment of Qualifications to
his/her sitting for the Examination.
 13. Candidates will be subjected to the Rules & Regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations on the holding
the Examination. If said Rules & Regulations will be violated he/she
is bound to subject to a Punishment enacted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
June , 2008.
07-273
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Selection of Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers’ Colleges - 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited from teachers who posses the following
qualifications to follow the Teacher Education Traning Courses in
Teachers’ Colleges.
1.1 Untrained teachers serving in Government Schools who
have obtained their formal appointments signed by the
Secretary of Education Service Committee or by the
Secretary of the Provincial Public Service Commission.
1.2 Teachers who have obtained appointments approved the
Provincial Director of Education and included  in the list of
names of Private Schools certified by the Director of Private
Schools in the Ministry of Education.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
802
1.3 Pirivena teachers who have obtained appointments
approved by the Provincial Director of Education and
registered in the Pirivena Education Branch of the Ministry
of Education.
1.4 Teachers who have been certified by the Distance Teacher
Training Authorities as having not completed their course
of studies in Distance Training or Princett Training Courses.
2. Special Instructions :
2.1 It is expected to train all teachers before year 2012 and
thereafter opportunities will not be provided to be engaged
in teaching in schools without having the specific training.
Selections will be made according to the vacancies existing
in Teachers’ Colleges and based on the Seniority in assuming
duties in the school. Lack of professional qualifications
will cause a loss for the untrained teachers in their promotions
and apart from this it will create and obstacle in the quality
development of education in schools. In consideration of
all these facts all untrained teachers are expected to
complete their training.
2.2. This Course will be  conducted as a two year residential,
training and in instances where residential facilities are not
available, permission will be granted to reside within the
vicinity of the Teachers’ College after obtaining written
approval from the Principal.
2.3 It will not be possible to provide the nearest Teachers’
College as the conducting of the Course in the respective
Teachers’ Colleges will be decided based on the facilities
available in Teachers’ Colleges.
In this regard final decision will be taken by the Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
2.4 During the period of undergoing training in the Teachers’
College trainees should refrain from following any other
courses or to appear for the examinations. Disciplinary
action will be taken after conducting a formal investigation
relating to the information received in this regard and those
who leave the Courses.
03. (i) Trainees whose general conduct found to be inconsistent
with college discipline and diligence in studies is not up
to the standard expected by the Principal of the Teachers’
College are liable to be discontinued from pursuing their
training and will be sent back to their schools. Any trainee
who does not have 90% attendance and participation in
curricular activities will not be eligible to sit the Teachers’
College Final Examination. However, the Secretary,
Education reserves the right to make final decision related
to this matter.
(ii) Leave
Two years full-pay study leave will be granted for
institutional training. All trainees are required to devote
this two -year period entirely for their training. However,
under special circumstances a trainee could be granted a
limited number of casual leave only if the Principal is
satisfied with the necessity.  It is necessary that prior
approval of the Principal should be obtained for same.
Leave  obtained in this manner should not exceed ten
days per year.
A trainee whose progress in studies is found to be
unsatisfactory owing to obtaining of excessive leave is
liable to be discontinued from training and to be  sent
back to school.  Any medical leave taken should be
supported by a Medical Certificate obtained from a
Government Medical Officer.
In instances where the  state of teacher’s pregnancy is
proven to be impeding her training activities, Secretary,
Education reserves the right to take a decision relating to
the continuation of her training.
04.  Trained Teachers’ Certificate will be awarded to those who
successfully complete the Internal Tests and the two year teacher
training course conducted by the Teachers’ College after passing
the final Examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
05. Salary Scale .-In accordance with the amendment made to the
teacher service minutes, in order to place the fixed salary scale the
trained teachers will be absorbed into the Teacher Service.
06. (i) Every Candidate will be trained in the subject indicated
in the appointment letter. However teachers who have
obtained appointments for other subjects can apply only
for the special education course. The teachers who have
been appointed as Government teachers and whose subject
is not mentioned in the appointment letter, could apply
for training, in one of the subjects they have passed the
G. C. E. (A/L) Exam. The candidates are expected to
submit a letter approved by the head of the institution at
the interview to say that they are teaching the relevant
subject. Those whose subject not indicated in the
appointment letter, will be considered as primary teachers.
(ii) When the subject is not indicated in the letters of
appointments of private and Pirivena teachers, they will
be selected for training according to the subject taught by
them. Submission of a copy of Time Table approved and
signed by the head of the institution is essential :
Course No. Name of the Course
01 Sinhala
02 Primary Education
03 Sociology
04 Science
05 Mathematics

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
803
06 Agriculture
07 Home Science
08 English
09 Buddhism
10 Christianity/Roman Catholic
11 Hinduism
12 Islam
13 Art
14 Music
15 Dancing
16 Arabic
17 Special Education (Sinhala
Medium)
(a) Teaching Methods for hearing impaired Children
(Deaf)
(b) Teaching Methods for visually Handicapped
(Blind) Children
(c) Teaching Methods for Mentally retarded Children
18 Handicrafts and Technology
19 Commerce
20 Tamil
21 Physical Education
22 Second Language (Sinhala/Tamil)
07. (I) Eligibility - Every candidate should have fulfilled the
following conditions :
(i) Should possess a good character,
(ii) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii) Should have passed six subjects including
Mathematics and First Language at the G . C. E.
(O/L) or N. C. G . E. Examination in not more than 2
sittings,
(iv) Should have three months service as a teacher by
15.08.2008 (This is applicable to teachers who are
working in the Government schools),
(v) All candidates should prove their type of
appointment by producing their original Letter of
Appointment.
(II) Candidates who select the under mentioned Courses
should possess the qualifications mentioned below in
addition to the above qualifications.
(a) Sinhala Course :
Should have obtained a Credit pass for Sinhala at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
(b) Science Course :
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit passes at the
Senior School Certificate Examination or G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Physics, Botany, Biology,
Zoology, Chemistry, Mathematics (Biology will not
be considered along with Botany and Zoology) ;
or
(ii) Should have passed in Science and Mathematics with
a Credit Pass for Science, in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
(c) Mathematics Course :
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit passes in
Physics, Applied Mathematics, Advanced
Mathematics, Elementary Mathematics, Pure
Mathematics, Mathematics, Science at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the Senior School
Certificate Examination ;
or
(ii) Should have obtained passes at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination in Mathematics and Science with Credit
pass for Mathematics, in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
(d) Agriculture Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass in one of the
following subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
(Old Syllabus) or at the Senior School Certificate
Examination Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany,
Zoology ;
or
(ii) Should have obtained passes in Science and Agriculture
with a Credit Pass for Agriculture, in the New Syllabus,
at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination) ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in one of the following
subjects Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology
at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects. If it is at the N. C. G . E. Examination
a letter from the Principal certifying the pre-vocational
subject of the candidate is required ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a training of not less than six
months in a Govenrment Farm related to Agriculture ;
(e) Home Science Course :
(i) Should have obtianed a Credit pass in Home Science
or Needle Work at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination or at
the Senior Certificate Examination ;

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
804
or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in Home Science at the
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in the above
subjects. If it is at the N. C. G. E. Examination a letter
from the Principal Certifying the pre-vocational
subject of the candidate is required ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained a Certificate after studying Home
Science at a Government Technical College for a period
of not less than one year ;
(f) English Course  :
(i) Should have an appointment as an English Teacher ;
or
(ii) Should be  a teacher in service with 1st, 2nd or 3rd
Class English Teachers’ Certificate ;
and
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit  Pass for English
Language or English Literature at the G . C. E. (O/L)/
London (O/L) Examination or at the Senior Certificate
Examination ;
or
or
(iv)  Should have passed English as a subject at a Higher
Examination.
(g) Religion Course :
(i) Candidates applying for a Course in Buddhism,
Christianity (RC), Hinduism, Islam, should have
obtained a Credit pass for the relevant religion at the
G. C. E. (O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ;
or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass for Religion at
the N. C. G. E. Examination ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in the subject indicated in
(i) above or in a relevant subject at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination ;
(h) Art Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Certificate from the
Government College of Fine Arts (Three Years Course
in Art) ;
or
(ii) Should have obtained the Teachers’ Certificate in Art
(Sinhala/Tamil/English) ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit pass at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination or at the Senior School Certificate
Examination
or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Art at the
N. C. G . E.  Examination ( A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required) ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a pass in Art at G. C. E. (A/L)
examination.
(i) Music Course :
(i) Should have obtained the Final/Intermediate Certificate
in Music of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa Sabha or the
First Part in Peradiga Sangeetha Examination or Jathika
Sangeetha Examination,
or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Government College of Fine Arts ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained the Certificate in Music (Grade
V) of the Northern Ceylon Oriental Music Teachers’
Association ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Music from any recognized Indian Institution of
Music ;
or
(v) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Music at the
G. C. E. (O/L) or Senior School Certificate Examination ;
or
(vi) Should have obtained a pass in Music at the G. C. E.
(A/L) Examination ;
or
(vii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Music at the
N. C. G . E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required).

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
805
(j) Dancing Course :
(i) Should have obtained the Final/Intermediate Certificate
in Dancing of the Lanka Gandharva Sabha or the First
Part in Peradiga Netum Examination or Jathika Netum
Examination.
or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Goverment College of Dancing.
or
(iii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Dancing from any recognized Indian Institute of
Dancing.
or
(iv) Should have obtained a Credit pass for Dancing at the
G . C. E. (O/L) or Senior School Certificate Examination.
or
(v) Should have obtained pass in Dancing at the G . C. E.
(A/L) Examination.
or
(vi) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in dancing at the
N. C. G . E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
Certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required)
(k) Arabic Course
(i) Should have obtained a pass in Stage I and II of the Al-
Alim Preliminary Examination held by the Department
of Examinations or should have obtained a pass in
Arabic at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in the Final Examination
of a recognised Madrasa  Institute. The recognized
Madrasa Institutes are given below :
(1) Bahijathul Ibrahimiya Arabic College, Fort Galle.
(2) Gafuriya Arabic  College, Maharagama.
(3) Madrathul Bari Arabic College, Weligama.
(4) Kasimiya Arabic College, Puttalam.
(5) Nadwatul Ulema Arabic College, Muttur.
(6) Eastern Lanka Arabic College, Addalachchenai.
(7) Madrasathulfula Arabic College, Kathankudi.
(8) Muslim Ladies Arabic College, Kal Eliya.
(9) Madrasathul Jeffriya Arabic College, Galle.
(10) Hiydadiya Arabic College, Madampe.
(11) Nadwathul Buhari Arabic College, Kinniya.
(12) Madrasathul Nooraniya Arabic College,
Kotuwegoda, Matara.
(13) Makkiya Arabic College, Galle ; or
(14) Any other approved Institute (Proof of recognition
of the Institute should be forwarded at the
Interview).
(iii) The teachers of all other appointment with the
qualification of the above i or ii can be applied for this
course.
(I) Special Education Course (Sinhala Medium) - There
are 3 divisions.
(i) Teaching children who are visually handicapped
(Blind).
(ii) Teaching children who are in the category of hearing
impaired (Deaf).
(iii) T eaching children who are mentally retarded.
Candidates should indicate the division preferred
in their application. Special consideration will be
given to those having English Knowledge in
selecting suitable  candidates.
(m) Handicrafts and Technical Skills Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass at the G . C. E.
(O/L) or Senior School Examination in one of the
following handicraft subjects :
Wood Work
Metal Work
Weawing
Pottery
Motor Mechanism
Radio Technology
Masonry
or
(ii)  Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in the  relevant
subject at the N. C. G . E. Examination (A letter from
the Principal certifying the pre-vocational subject of
the candidate is required) ;
or
(iii) Should have a Certificate in proof of successful
completion of course of not less than one year duration
at a Government Technical College or under a
Government Department .
(n) Commerce Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass in two subjects
among Economics, Commerce, Accountancy, Typing,
Shorthand, Commerce and Finance, at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination or Senior School Certificate
Examination.
or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
806
(ii) Should have obtained pass in two subjects indicated
above at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
or
(iii) Should have obtained Certificate from a Government
Technical College for one year Commerce Course.
(o) Tamil Language Course :– Should have obtained a Credit
pass in Tamil Language at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
(p) Physical Education Course :
Should have obtained a teaching appoitment in physical Education.
(q) Sociology Course :– Should have obtained a Credit Pass
in Social Studies at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
or
Should have obtained a ‘A’ or ‘B’ Grade in Social Studies
at the N. C. G. E. Examination
or
Should have obtained a Simple Pass in two subjects
among Geography, Economics, Political Science and
History at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
(r) Second Language
Teachers who have obtained appointments for Second
Language Sinhala/Tamil subjects having qualification
indicated as in para 7(1) above can apply for same.
08. A limited number of teachers from approved Director Managed
School or on the permanent staff of Approved Private Schools,
having a minimum of 20 hours of teaching during a week, will be
selected for training. The following categories of schools are
recognized for this purpose :
(i) Assisted Schools which become Private fee - Levying
Schools in 1951.
(ii) Schools which become Private Non - fee levying
Schools on 01.12.1960.
(iii) Private Schools and Pirivenas approved by the
Ministry of Education (Not by the Divisional/
Provincial Directors of Education).
All candidates who are teachers in Private Schools
approved by the Ministry of Education should have a minimum of
one year continuous service on 15.08.2008 they should produce a
letter from the Provincial/Zonal Director of Education certifying
their date of first appointment and that the teacher belongs to the
approved staff of the school. at the interview.
Pirivena teachers should have minimum service of two (2) years
as on 15.08.2008 for this approved service will be recognised under
the Pirivena Act of 1959 or Pirivena Act No. 64 of 1979.
At present, Pirivena teachers can apply only for the courses in
Sinhala, Science, Mathematics, English, and Buddhism. (They should
obtain training in the subject for which they were appointed).
In addition, teachers who are applying from Vidyayathana
Pirivens can be applied for Music, Art, Dancing, Commerce,
Physical Education and Agriculture.
Private School and Pirivena teachers should submit a declaration
by the Managers at the interview with regards to the following.
(i) That the teacher could be released from service for the
period of training.
(ii) That the Teacher’s salary will be paid during the period
of training,
(iii) That the teacher could be re-employed by the
Management after completion of their training,
(iv) That no request will be made for replacement of the
teachers selected for the training and that their duties
will be distributed  among the other members of the
staff.
Teachers selected from Private Schools and Pirivenas, should
sign an Agreement before their registration to the effect that “No
requests will be made by them for employment in Government
Schools, after completion of their training”.
Teachers from Private Schools should submit the originals of
their letters of appointment with the endorsement of the Provincial
Director of Education. In the case of  teachers who obtained their
appoitment before the age of 18 years, their date of appointment
will be made effective from 18th brithday. The letter of appointment
should be certified by the Provincial Director of Education
concerned, if it has been signed by any other officer.
09. Application for Selection :
(i) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
Specimen given in this Gazette Notification.
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which
the candidate wishes to follow the course.
(b) Application Form should be prepared on a sheet of
paper of 8" x 12" size use both sides.
(c) No alteration or deletion of any cage should be done.
Care should be taken to keep adequate space between
the cages and to avoid any over - crowding
(ii) Candidate should fill in the application properly.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. Special attention
of the candidates is drawn to the following.
(a) Every Candidate must give his/her name as registered
in the Department.
(b) Application should be forwarded through  the Head
of the School; if the candidate is a Head of a School he/
she should forward the application through the
Director of Education in charge of the Division/Zone.
(
c) In forwarding application they should be addressed
as follows :-
Application of untrained teachers (including English) from Jaffna
District to : Principal, Teachers’ College, Kopay.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
807
Application of untrained teachers (excluding English) Tamil
medium from Batticaloa, Trincomalee and Ampara Districts to :
Principal, Teachers’ College Batticaloa.
Application of untrained teachers (Excluding English) Tamil
medium from Mannar, Kilinochchi, Vavuniya and Mullativu
Districts to ; President, National College of Education, Vavuniya.
(d) All Tamil Medium and Sinhala Medium Applications
(Including English) and  all applications of English
Course except Jaffna of the other Districts should be
addessed to Chief Commissioner, Teacher Education
Branch Ministry of Education, Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(e) All application should be forwarded under registered
cover to the relevant address to reach on or before
15.08.2008 the Word “Selection for Teacher Traning -
2009 Name of Course................. Medium...............
District............... ” Should be written on the left hand
corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
(f) Late applications will be rejected and :
(i) Application will not be acknowledged.
(ii) No other documents should be attached to the
application.
(iii) Should be prepared to submit originals and certified
photo copies of all Certificates and other
documents at the interview.
M. M. N. D. Bandara,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
13th June, 2008,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
Specimen Application Form
(Please use both sides of a sheet of paper of the size of
8'’ x 12'’)
Ministry of Education Selection of Teachers to Follow Teacher
Training Course in Teachers’ College - 2009
01. Medium :
02. Date of assumption duties according to the letter of
Appointment :
03. Name of Course :
04. Category of First Appointment (State the Subject) :
05. If you are a teacher registered for Distance Teacher Education
Course :————.
(i) Course : ————.
(ii) Y ear :————.
(iii) Final Results :————.
06. Full name (Surname First) :————.
07. Name with initials :- Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss : ————.
08. Sex :
09. Official Address :————.
10. Catagory of the School Serving :–––––––.
(Whether Govt./Estate/Private/Pirivenas)
11. Private Address :————.
(Private Telephone Number/Contact
Telephone Number)
12. (i) Date of birth  : ————.
(ii) Age as on 15.08.2008 year : —.   Months:––.  Days:––.
13. The School serving belongs to :
(i) District :
(ii) Zonal Education Office :
14. Educational Qualifications :————.
(i) Results of G . C. E. (O/L)/N. C. G . E. Examination :–––.
Index No. :————.
Year :
Grade Obtained
Subjects Passed
First Time Second Time
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
(ii) Results of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Index No. :————.
Year :————.
Grade Obtained
Subjects Passed
First Time Second Time

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.07.2008
808
(ii) Please give details if there are any relevant qualifications :
Institute Subject Duration Certificate
15. Service Particulars :————.
School Served Period of service Whether difficult or Not
I, certify that the above information is true and correct. In the
event of any information herein being found to be false, I agree to
abide by the decision taken by the Secretary, Education. I am aware
of the fact that the decision to select me or not will depend on the
number of teachers and students in the school and service
requirements.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :-
The section below should be filled in by the Principal of the
school in the case of  a teacher and by the Director in charge of the
Zone concerned in the case of a Principal.
(i) The number of teachers in the staff at present
(ii) Number of students
(iii) Whether the existing staff in the school will be sufficient
for the number of students, if the teacher is released for
teacher training....
I, certify that the above candidate is a teacher/Principal serving
in my school/Zone as per his/her first appointment he/she has
assumed duties on................ and is serving in this school from....
up to date. I have examined the particulars given in this application
and certify them as correct.
––––––––––,
Principal/Zonal Director of Education,
(Official Frank).
Date :––––––––––.
07-285
PRINTED AT THE DEPA TMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.