

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1567
1567
wxl 1"825 - 2013 wf.daia;= 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'08'23
No. 1,825 – FRIDAY AUGUST 23, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1570
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1578
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th September, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th
August, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1568
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1569
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1570
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
NUWARA ELIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
07th August, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Ambagamuwa Post of Medical Registrar of Birth and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Hatton Dickoya Town General, District Secretariat,
Division Nuwara Eliya.
08–782
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1571
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
06th August, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Horana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) in District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Raigama Korale Division and Birth and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Munagama Division. Kalutara.
08–742
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE
Inviting Applications from the Officers of Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service to be Promoted into
Supra Grade
APPLICATIONS are invited from the officers of Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Service, who serve in Central Government/Provincial
Council/Local Government Institutions and have fulfilled the
following qualifications stipulated in the Service Minute of the Sri
Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service and to be promoted into Supra
Grade.
1. ( a) Ayurvedic Medical Officer Category of the Department
of Ayurveda :
(i) Completion of a satisfactory service period of eight
years (08) in Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical
Officer category of the Department of Ayurveda ;
and
(ii) A “Post Graduate Diploma” or a higher educational
qualification obtained from a recognized university
or a Post Graduate Institute as stipulated in Appendix
II of the Service Minute of the Ayurvedic Medical
Service.
(b) Medical Officer (Research) Category of the Ayurveda
Research Institute :
(i) Not less than eight (08) years of service in Grade II
of the Medical Officer (Research) category of the
Ayurveda Research Institute ; and
(ii) A Masters Degree obtained from a recognized
university or a Government accepted Post Graduate
Institute as stipulated in Appendix III of the Service
Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service ;
or
(iii) Not less than eight (08) years of satisfactory service
in Grade II of Medical Officer (Research) category
of the Ayurveda Research Institute ; and
(iv) A “Masters Degree” obtained from a recognized
university or a Government accepted Post Graduate
Institute as stipulated in Appendix III of the Service
Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service ;
or

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1572
(v) Not less than fifteen (15) years of satisfactory
service as a Medical Officer in Government or
Provincial Government Service ; or not less than
fifteen (15) years of satisfactory service as a Medical
Officer in Government and Provincial Government
Service ; and
(vi) A "Masters Degree" obtained from a recognized
university or Government accepted Post Graduate
Institute as stipulated in Appendix III of the Service
Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service ;
and
(vii) Being an exceptionally experienced Medical Officer
regarding Ayurvedic researches.
(c) Medical Officer (Education) Category of the National
Institute of Traditional Medicine :
(i) Grade I officer of the Medical Officer (Education)
category in the National Institute of Traditional
Medicine ; and
(ii) A "Masters Degree" obtained as stipulated in
Appendix III of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service ; or
(iii) Not less than eight (08) years of satisfactory service
in Grade II of Medical Officer (Education) category
of the National Institute of Traditional Medicine ;
or
(iv) Not less than fifteen (15) years of satisfactory
service as a Medical Officer in Government or
Provincial Government Service ; or not less than
fifteen (15) years of satisfactory service as a Medical
Officer in Government and Provincial Government
Service ; and
(v) A "Masters Degree" obtained from a recognized
university or Government accepted Post Graduate
Institute as stipulated in Appendix III of the Service
Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service ;
and
(vi) Being a Medical Officer with satisfactory experience
in teaching.
2. Approved Cadre No.
Deputy Director (Technical) 01
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine
Assistant Commissioner (Technical) 01
Department of Ayurveda
Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda
(Provincial Council) 09
Director (Teaching Hospitals) 03
Director (Provincial Hospitals) 09
Deputy Director (Teaching Hospitals)
03
26
Since promotions are being made once in every six months to fill
the vacancies in the Supra Grade from 01.01.1996 (Eg.- 01.01.1996,
01.07.1996 ..... etc.), the Medical Officers who have fulfill the
above qualifications by the said dates can apply for this.
Medical Officers who have fulfilled the above qualifications at
the retirement also could apply.
3. Applicants who satisfy the requirements as stipulated above
could forward their applications prepared according to the specimen
given (application could be obtained from www.ayurveda.gov.lk)
through the Head of the Institution while the retired Ayurvedic
Medical Officers could personally submit their applications to
reach the Commissioner of Ayurveda, Department of Ayurveda,
Navinna, Maharagama on or before 21.09.2013. "Applications for
promoting the Officers of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service
in to Supra Grade" should be indicated on top left hand corner of
the envelope.
4. As per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006, the initial
salary step of a post in Supra Grade is the 20th salary step relevant
to SL-1-2006 salary scale (Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 -
Rs. 53,555).
5. Marking criteria relevant to the interview of promoting into
the Supra Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service will be
as follows :
1. Seniority (Maximum 50 marks)
03 marks for each year served in Grade II of the Ayurvedic
Medical Service and 05 marks for each year served in
Grade I apart from the eight (08) years of satisfactory
service in Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service.
2. Educational Qualifications : (Maximum 20 marks)
For post graduate qualifications obtained from a
recognized local/foreign university or a Government
accepted Local/Foreign Post Graduate Institution on a
subject stipulated in Appendix III of the Service Minute
of the Ayurvedic Medical Service.
(a) Master in Science (MSc.) - 05 marks
(b) Doctor of Medicine (MD) - 10 marks
(c) Master of Philosophy (M. Phil.) - 12 marks
(d) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph. D.) - 15 marks
(If only a Masters Degree has been obtained without a
Post Graduate Diploma, it should be considered as the
minimum qualification.)
3. Efficiency (M aximum 20 marks)
(a) These published for the welfare of - 10 marks
the field of Ayurveda Medicine and
accepted by the Ayurvedic Medical
Council
(b) Reports/books published in relation - 05 marks
to the field

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1573
4. Experience (Maximum 10 marks)
02 marks for each year for the experience in relation to
hospital administration.
(Total marks 100)
By order of the Public Service Commission,
LALITH KANNANGARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine.
Colombo 08.
07th August, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION
APPLICATION FOR PROMOTION INTO THE SUPRA GRADE OF THE
SRI LANKA AYURVEDIC MEDICAL SERVICE
1. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
2. Full name :––––––––––––.
3. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
4. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
5. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
6. Address of the place of work :––––––––––––.
7. ( a) Date of first appointment :––––––––––––.
(b) Present Grade :––––––––––––.
(c) Date appointed to Grade II :––––––––––––.
(d) Period of Service in Grade II (years) :––––––––––––.
(e) Date appointed to Grade I :––––––––––––.
(f) Period fo service in Grade I (years) :––––––––––––.
8. Post graduate qualifications obtained :
(As per Service Minute of the Sri Lanka ayurvedic Medical
Services)
Institution Name of the Duration Date completed
Course (including the period
of training)
9. In which subject stream the Post Graduate/Post Graduate
Diploma obtained is included as per Appendix II/III of the
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service :
––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and accurate.
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Institution :
Application submitted by Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... for
promotion in to Supra Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical
Service is forwarded herewith and I certify that the particulars
mentioned therein are accurate and disciplinary action has been
taken*/has not been taken against the officer within 05 immediate
years.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and Official stamp of the
Head of the Institution.
Date :––––––––––––.
*Any disciplinary action taken should be mentioned.
(Further be informed that applications not duly perfected will
not be submitted to the interview board).
08–775
–––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Recruitment to the Posts of Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil) to
the Department of Official Languages - 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Department of Official Languages from the citizens of Sri Lanka who are eligible to be recruite d to
the following posts.
1. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English)  - 1 post
2. Superintendent of Translations (Tamil/English) - 1 post
3. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/Tamil) - 1 post
02. Selection will be made on the results of a structured interview conducted by a Board of Interview approved by the Public
Service Commission.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1574
03. Monthly Salary Scale - Rs. 20,030 - 365 x 11 - 500 x 18- 33,045
Initial Salary : Rs. 22,200
04. This post is permanent and pensionable.
05. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are applicable for the recruitment to the posts of Superintendent of Translations
(Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil).
5.1 Educational Qualifications :
Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English)  :
Having obtained a degree with Sinhala language as a subject from a University recognized by the University Grants
Commission ; or
Having obtained a degree in translations from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ; and
Having Obtained a Distinction pass for English language in the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination or having obtained
an ordinary pass for English Language in the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination.
Superintendent of Translations (Tamil/English)  :
Having obtained a degree with Tamil Language as a subject from a University recognized by the University Grants
Commission ; or
Having obtained a degree in translation from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission ; and
Having obtained a Distinction pass for English Language in the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination or having obtained
an ordinary pass for the English Language in the G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination.
Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/Tamil)  :
Having obtained a degree with Sinhala Language or Tamil Language as a subject from a University recognized by the
University Grants Commission ; or
Having obtained a degree in translation from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission ; and
For Tamil medium applicants :
Having obtained a Distinction pass for Sinhala Language in the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination or having obtained
an ordinary pass for the Sinhala Language in the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination.
For Sinhala medium applicants :
Having obtained a Distinction pass for Tamil Language in the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) or having obtained an ordinary
pass for the Tamil Language in the G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination.
5.2 Experience :
(i) Applicant should have completed an active and satisfactory service of six years in the capacity of a Translator in
Class I or Special Grade of the Combined Service ; or
(ii) Applicant should have  completed  an active and  satisfatory service of 05 years in the capacity of  a Translator in
the Department of Official Languages ; or
(iii) Applicant should have completed an active and satisfactory service of 10 years in the capacity of a Translator
Assistant in the Department of Official Languages.
5.3 Physical Qualifications :
Every applicant should be mentally and physically fit enough to perform duties in the post and to serve in any part of
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1575
2. Professional Qualifications relevant to the post
(Maximum Marks 35)
3. Additional experience gained relevant to the post
(Maximum Marks 35)
5.4 Others :
All qualifications required for the recruitment to the post should have been completed in all respects as at the date
stipulated in the notification/ Gazette calling applications.
06. Method of Recruitment. –  Recruitment will be made on the results of a structured interview.
Major fields of assessment Maximum Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 25
2. Professional Qualifications that have been achieved in relation to the post 35
3. Additional Experience that has been achieved within the field related to the post 35
4. Skill assessed at the interview
  05
Total 100
6.1 Vacancies will be filled among applicants who have obtained highest marks on the basis of merit obtained at the
structurred interview.
1. Additional Educational Qualifications
(Maximum Marks 25)
(i) Studying both languages as subjects for the Degree - 10 marks
(ii) Post graduate Qualifications :
(a) At least a master level qualifications with a thesis by research relevant
to the language applied for - 15 marks,
or
(b) At least a master level qualification without a thesis by research
relevant to the languages applied for - 10 Marks,
or
(c) Any other postgraduate qualification - 05 marks.
(i) Having completed at least one year Postgraduate Diploma Course on
translations - 20 Marks,
or
Having completed at least one year Diploma Course on translations - 10
Marks,
or
Having completed any other course on translations - 05 Marks,
(ii) Having a Diploma Qualifications for one language out of two languages
applied for, without studying that as  subject for the Degree - Maximum
05 marks
(iii) A qualification which confirm the proficiency of source languages or the
two languages applied for (02 for each language) - 06 Marks.
(iv) Knowledge of languages not included among the two languages applied
for or their source languages  (02 for each language) - Maximum 04 marks.
(i) Experience in Translation works of government service in addition to the
compulsory experience required relevant to the post - 01 mark for each
additional years- Maximum 10 marks.
(ii) Having worked as a Translation supervisor - Maximum 04 marks.
(iii) Having worked as a Trainer of Translations - Maximum 03 marks.
(iv) One mark for each Traslations or a Transliteration of books with a standard
acceptable to the interview board - Maximum 03 marks.
(v) A presentation in confirmation of the ability to work as a Superintendent
of  Translations - 15 Marks

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1576
(Way of solving issues on Translation, theoretical knowledge in
Translation, access and entries to translation, language interpretation
collection of technical terms and glossary compilation, contribution
to large Translation Projects and coordination, leading and advising
Translators according to categories and types of translations will be
considered. A high calibre of text processing in respect of computer
technology usage for Translation work supervision and coordination
and translations (MS Word, Excel etc. and also knowledge and
exeprince in Computer related translation software such as Trados,
Omegat, and Wordfast will be considered.
Attention will be paid to the facts such as leadership personality and
the way of presenting - 05 marks.
07. Applications should be completed carefully with accurate information. If a candidate is found to be disqualified as per the
rules and regulations of the recruitment examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled before, during or after the intervie w or in any
instance thereafter. If any information furnished by the applicant is found to be false in any instance, he or she is liable to  be dismissed
from the Public Service.
08. Applications should be prepared in the papers of A4 size (24cm. x 29 cm)
(a) Para Nos. 01 to 3.4 should be included in the first page
(b) Para Nos. 4.0 onwards should be included in the other pages
(c) In the preparation of applications, the title on the top of the application filled by Sinhala Medium  applicants should be
mentioned in English language in addition to Sinhala Language and the title on the top of the application filled by Tamil
medium applicants should be mentioned in English Language in addition to Tamil Language.
8.1 The heading 'Recruitment to the Posts of Superintendents of Translations (Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and
(Sinhala/Tamil) - 2013'' should be mentioned at the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
8.2 Perfected application forms should be sent by registered post  to the following address on or before - 23.09.2013.
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages,
No. 341/7" "Bhasha Mandiraya"
Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
09. The Commissioner of the Official Languages shall determine any matter that has not been mentioned in this notification. All
applicants should abide by general rules and regulations laid down in this Gazette notification.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
M. S. W
ICKRAMASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Official Languages and Social Intergration.
No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road,
Rajagiriya,
06th August, 2013.
4. Competency shown at the interview
(Maximum 05 Marks)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1577
APPLICATION FOR THE POSTS OF SUPERINTENDANT
OF TRANSLA TIONS (SINHALA/ENGLISH)
(TAMIL/ENGLISH) AND (SINHALA/TAMIL)
For Office use
Post applying for
(Indicate the relevant number)
1. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/English)
2. Superintendent of Translations (Tamil/English)
3. Superintendent of Translations (Sinhala/Tamil)
01. Name :
1.1. Name with Initials : Mr/Mrs/Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English block Capitals)
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2. Of ficial Address :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.3 Official Address :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Address two which the admission card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 01 Male - 02
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.2 Civil Status :
Married -1 Unmarried - 2
(Indicate the relevant Number)
3.3. Date of Birth :
Year :   Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 23.09.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Education Qualifications :
4.1 ( a) Degree :–––––––––––.
(b) University and year in which the degree had been
obtained :–––––––––––.
(c) Subjects of the degree :–––––––––––.
4.2 G . C. E. (Advanced Level) :
Subject Pass
4.3 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
Subject Pass
05. 5.1 Service/Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Class :–––––––––––.
5.3 Total period of service under the government as at
23.08.2013 (as the date of publishing the notification in
the Gazette)
Year : Months :
5.4 Present Annual salary : - Rs. : ....................
I declare that particulars furnished in this application are correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief and I agree with any decision
taken to cancel my candidature if it is detected that I am disqualified
before, during or after he examination as per the conditions of the
recruitment examination.
I hereby that I have earned all the increments during the 5 years
immediately prior to the date of 2013 and I haven't undergone any
punishment (expect warnings) imposed as a result of a disciplinary
action.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss............. who submits this
application has been employed in this office since............. and his/
her work and conduct is always satisfactory and I have examined all
the above information using the records maintained in this office
personally and  I found that they are correct and he/she signed
before me on...... / ............../2013.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Official Frank :––––––––––.
08-706

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1578
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND
WOMEN'S  AFFAIRS
First Efficiency Bar Examination – 2013 for Women
Development Officers
FIRST Efficiency Bar Examination for Women Development
Officers of Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs
will be held in Colombo in November, 2013 by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
It is notified that the closing date for applications of this
examination will be 20.09.2013 :
02. Examination Procedure.–  This Efficiency Bar Examination
will consist of the following subjects. THe examination will be held
Sinhala, Tamil and English. The language medium of examination
indicated initially shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
Subject No. 1 : Financial Regulations/ Time – 02 hours
Office Methods Marks – 100
Subject No. 2 : Gender and Women's
Rights do
Subject No. 3 : Sociology and
Psychological Counseling do
Note :-
(a) An officer is allowed to sit for all the subjects at one
sitting or on different sittings separately.
(b) For a pass, 40% marks or above should be obtained
from each paper.
(c) Each paper contains questions that are compulsory
to be answered.
03. Subjects :
03.01 Part A.– Financial Regulations
Public Management Structure in Sri Lanka
Financial Control and Annual Estimates
(Financial Regulations of the Government Volume
I – excluding Paragraph X)
Part B.– Office Methods
Regulations in the Establishment Code
Office Management covers the following chapters
of the Establishment Code.
(I, II, IV, V , VII, IX, XII, XV , XXIII, XXVI,
XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII)
03.02 Gender and Women's Rights
Treatment against women
Gender in Sri Lankan Society
Sri Lankan Women's Convention and Women's
Rights.
03.03 Sociology and psychological counselling :
- Rural Sociology
- Urbanization in Sri Lanka
- Rural Development
- Basic characteristics and principles of
psychological counseling
- Woman and mental irregularities
- Counseling movement and counseling
opportunities in Sri Lanka.
04. A specimen application for this examination is published at
the end of this notification.
The applicants should prepare their own applications in
accordance with the specimen application. The application should
be prepared including numbers 01 to 06 on the first page and the
other parts on the second page of an A4 size paper. The application
should be completed by the applicant in his/her own handwriting.
The application shall be in the language in which the candidate
intends to sit the examination. It is essential to mention the name of
examination in English language as well, in applications prepared in
both Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
The applicant's designation and the place of work at the moment
of applying for the examination are relevant to all the matters
connected to the examination and the changes that occur after
sending the applications will not be taken into consideration.
05. The applications should be sent through Department Heads
(through Divisional Secretary if in Divisional Secretariats) under
registered cover to reach the "Commissioner General of
Examinations", Sri Lanka Examinations Department, Organizations
and External Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or
before 20.09.2013.
The name of the examination should be indicated in the top left
hand corner of the envelope. Applications received after the closing
date and applications that are incomplete will be rejected.
New entrants connected with official language policy can
complete their applications in the official language or in Tamil/
English languages in accordance with their medium of recruitment
to service.
06. (i) A notice will be published in the news papers by the
Department of examination as soon as admission card are
issued to applicants. If the admission card is not received
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps shall
be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be
advisable to send certified photocopies of the application

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1579
form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of
registration attached to your letter to reach the
Department of examination through Fax, in case of
applicants outside Colombo, a Fax Number shall be
indicated in the letter of request for sending the admission
Card.
(ii) Every candidate must get his/her signature on the
admission card in attested inadvance and hand it over to
the supervisor on the first day he/she presents himself/
herself for the examination.
(iii) The issuance of an Admission Card to a candidate does
not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
07. Identity.- Candidates need to prove their identity to the
supervisor in the examination hall for each subject taken. Any of
the following documents will be accepted for that purpose.
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for Registration of Persons,
(ii) Valid Passport.
Commissioner General of Examinations has the authority to
reject or to cancel the candidature of an applicant who fails in
submitting any documents above.
08. Examination fees.- According to the following basis, fees are
charged from the applicants who sit for this examination.
Examination fees Rupees Cents
(a) No. examination fee for the first sitting -  -
(b) For the complete examination after
the first sitting 400  0
(c) For one subject 200  0
Examination fees should be paid to the Divisional Secretariat, to
be credited to the Expenditure Head 2003-99-00 of the Secretary to
the Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs and the
receipt obtained should be properly pasted in the allotted space.
Keeping a photocopy of the receipt would be useful.
09. (i) This examination is conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates are subject
to the rules and regulations specified by the
Commissioner with relevance to conducting the
examination. If the said rules and regulations are violated
by any candidate, he/she will be subject to a punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(ii) The result sheet containing the total marks and marks
secured by all the candidates shall be provided to
Secretary, Ministry of Child Development and Women's
Affairs.
10. Duty leave should be granted by the Heads of Departments/
Offices for the officers of their Departments/Offices who have
been qualified to sit for the examination and who have been issued
an admission card by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
to sit for the examination.
11. If any matter is not included in these rules and regulations,
such will be dealt with at the discretion of the Secretary to the
Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs.
Secretary,
Ministry of Child Development and
Women's Affairs.
Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs,
No. 175A, Nawala Road,
Nugegoda,
06th August, 2013.
APPLICATION  FORM
(For office use only)
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION 2013 FOR WOMEN
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS OF THE MINISTRY OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT
AND WOMEN'S AFFAIRS
Medium of Examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the box)
1. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––––.
((Initials at the end in Block Capitals)
(Eg.- SILV A, A. B.)
1.2 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
2. Official Address :––––––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
2.1 Official Address :––––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.2 Admission card should be addressed to :–––––––––––.
(English Block capitals)
2.3 Telephone Number :––––––––––––––.
3. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
3.2 Civil Status :
Married - 1
Single - 2

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1580
3.3 Date of birth :
Year :              Month :    Date :
3.4 Age as at closing date (20.09.2013) :
Years : Months :  Days :
4. Date of appointment for the post of Women Development
Officer in the Ministry of Child Development and Women's
Affairs :––––––––––––––.
(The date on which duties were assumed should be indicated).
5. Whether an old entrant or a new entrant to the prime objectives
of Official Language Policy :––––––––––––––.
6. Name of the Department (If it is a Divisional Secretariat, indicate
its name) :––––––––––––––.
7. Subjects and subject numbers applied for in accordance with
paragraph 02 of the Gazette Notification :
Subject Subject No.
01.
02.
03.
8. Whether it is the first sitting ? :––––––––––––––.
9. Details of the receipt of the payment of examination fees :
(i) Divisional Secretariat to which the payment has been
made :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and date :––––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of payment :––––––––––––––.
Attach the Receipt here
(Keep a photocopy)
10. I do hereby declare that the above particulars are true and
correct and I am entitled to sit for the examination in the above
mentioned medium. I also declare that I am subject to the rules
and regulations implemented by the Commissioner General of
Examinations with relevance to conducting the examination and
to the decisions taken with relevance to the issue of results.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––––.
N. B.– Applicant's signature should be placed in the presence of
the Head of the Department or an officer who is authorized to sign
for the Head of the Department.
Certification of the Applicant's Signature
I do hereby certify that Miss/Mrs. ..................................... who
is an employee in my office and whom I personally know placed
her signature in my presence on ......... 2013.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name :––––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department
I certify that,
(i) I examined all the particulars furnished, they are accurate,
relevant examination fees have been paid, the receipt has
been attached, and applicant sit for the examination for
the first time.
(ii) The applicant is eligible to sit for the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
(Official Stamp)
Title :––––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––––.
08-800
––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Examination for Promotion of the Officers in Class I of
Sri Lanka Technological Service to Special
Class – Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the Approved Service
Minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the examination for
promotion of officers in Class I of Sri Lanka Technological Service to
special class will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, in Colombo, on in the month of December, 2013.
Officers who have possessed a satisfactory service of four years in
Class I of Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the closing date of
applications shall become eligible for applying for this examination :
(i) The vacancies in Special Class of Sri Lanka Technological
Service remaining from 03.07.2012 to 02.07.2013 are filled
on the results of this examination.
(ii) In filling the vacancies, the officers who have satisfied the
qualifications as at the date on which post has fallen vacant
shall strictly be considered for promotion.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1581
the respective Head of Department and officers in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications through the Secretary
of PSC in the Provincial Council where they serve, by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 23rd of September,
2013. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application
should bear clearly the title of the examination. Applications received
after the closing date of applications will be rejected.
06. Identity Cards.– Candidates should prove their Identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents
should be surrendered to the supervisor of the examination hall.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the
discretion of Commissioner General of Examinations.
07. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size.
No. 01 to 06 should appear on the first page. Applications
could be typed but they should be completed correctly
and legibly by the candidate in his/her own handwriting
and in the language medium in which the candidate sit this
examination.
When preparing the application, the title of the examination
should be written in English in addition to Sinhala on Sinhala
applications and Tamil on Tamil applications.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and
have not been duly perfected shall be rejected without
notice. Therefore, the candidates themselves should make
sure that the perfected applications are in conformity with
the specimen form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of
the application form with the candidate.
(ii) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium
selected by them in their applications. If applications are
received in all three language mediums, i. e. Sinhala, Tamil
and English, the examination will be held in those three
language mediums. However, candidates should answer all
the question papers in one and the same language selected
by them.
(iii) Candidates who appear for this examination for the first
time are not required to pay any examination fee. However,
if a subsequent sitting, an examination fee of Rs. 500 should
be paid at any District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited
to Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The receipt obtained thus
02. Following salary scale shall be applicable to the officers in
Special Class :
(MN-7-2006-A Step 4)
Rs. 21,125- 8x365 -18x500 - Rs. 33,045.
03. (i) Promotion from Class I to Special Class of Sri Lanka
Technological Service shall be in the following manner :
(a) 40% of the vacancies in the Special Class shall be filled by
the officers who pass the examination and possess 04
years' service in Class I and a satisfactory service as at the
date of promotion.
(b) 60% of the vacancies in the Special Class shall be filled by
the officers who possess satisfactory service of 06 years
in Class I and a satisfactory service of 05 years immediately
preceding the date of promotion on their seniority and
merit.
(c) In case where the number of approved posts in Special
Class is less than 05 the percentages mentioned in sub-
para "a" and "b" above shall not be made applicable.
Relevant vacancies shall be filled on the seniority and merit
of the officers.
(d) In case where number of the approved posts in Special
Class is five or above and the number of posts fallen vacant
in the year is four or less, the filling of vacancies shall be
made on the seniority and merit of the officers who become
eligible for promotion.
(e) When filling of vacancies under sub-para "a" and "b" above,
action shall be taken to fill the number of vacancies existing
under para "b" first and then to fill the number of vacancies
existing under para "a".
(g) When the officers of Class I of the Sri Lanka Technological
Service are promoted to Special Grade, the Head of
Departments shall take actions to include the marking
scheme prepared on the approval of the Public Service
Commission for determining the merit in relevant scheme
of recruitments.
04. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by
the rules and regulations prescribed by him in respect of
conducting the examination and issuance of results.
(ii) The candidates will be subjected to the punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
if such rules are violated by them. Rules prescribed for
candidates are printed separately at the beginning of this
Gazette notification.
05. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required to
prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and
officers in the Public Service should forward their applications through

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1582
from the District/Divisional Secretariat should be affixed
in the relevant cage of the application form.
It will not be allowed to transfer such fee for any other
examination.
08. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting for the
examination must get his signature on the admission card attested in
advance and produce the supervisor of the examination center. It will
not be allowed to sit the examination without such admission card.
Further, issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
As soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates,
Department of Examinations will publish a paper notice announcing
it. If the admission card is not received even after 2-3 days of such
notice, it should be informed the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations the following information without delay :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Full postal address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered number and
Post Office.
It would be useful to have the following documents in hand at the
time of calling Department of Examinations, i. e. a certified photocopy
of the original application form, receipt of registration and in case of
applications outside Colombo, the letter of request with the fax
number to which the admission card should be sent.
09. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in Para. (08) above will
not be considered.
10. Issue of the Results of the Examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in Para. 5 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to Provincial Public Service will be issued to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the results
of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued to the
Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
11. Scheme of Examination :
(i) Examination for promotion of officers in Class I to Special
Class will consist of 2 question papers :
Aptitude Test - Duration 1 1/2 hours - 100 marks
Management - Duration 2 1/2 hours - 100 marks
Candidates will be required to obtain a minimum of 40
percent of the marks assigned to each of the subjects to
pass the examination.
Syllabus of the first question paper will be as follows :
All the questions should be answered.
Aptitude -Subject No. (1)
The paper will be designed in such a way that the
applicant's power of critical reasoning, analytical skills
and ability of decision making is measured.
Syllabus of the second question paper will be as follows :
Management - Subject No. (2)
(i) Principles of Management
(ii) Management functions
Planning
Decision making
The process of decision making
Organization
Staffing
Monitoring
The process of motivation
Leadership
Administration
The process of administration policies
(iii) Participatory Management
(iv) Management Environment
(v) Case study
This is a structured essay type question paper. All the
questions should be answered.
12. Candidates are bound by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examination in conducting this
examination and issuing the results. Candidates are liable to be
subjected to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examination for breach of these rules.
13. The decision of Public Service Commission will be the final in
respect of any matter not provided for in this notification.
14. In case of an inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts. The Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
07th August, 2013.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.08.2013
1583
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For office use only)
EXAMINA TION FOR PROMOTION OF THE OFFICERS IN CLASS I OF THE
SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE TO SPECIAL
CLASS – YEAR 2013
01. ( a) Medium in which the officer appears for the examination :
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Write in the relevant cage)
(b) Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters) Eg.- SILV A, A. B.
(c) Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters)
(d) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
(e) Official address (Admission will be posted to this address)
(in English) :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(f) Sex :
(Male - 0,  Female - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(g) National Identity Card No. :
(h) Telephone Number :
02. (i) Whether you belong to the Provincial Public
Service or Public Service
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Public Service - 01, Western Provincial Public
Service - 02, Southern Provincial Public Service - 03,
Central Provincial Public Service - 04, North Western
Provincial Public Service - 05, Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Public Service - 06, Uva Provincial Public Service - 07,
North Central Provincial Public Service - 08, Northern
Provincial Public Service - 09, Eastern Provincial Public
Service - 10)
03. Department which you belong to :––––––––––––.
04. (i) Designation :––––––––––––.
05. Period of service as at 02.07.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
06. (i) Date of birth :
Year :      Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 02.07.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of Rs. 500 firmly, if not
the first sitting. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy).
Receipt number of the examination fee :–––––––––––.
Office paid :–––––––––––.
Amount paid :–––––––––––.
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I
am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Furthermore, I hereby agree to be abided by the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations in conducting the examination and issuing the results.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized
to sign on his behalf or Head of the Regional Office.
ATTESTATION OF CANDIDATE'S SIGNA TURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is presently
employed in my office and is personally to me and he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on ................. 2013 and he/she has paid
the examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
Official Seal.
CERTIFICATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragaraphs 01 - 06
above are correct that this candidate is eligible to sit for the
examination, that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the
language medium mentioned above that the stamps have been affixed
to the value corresponding to examination fee and the signature and
date has been placed.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of
Head of Department.
Official Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– A certified copy should be sent to the personal file of
the candidate and the other copy should be sent to reach
the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka promptly.
08–760
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.