

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC OF   SRI  LANKA - 17.07.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2080$34 - 2018 cQ,s ui 17 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2018'07'17
No. 2080/34 - TUESDAY,  JULY  17, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
L.D.-B 7/ 2001 (III)
THE  UNITED  NATIONS  ACT,  No.  45  of   1968
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of  Foreign Affairs under Section 2 of the United Nations Act, No. 45 of 1968.
TILAK M ARAPANA,
Minister of  Foreign Affairs.
Colombo,
17th of July, 2018.
Regulations
PART   I
PRELIMINARY  PROVISIONS
1. These regulations shall be cited as the United Nations (Sanctions in relation to Iran) Regulations No. 1 of 2018.
2. The object of these  regulations is to enable the Government of Sri Lanka to implement targeted financial
sanctions relating to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, giving effect to Resolutions 1737 (2006) and 2231
(2015) of the  United Nations Security Council, and any subsequent resolutions, related to Iran and all resolutions that
repeal, replace or amend earlier resolutions related to Iran.
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  4125 —507(07/2018)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC OF   SRI  LANKA - 17.07.2018
2A
3. These regulations Shall apply to-
(a) All citizens of Sri Lanka and bodies corporate incorporated under a law of  Sri Lanka wherever
located ; and
(b) a vessel  flying  the flag of Sri Lanka ;
(c)  an aircraft  registered in Sri Lanka ; and
(d) an  offence committed on board a vessel flying the  flag of  Sri Lanka or an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka
wherever located.
4.  There shall, for the purpose of these  regulations  be a Competent Authority who shall be appointed  by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister to whom the subject of Defence has been assigned.
5. The Competent Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit shall be responsible for :-
(a) communicating to institutions of designations and revocations of the natural and legal persons and
entities designated by the Security Council or any of its Committees established pursuant to United
Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015) or any subsequent resolution in relation thereto
(hereinafter referred to as the “designated person or entity”) ; and
(b) providing guidelines and directions to Institutions on their obligations and duties under these
regulations.
6. The functions of the supervisory authorities of the Institutions shall be to :-
(a) monitor and assess the level of risk of proliferation financing across all of the persons and entities that
it supervises ; and
(b) monitor the natural persons and entities that it supervises for compliance with these regulations, and
for this purpose to develop and implement a risk-based supervisory programme ;
(c) provide guidelines to persons and entities in respect of matters relating to the implementation of these
regulations ;
(d) obtain reports under Part IV of these regulations ; and
(e) enforce compliance with these regulations.
7. The Financial Intelligence Unit and supervisory authorities of the Institutions shall monitor and enforce
compliance with these regulations and investigate violations thereof  of these regulations.
PART  II
DESIGNATION OF PERSONS AND ENTITIES
8. A designation of a person or entity by the United Nations Security Council or any Committee established
pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1737 (2006) and 2231 (2015) and any subsequent resolutions
related to Iran and all resolutions that repeal, replace or amend earlier resolutions related to Iran shall-

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC OF   SRI  LANKA - 17.07.2018
3A
(a) have immediate application in Sri Lanka ; and
(b) have the immediate effect of imposing the prohibitions specified in these regulations
PART  III
PROHIBITIONS
9. (1) A person shall not deal with funds or other assets knowing that, or reckless as to whether the funds or other
assets is owned or held, directly or indirectly, wholly or jointly -
(a) by a designated person of entity ;
(b) on behalf of a designated person or entity ; or
(c) at the direction of designated person or entity.
(2) A person shall not make  available funds, other assets or financial services knowing that, or reckless as to
whether, they are being made available, directly or indirectly, wholly and jointly -
(a) to a designated person or entity ;
(b) to a person or entity owned or controlled by a designated person or entity ;
(c) to a person or entity acting on behalf of a designated person or entity ;
(d) for the benefit of a designated person or entity.
10. A person may credit a frozen account with interest or other earning due on the account or payments due under
contracts, agreements or obiligations that were concluded or arose before the account became frozen under regulation 9
or other funds transferred by a third party to such accounts, as long as the funds so credited are also frozen.
11. A person holding funds or other assets which are subject to freezing measures as specified in regulation 9
shall also be prohibited from providing notice at any time prior to the freezing action, to the designated person that his or
its funds or other assets are to be frozen or assets are not being made available.
12. A person who contravenes the provisions of regulations 9 and 11 commits an offence and shall on conviction
by the High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees one million or to an imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
13. (1) Where the assets belonging to a person or entity are frozen due to the fact that such person or entity has
an indentical identity as that of a designated person or entity, any interested party may submit a request to the Competent
Authority to verify that the effected person or entity is a designated person or entity.
(2) Once the request has been received, that Competent Authority shall verify the grounds for the interested
party's claim, as briefly as possible, checking if the identity of the natural or legal person or entity whose assets were
frozen corresponds to the identity of a person or entity identified in a designation act.
(3) Once the match of the affected person or entity to the identity of a designated person or entity has been
ascertained to be false, the Competent Authority shall communicate such fact to the person who has frozen assets in
accordance with regulation 9 and upon such communication, such person shall immediately withdraw the freezing measures
taken under regulation 9.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC OF   SRI  LANKA - 17.07.2018
4A
PART   IV
REPORTING OBLIGA TIONS
14. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written law, any institution shall, in relation to any
designated person or entity -
(a) inform the Competent Authority, Financial Intelligence Unit and the supervisory authorities of the
Institutions, if he knows or suspect that an existing customer, or customer or any other person or
entity with whom he has done business, or any other person or entity known to him is a designated
person or entity or is a person acting on behalf of a designated person or entity ;
(b) provide the Competent Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit with information regarding –
(i) the status of the funds, freezing under regulation 9 and any other actions taken with respect to
the funds ;
(ii) the nature and amount or quantity of any funds or other assets held by the relevant institution
for the designated person or entity or transactions executed, or held by a person for the designated
person or entity ;
(iii) any transactions or attempted transaction by or on behalf of a designated person or entity ;
(iv) any transaction or attempted transaction in respect of frozen funds or other assets ; and
(v) any other information that would facilitate compliance with these regulations ;
(c) cooperate with the Competent Authority or the Financial Intelligence Unit as the case may be, in any
verification of this information.
(2)  Any information provided or received in accordance with this regulation shall be used only for the purposes
for which it was provided or received. Any information provided to the Competent Authority or to the Financial Intelligence
Unit in accordance with this regulation shall not be treated as a breach of any restriction imposed by any written law or
otherwise.
(3)(a) A person who holds as asset which he or she suspects is, or may be, owned, controlled or held on behalf
of, or at the direction of, a designated person or entity may make a request in writing to the Competent
Authority with a copy to the Financial Intelligence Unit, to verify that suspicion.
(b) The request shall be accompanied by details of the asset and the owner or controller of the asset as
known to the person making the request.
(c) The Competent Authority shall use their best endeavours to assist a person who has made a request
under paragraph (a).
(d) As soon as in reasonably practicable after receiving a request under paragraph (a), the Competent
Authority or the Financial Intelligence Unit, shall respond in writing stating that-
(i) it is likely that the property is owned or controlled by a designated person or entity ;
(ii) it is unlikely that the property is owned or controlled by a designated person or entity ; or
(iii) it is unknown whether the property is owned or controlled by a designated person or entity.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC OF   SRI  LANKA - 17.07.2018
5A
PART  V
AUTHORIZATION
15. (1) The Competent Authority may grant specific authorisation to permit the use of frozen funds or other
assets as he deems necessary to meet ;
(a) a basic expense ;
(b) a contractual obligation that arose prior to the date on which the funds or other assets became frozen
under these regulations ;
(c) an extraordinary expense ; or
(d) a judicial, administrative or arbitral lien or judgment entered into prior to the designation of the person
or entity, and the asset is necessary to satisfy that lien or judgment.
(2) For the purpose of this regulation -
“basic expense” means an expense necessarily incurred for any of the following purposes :
(a) obtaining foodstuffs ;
(b) paying rent or mortgage ;
(c) obtaining medicine or medical treatment ;
(d) paying taxes ;
(e) paying insurance premiums ;
(f) paying utility charges ;
(g) paying reasonable professional fees ;
(h) paying reasonable expenses associated with the provision of legal services ;
(i) paying fees or service charges that are in accordance with any written law for the routine
holding or maintenance of a frozen asset ;
(j) any other similar purpose ;
“extraordinary expense” means any payment which is not a basic expense or a contractual obligation
that the Competent Authority considers ;
(a) to be necessary ; and
(b) does not violate the requirements of a United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015) or any
subsequent resolution in relation thereto.
16. (1) In relation to persons and entities designated by the United Nations Security Council or any of the Committee
established pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231(2015) or any subsequent resolution in relation
thereto, the Competent Authority may also grant an authorization if the action contravening a prohibitions is ;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC OF   SRI  LANKA - 17.07.2018
6A
(a) necessary for a civil nuclear cooperation project described in Annex III of the Joint Comprehensive
Plan of Action ; or
(b) necessary for any activity required for the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.
(2) The Competent Authority shall, prior to granting an authorisation -
(a) consider whether such authorisation amounts to a violation of a provisions of a United Nations Security
Council Resolution 2231(2015) or any subsequent resolution in relation thereto ;
(b) seek any approvals required by, and make any notifications required to, the United Nations Security
Council or its Committee s established pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution
2231 (2015) or any subsequent resolution in relation thereto ; and
(c) consider any communication from a foreign government relevant to the authorisation.
(3) The Competent Authority may impose any conditions on an authorisation under the provisions of these
regulations.
17. An application made by any person for an authorisation under the provisions of these regulations shall be
determined by the Competent Authority within a reasonable time and respond to the applicant in writing to :
(a) grant the authorisation including any conditions attached to the authorization ; or
(b) deny the authorisation.
PART  VI
Miscellaneous
18. The Competent Authority, Financial Intelligence Unit and the Minister shall refer any matter or information
relevant to violation or possible violation of an obligation under these regulations to the appropriate law enforcement
agencies and in the case of institutions, also to their respective supervisory authorities of the Institutions for consideratio n
whether or not the administrative sanctions ought to be imposed.
19. The Competent Authority shall consult with law enforcement agencies, the Financial Intelligence Unit,
supervisory authorities of the Institutions and other appropriate agencies and develop a plan that shall be implemented for
monitoring compliance and enforcing sanctions related to these regulations.
20. The Competent Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit may issue directives for the implementation of
practices and enforcement of obligations under these regulations.
21. The Competent Authority may consult, and solicit information from, any person or government institution in
giving effect to the provisions of these regulations.
22. No person shall be subject to any civil or criminal liability for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith
in accordance with these regulations.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC OF   SRI  LANKA - 17.07.2018
7A
PART  VII
Definitions
23. For the purpose of these regulations –
“control” means exercising influence, authority or power over decisions about financial or operating policies,
and includes control as a result of, or by means of, trusts, agreements, arrangements, understandings or
practices, whether or not having legal or equitable force and whether or not based on legal or equitable
rights, and “controlled” has  a corresponding meaning;
“deal” includes sale, supply, lease, transfer, conversion, disposition, movement or use, and dealing and
“dealt” have the same meaning;
“entity” includes any unincorporated body, group, association, organization, institution or arrangement ;
“Financial Intelligence Unit” means the Financial Intelligence Unit established under the Financial Transactions
Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006 ;
“Financial services” means engaging in any activity which constitutes a “finance business” within the
meaning of the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006 ;
“funds and other assets” means any assets, including, but not limited to, financial assets, economic resources
(including oil and other natural resources) property of every kind, whether tangible or intangible,
movable or immovable, however acquired, and legal documents or instruments in any form, including
electronic or digital, evidencing title to, or interest in, such funds or other assets, including, but not
limited to, bank credits, travellers cheques, bank cheques, money orders, shares, securities, bonds,
drafts, or letters of credit, and any interest, dividends or other income on or value accruing from or
generated by such funds or other assets, and any other assets which potentially may be used to obtain
funds, goods or services ;
“frozen asset” means an asset which cannot be dealt with due to a prohibition imposed by these regulations ;
“Institution” shall have the same meaning as in the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006 ;
“Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA)” means the agreement on the nuclear programme of Iran
concluded in Vienna on July 14, 2015 between Iran, the P5+1 (the five permanent members of the
United Nations Security Council - China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States-
plus Germany), and the European Union ;
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subject of Foreign Affairs has been assigned ;
“Own” means having a legal entitlement, either directly or indirectly, to twenty five per centum or more of a
body corporate or entity, and “owned”,  “ownership” and “owning” have corresponding meanings.
“Person” shall have the same meaning as in the Interpretation Ordinance (Chapter 2).
08 - 99
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.