

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 27]
————————
Presented by the Hon. Tissa Attanayake, M. P. on 23rd of February, 2021
(Published in the Gazette on February 15, 2021)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
SATHYA  SRI  GHANAPATHI  BHAKTHI  JANA
SEWA  FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the  Sathya  Sri  Ghanapathi  Bhakthi  Jana  Sewa  Foundation
Price : Rs. 17.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
Preamble
Short title
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SATHYA SRI GHANAPATHI BHAKTHI
JANA SEWA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a society called and known as the “Sathya Sri
Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa Foundation” has heretofore
been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said society according to the rules agreed to by the
members:
AND WHEREAS the said society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant the said
application.
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Sathya Sri Ghanapathi
Bhakthi Jana Sewa Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of
2021.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as mambers of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be, a body corporate with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Sathya Sri
Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued with full power and authority to have, and use a
common seal, and  to alter the same at its pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
Incorporation
of the Sathya
Sri
Ghanapathi
Bhakthi Jana
Sewa
Foundation
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to reconstruct the Sathya Sri Jungle Ghanapathi
Temple and its premises;
(b) to construct a God’s Altar for rituals;
(c) to construct a Pilgrims’ Rest and other infrastructure
facilities to provide free accommodation to the
devotees;
(d) to conduct vocational training to the unemployed
youths through the well-wishers attached to the
Temple and to direct them for employment
opportunities.
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the
management and administration of the affairs of the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of  Management
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the  rules
made under section 7.
(2)(a) The Board of the Foundation holding office on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporation until
the first Board is appointed or elected in the manner provided
for by rules made under section 7.
Objects of the
Corporation
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the
Government
or Province

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3)(a)  Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of
the Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such
vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
other written law, the Corporation shall have the power
to do, perform and execute all such acts and matters as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purposes of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to barrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:
Powers of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
Provided that the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell, and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;
(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Corporation, in such manner
as the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances, and gratuities as
may be determined by Corporation;
(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the
Corporation;
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Corporation; and
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation.
7.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation
35

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
5
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;
(b) the election of the office bearers for the Board,
vacation or removal of office bearers and the powers,
duties, and functions of the office bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board or any
s
ub-Board thereof, notices and agenda of  such
meetings, the quorum the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
member of the Board and the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) generally the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects
and dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members shall be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for
and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one
or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10.
(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor
appointed by Auditor-General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
(4) For the purpose of this section, “qualified Auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.
Register of
members
Fund of the
Corporation
Accounts and
Auditing
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Ministry of Buddha Sasana and Religious Affairs and to
the Registrar of Voluntary Social Services Organizations
appointed under the Voluntary Social Services
Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of
1980 before the expiration of six months of the year
succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and
local monies received by the Corporation during the financial
year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the hereby constituted
Corporation and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the foundation on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Corporation shall be able and capable in law to take and
hold any property, movable or immovable, which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act
and subject to the rules of the Corporation made under
section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.
14. The  moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the
Corporation.
Annual
Report
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
5
10
15
20
25
30
30
Application
of moneys
and property.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
15. (1) The Seal of the  Corporation shall not affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decide by such Board.
16. (1) If upon dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rules
thereof,  prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its members.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution
Seal of the
Corporation
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sathya Sri Ghanapathi Bhakthi Jana Sewa
 Foundation (Incorporation)
Department of Government Printing