

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2306$46 - 2022 fkdjeïn¾ ui 17 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'11'17
No. 2306/46 -  thursday,   November  17 ,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6051 - 106 (11/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NOTICE   Of  ThE  ESTAbLIShmENT   Of  ONE  STOP  UNIT  fOR  DEvELOPmENT   APPROvALS  fOR 
ThE  AREAS   DECLARED   UNDER   SECTION   3(1)  Of  ThE  URbAN   DEvELOPmENT   AUThORITY  
LAw,  No.  41  Of  1978
NotICe is hereby given to the General Public of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka under the statutory provisions 
of the urban development authority Law, No. 41 of 1978 that I, Prasanna ranathunga, minister of urban development 
& housing by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 21(1)  of the urban development authority Law, No. 41 of 
1978, have approved the establishment of a one stop unit under section 5(1) for all such areas declared by the minister 
under section 3(1) as ‘urban development areas’ for the purpose of expediting the development approval process.
1. establishment of the one stop unit 
the one stop unit will be established as per section 5(1) of the urban development authority 
Law No. 41 of 1978, and the one stop unit will consist of two committees namely the scope 
Committee and the Planning Committee.
2. the one stop unit shall have the following powers to process functions; 
i. to receive, process, evaluate, obtain processing fees and issue approvals for 
the applications of any development activity within declared areas of the urban 
development authority.
ii. to apply for approvals/ clearances from other stakeholder institutions on behalf of 
the applicant or developer.
2. Powers & 
Functions of 
the One Stop 
Unit

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.11.2022
2a
 iii. t o establish the scope Committee of the one stop unit with the nominees of 
the relevant stakeholder institutions and the officials of the Urban Development 
authority and conduct the scope Committee meetings.
 iv. To establish the Planning Committee of the One Stop Unit consisting of officials 
of the urban development authority and conduct the Planning Committee 
meetings.
 v. t o decide on stakeholder institutions that shall represent the scope Committee 
and Planning Committee.
 vi. t o develop and update unique application procedures, procedure of processing the 
application and processing fees for the one stop unit to expedite the processing 
of applications for development approvals with the purpose of promoting 
investments. 
 vii. t o allow any institution to process the applications and issue approvals, clearances 
or recommendations within the minimum time period which is specified by its’ 
relevant law after informing the applicable time frame to the scope Committee. 
 viii. In the absence of such relevant law as mentioned above in section 2 (vii) in this 
Gazette, every institution shall be processed their application, to grant approval, 
clearances and recommendation within 14 working days or the time period which 
is decided at the scope Committee. 
 ix. If in any event, a relevant institution fails to process the development application 
within the time frame mentioned hereinbefore under sections 2 (vii) and 2 (viii), 
to grant a collaborative recommendation by the scope Committee, if the applicant 
has met all other requirements of the development activity and to forward such 
application to the Planning Committee for final approval, upon receipt of all 
relevant approvals and clearances from respective institutions. 
 x. t o delegate powers to the Planning Committee established under the section 
2 (iv) to conduct and make final decisions of the Environmental Consultation 
Committee (ECC) and Traffic Impact Assessment Committee (TIA) in respect 
of applications submitted to the one stop unit. 
 xi. t o reject development applications at any time if false information or documents 
are submitted by the applicant.
the scope Committee shall be represented by the following institutions;
3.1 urban development authority
3.2 other stakeholder Institutions
I. Central environment authority
II. National Water supply and drainage board
III. Ceylon electricity board
Iv. Lanka electricity Company (Pvt) Ltd
v. sri Lanka Land development Corporation
vI. board of Investment of sri Lanka
vII. Geological survey and mines bureau
3. The 
Stakeholder 
institutes 
represented 
by the Scope 
Committee

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.11.2022
3a
vIII. sri Lanka Parliament 
IX. road development authority 
X. department of agrarian development
XI. department of Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management
XII. sri Lanka tourism development authority
XIII. National building research organization
XIv. sri Lanka railway department 
Xv. Civil aviation authority
XvI. department of archaeology
XvII. Condominium management authority
XvIII. tea, rubber and Coconut estate (Control of Fragmentation) board
XIX. department of Forest Conservation
XX. department of Irrigation
XXI. ministry of defence
XXII. Waste management authority – Western Province
XXIII. mahaweli authority of sri Lanka
XXIv. Labor department
XXv. department of Wildlife Conservation
XXvI. Traffic Police Head Quarters
3.3 representatives from all Local authorities within uda declared areas for following 
disciplines;
I. City Planning division
II. drainage and Water supply division
III. solid Waste management division
Iv. assessor's department
v. Fire service department
vI. Traffic Design & Road Safety Division
4.1 the scope Committee of the one stop unit shall consist of;
i. Committee members
a. Committee’s Chairman:  Chairman of the urban development authority 
or a nominated official designated as Director General or Deputy Director 
General (Planning) to carry out the functions specified by him. 
b. director General,uda
c. deputy director General (Planning), uda
d. Convener: deputy director (Planning) or assistant director (Planning), 
uda
e. A nominated official from each institution and the officer who is handling 
the file as a representative of the institution which is more fully described 
in section 3 of this Gazette, as a nomination by the Chairman of the 
scope Committee.
f. director (Planning) of urban development authority and nominated 
officials by Director (Planning) designated as Deputy Director(Planning)/ 
assistant director (Planning) depending on the circumstances of each 
case.
4. Composition 
of the “Scope 
Committee” 
and “Planning 
Committee” 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.11.2022
4a
g. director (Legal) of urban development authority or any nominated 
official by Director (Legal) who is designated as Deputy Director (Legal) 
/ assistant director (Legal).
h. The officers designated as Town Planner or Enforcement Planning Officer 
or equivalent post at the middle management Level.
ii. Invited members
a. Officers from other divisions of the Urban Development Authority 
nominated by the Chairman of the scope Committee depending on the 
circumstances of each case. 
iii. Invitees who are not members of the committee 
a. applicant/ developer (If required)
b. Qualified persons (If required)
4.2 the Planning Committee of the one stop unit shall consist of;
a. Committee’s Chairman: Chairman of the urban development authority 
or a nominated official designated as Director General or Deputy Director 
General (Planning) to carry out the functions specified by him. 
b. director General, uda
c. deputy director General (Planning),uda
d. Convener: deputy director (Planning) or assistant director (Planning), 
uda
e. director (Planning) of urban development authority and nominated 
officials by Director (Planning) designated as Deputy Director (Planning) 
/ assistant director (Planning) depending on the circumstances of each 
case.
f. director (Legal) of urban development authority or any nominated 
official by Director (Legal) who is designated as Deputy Director (Legal) 
/ assistant director (Legal)
g. The officers designated as Town Planner or Enforcement Planning Officer 
or officers equivalent post at the Middle Management Level.
5.1 Written nominations shall be submitted by the head of the stakeholder Institution mentioned 
hereinbefore at section 3, in respect of a nominee for representing and making decisions on 
behalf of the respective institution.
5. Nomination to 
and  
resignation  
from  
membership 
of the “Scope 
Committee” 
of relevant 
stakeholder 
institutes 
5.2 the nominees appointed by head of the stakeholder Institution, shall resign from their representations 
in the one stop unit, by submitting their intention to resign in written to the Chairman of the scope 
Committee prior to two weeks from the date of such resignation and shall submit the new nomination 
in lieu of such resignation together with such resignation letter. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.11.2022
5a
PrINted at the dePartmeNt oF GoverNmeNt PrINtING,  srI LaNKa.
6.1 The applicable processing fees for development applications are as follows.
Type of Development 
Applications
Initial fee Processing fee
Preliminary Planning 
Clearance
 rs. 10,000.00 
3.5 times of the processing 
fees of Gazette number 
2235/54 on 2021.07.08 + The 
government approved taxes.
Land subdivision application  rs. 10,000.00
building application rs. 20,000.00
amendment rs. 20,000.00
Certificate of Conformity rs. 10,000.00
renewals rs. 10,000.00
6.2 Initial fee shall be deducted from total processing fee and it shall be charged at the receipt of the 
application. 
6.3 When processing applications, Rs. 1,000/- will be charged as fixed transport charges and Rs.100/- 
for each additional Kilometer. (the amount charged per Kilometer will be subject to change from 
time to time.)
    
6. Processing 
fee for 
development 
applications
 
 Prasanna  Ranatunga (M.P), 
 ministry of urban development & housing.
ministry of urban development & housing, 
17
th and 18th Floor, 
“suhurupaya”, 
subuthipura road, 
battaramulla,
15th November, 2022.
eoG 11-0180