

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  27.11.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2047$7 - 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 27 jeks i÷od - 2017'11'27
No. 2047/7 -  MONDAY  NOVEMBER 27,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial Councils Notifications
 SABARAGAMUWA    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Rural Development Statute No. 15 of  2017 of  the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
Honourable Chairman of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council  certified on 01.11.2017.
Honourable Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council  assented on 14.11.2017.
Printed by order of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI LANKA.
 RURAL DEVELOPMENT STATUTE NO. 15 OF 2017 OF  THE SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
RURAL Development Statute No. 15 of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council whicn is passed by the Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Council on 27.06.2017 and assented by the Honourable Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Province on 14.11.2017, is
hereby published for the information of the public.
                                                                                                                                                                    P. S. R. M. WIJAYARAJA,
                                                                                                                                                                       Council Secretary,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
At the Sabaragamuwa Provincial  Council,
22nd day of November, 2017.
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A PG 3784 — 12 (11/2017)


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  27.11.2017
2 A
RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  CHARTER  NO  15  OF  2017  OF  SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL
Ministry of Social Welfare, Probation and Child Care Rural Development and Rural
Industries
A charter for laying regulations for registration and supervision of rural development organizations,
training of community leadership and conducting training centers, establishment of rural zones,
establishment of rural authority, establishment of district and provincial authority of Sabaragamuwa
Province and the consequential factors in connection with it.
Be it therefore enacted by Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka as follows:
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Rural Development Charter No 5 of  2006 shall be repel and abrogate with
the enactment of this Charter.
1. This Charter may be cited as the Rural Development Charter No. 15 of 2017 of  Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council and the effective date shall be the date on which the Provincial Governer approves the charter by
setting his seal.
2. To establish, register, conduct and supervise the Rural Development Societies for economic, social,
cultural, educational and spiritual development with the participation of  the public within the authoritative
area of the Provincial Council.
a) Allow the community to be empowered themselves.
b) Training community leaderships.
c) To brighten the socio - economic condition of the rural women by displaying their
inborn skills through women development centers
d) Making the rural youths changing actors for introduction and establishment of new development
rules and regulations.
e) To direct the societies to monitor the societies according to participatory development approach
and making aware on the development rules and regulations of the Provincial Council.
f) To empower the rural development societies to build a pious society.
g) To development the dignity of the Rural Development Societies by holding performance
competitions.
h) As a whole guidance for the development of vocational skills of the community under the authority
of rural development organization, to provide vocational trainings and to engage in self -
employments.
3. a) Secretary of the Ministry of Rural development shall be the chief authority on this Charter.
b) A Director from Sri Lanka Administrative Service class II for the assistance of the Secretary of the
Ministry and an Assistant Director for two districts on the seniority of Rural Development
Officers' Service shall be appointed.
c) Two Rural Development Officers shall be appointed for Rathnapura and Kegalle two districts on
the seniority for the assistance to Director of  Rural Development and a Head Quarters rural
development Officer shall be appointed for preparation of projects in the province, monitoring
and evaluation.
Rural
Development
Charter No 5 of
2006 shall be
repel and
abrogate
Short title &
date of
operation
Objectives &
Functions
Organizational
Structure

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 17'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  27.11.2017
d) Rural Development Officers shall be appointed in order to assist District Officers, for each Divisional
Secretary's Division.
e) Sewing Instructors shall be appointed for conducting women development centers covering
every divisional secretary's division.
4. a) All the Rural Development Societies shall be Reregistered in Provincial Ministry of Rural
Development  with the reformations within 3 months since the day this charter comes in to effect.
b) Establishment and registration of  new Rural Development Societies shall be done under the rules
of new minute and regulations since the effective date of this Charter.
c) Minutes applicable to Rural Development Societies shall be approved by the Secretary of the
Ministry of Rural development.
d) One Rural Development Committe shall be established for each Divisional Secretary's Division.
e) Two Committees shall be established for Rathnapura district and for Kegalle district.
f) Provincial committee shall be established for the province.
g) Separate funds and accounts shall be maintained for each Divisional Committee and Provincial
Committee.
h) Funds of Divisional Committee and provincial committee shall be made subject to the minute of
that Committee.
5. A) One fund shall be maintained for Sabaragamuwa Province.
The funds shall be consisting of following sources.
I) Allocations of the annual budget of the Provincial Council.
II) Foreign grants given by the government.
III) Donations made by the institutions or person.
IV) The money charged by the income earned by Rural Development Societies from Construction
contracts.
V ) Money earned by Lotteries, shows and other approved ways.
VI) Membership fees, money received by the Performance Competition achievements and
special donations.
B) A committee for the fund consists of 07 persons shall be appointed by the Subject Minister for
this task. As the members of the committee.
I) Secretary of the Ministry
II) Provincial Director of Rural Development
III) Five persons shall be appointed, two on the recommendation of Subject Minister of the
Rural Development and three on the recommendations of the Financial Minister and the
cabinet (This five shall be public officials or educated persons about the subject)
IV) The Secretary of the Rural Development Ministry shall be the Chairman of the committee
on the official capacity.
C) The quorum at least shall be three
D) This fund shall be subject to the audit under section 154 of the Constitution.
Reformation of
Rural
Development
Societies
Funds

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  27.11.2017
4 A
6. A) To assist for implementation of community leadership development programme.
B) To  appraise  Projects done  productively  with  community  participation,  Organizations   and
community  leaders each year in Divisional, District  and  Provincial  level  and  gift  them  with
monitory gifts or ceremonials.
C) To assist, implement and introduce the fields of assistance to timely development.
D) To introduce and assist for the implementation of productivity projects for the economical,
religious, social and good conduct development.
7. A) Solutions and decisions on the disputes of the Rural Development Societies shall be made by the
Secretary in charge of the subject.
B) A person or organization that unsatisfied with the decision may appeal to the Subject Minister.
Final decision on the dispute shall be on the consent of the Subject Minister.
8. Orders for the related tasks of this Charter shall be enacted by the Minister and the approval shall  be
grant by the Provincial Council.
9. A) Title of all the buildings built by Provincial Council Fund shall be to Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council and only the guardianship shall be to the registered Rual Development societies.
B) Title of other stable and unstable properties of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council is belong to
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and guardianship shall be to relevant Rural Development Society .
C) Prior approval shall be obtained by the Secretary of the Ministry in any task such as break and
remove, new construction or changing the structure in any property belong to Rural Development
Societies.
D) A property of  Rural Development Societies may allow for a work out of Rural Development
Societies, Charging or not shall be decided on a decision of general meeting.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Charter, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
12 - 322
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Enactment of
Orders &
Regulations