

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
271
271
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st October, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
17th October, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 272
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"884- 2014 Tlaf;dan¾ 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'10'10
No. 1,884 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 10,  2014
N.B.– (i) Parts I : III and III   of the Gazette  No. 1,883 of 03.10.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
272
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/21090.
Deputy Land  Commissioner's  No.: m<d;a$bfld$
b 1$fmd,a$.=re .ïudk'
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
ITis hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose, Mrs. Gamlath
Ralalage Upali Gamlath has requested on lease a state land containing
in extent about Ha. 0.050 out of extent marked Lot 31 as depicted
in the in Plan No. uq'ms'l=1480 and situated in the village of Kuleepitiya
belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division of No. 940, Keleepitiya
coming within the area of authority of Polgahawela Divisional
Secretariat in the District of Kurunegala.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by : uq'ms'l== 1480 Lot No. 07 ;
On the East by : uq'ms'l= 1480 Lot Nol 32 ;
On the South by : Polpitiya Faddy field @ Land ;
On the West by : uq'ms'l= 1480 Lot No. 30.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for he necessary
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government Approved conditions and the
following conditions.
(a) Terms of the lease.- Thirty Years (30) (15.06.1995 on
wards) ;
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/38148.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: b$7$osn$ueos$383 386'
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that for the Educational Activities, Madirigiriya
Professional training Centre has requested on lease a state land
containing in extent about  0.2024 Hec. Out of extent Marked Lot
No. 405 as depicted in the tracing of m. 120041 and situated in the
village of Kawdulu Wewa 1 Piyawara which belongs to the Grama
Niladhari Division of No. 115, Mandalagiriya coming within the
area of authority of Madirigiriya Divisional Secretariat in the District
of Polonnaruwa.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for he necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government Approved conditions and the
following conditions.
(a) Terms of the lease.- Thirty Years (30) (from 12.02.2014 on
wards) ;
The annual amount of the lease.- 1/2% of the undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the chief valuer for the
year 2014 ;
Penalty .- Trebble 1/2% of the developed value of the land.
(b) The lessese must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes other
than for the residential purpose ;
(d) This lease must also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary, and by other institutions ;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once tha land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum
period of 05 years from 12.02.2014
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse ;
(i) House conditions activities must be completed within the
time  frame specified in alienating land for  house condition
purposes and the failure to do so will be deemed as a lapse
of the long-term lease bond and the land will have to be re-
vested in the Government;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
D. T. M. J
AYA THILAKA,
Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,"Mihikatha Madura",
Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
22nd September 2014.
10 - 459

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
273
(b) The annual rent of the lease.-  4% of the undeveloped value
of the land as per valuation of the chief valuer for the year
1995 ;
Penalty :- Treble 4% of the developed value ofthe land
(c) The lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the residential purpose ;
(e) This lease must also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary, and by other institutions ;
(f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of lessees to substantiate within the specified time
frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, action
will be taken to terminate the lease ‘
(h) Permission will not be given for any other sub-leasing or
transfer, other than transferrring within the family or sub-
leasing or transferring to accomplish the purpose of this
lease Bond until the expiry of 05 years from 08.11.2013/A
grant could claimed for this lease bond after the expiry of
05 years from 08.11.2013 ;
(i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse ;
(j) House construction activities must be completed within
the time  frame specified in alienating lands for  house
construction purposes and the failure to do so will be
deemed as a lapse of the long-term lease bond and the land
will have to be re-vested in the Government;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
S. A. K
ALANI M. DANASEKARA,
Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,"Mihikatha Medura", Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
22nd Spetember 2014.
10 - 461
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.