

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3284 
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 3274
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"143 – 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'09'27
No. 2,143 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 27, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th october, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th october, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3271 - b 81563- 5,403 (09/2019)


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3272
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3273
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3274
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
KEGaLLE  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the posts of Registrar of births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
28th october, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 09th september, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kegalle Warakapola Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/General) 
in beligal Koralaya division and birth and deaths 
of Keeraweli East division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Kegalle.
09–993

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3275
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
GaLLE  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out 
in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
28th october, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 09th september, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Galle akmeemana Post of muslim marriage Registrar of 
Galle district division of Haliwala area
district secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district secretariat, Galle
09–994

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3276
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Recruitment of bachelor of Education Graduates 
to Grade II of Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service for Sinhala and Tamil medium vacancies 
existing in Special Education units of Provincial 
Schools Islandwide - 2019
aPPLicatioNs are being called from eligible male and 
female bachelor of Education graduates, to be recruited 
to Grade ii of class 2 of the sri Lanka teachers’ service 
to fill the Sinhala and Tamil Medium vacancies existing in 
special Education Units of Provincial schools islandwide. 
Eligible applicants should submit applications prepared 
according to the specimen given at the end of the notice to 
reach “assistant secretary, teacher Establishment branch, 
ministry of Education, isurupaya, Pelawatta, battaramulla” 
on or before 31.10.2019 under registered post. furthermore, 
the title of the application in sinhala applications should be 
used in English language in addition to sinhala language 
while in tamil applications as well, the title should be 
used in English language in addition to tamil language. 
“Recruitment of bachelor of Education Graduates for the 
sinhala and tamil medium Vacancies existing in special 
Education Units in Provincial schools islandwide – 2019” 
should be compulsorily indicated on top left hand corner of 
the envelope. 
Remark 1:- complaints on misplacing or delaying an 
application or a letter in its connection in post will not be 
entertained. the repercussions of delaying applications 
till the closing date should be borne by the applicants 
themselves. furthermore, the receipt of applications will not 
be acknowledged. 
02. method of Recruitment: 
2.1 applicants should face a general interview to 
check whether the qualifications stated in 5.2 
along with the qualifications stated in 5.3 of this 
notification have been fulfilled. the applicants, 
who have not fulfilled the qualifications will be 
rejected at the general interview.  
2.2 applicants, who qualify from the general 
interview will be subjected to a practical test 
in terms of Section 9.2 of this notification to 
evaluate teaching learning skills  required for 
the profession. Recruitments will be made based 
on schools according to the number of vacancies 
upon the priority of total marks obtained by the 
applicant at the practical test. 
2.3 the vacancy list will be exhibited to the applicants 
at the practical test. accordingly, the applicants 
should indicate the order of their selection from 
the list of vacancies at the interview itself. 
Remark 2:- When more than one applicant have 
applied for the same school, the eligible 
applicant will be selected upon a specific 
marking scheme approved by the secretary 
to the ministry of Education. 
2.4   since recruitments for these vacancies are made 
based on schools, transfers will not be given 
before a period of 05 years. 
2.5. Existing vacancies :
Province Sinhala 
medium
Tamil 
medium
Western √ √
central √ √
southern √ √
Northern - √
Eastern √ √
North Western √ √
North central √ √
sabaragamuwa √ √
Uva √ √
03. Service Conditions:
 (i) this post is permanent. the pension scheme 
entitled for this post will be subjected to policy 
decisions made by the government in future.  
 (ii) The officers appointed to this post will be 
subjected to a probation period of three (03) 
years and they should pass the first Efficiency 
bar Examination within the aforesaid period of 
three (03) years. 
 (iii) Should obtain proficiency in official language 
in terms of the Public administration circular 
01/2014 and other circulars incidental thereto.  
 (iv) this appointment will be subjected to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission, Establishment code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3277
financial Rules of the government and other 
departmental Rules. 
 (v) this appointment will be subjected to the 
provisions of the service minute of the sri 
Lanka teachers’ service published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 1885/38 of 
23.10.2014, the first amendment to the Service 
minute of the sri Lanka teachers’ service 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 
2120/2 of 22.04.2019 and any future amendment 
made thereto as well as the general conditions 
related to public service appointments. 
 (vi) furthermore, an appointee under this scheme 
unless receives a promotion (i.e. Principals’ 
service, Education administrative service, 
teacher Educators’ service) should engage 
specifically in special education or inclusive 
education.  
04. Salary Scale.– in terms of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016, this post is entitled to G-E-02-2016 
with a salary scale (monthly) of Rs. 33,300-495x5-680x5-
825x7-1,335x20- Rs.71,650/-. they will be placed in step 
3 of this salary scale at Rs. 34,290/-. salaries will be paid 
in accordance with the provisions in schedule ii of the 
above circular. in addition you will be entitled to any other 
allowance granted to public officers from time to time by 
the government. 
05. Educational Qualifications :
 5.1 Should have fulfilled following qualifications 
in terms of the service minute of the sri Lanka 
teachers service and the cabinet decision                   
No. cP/19/0117/127/003 dated 29.01.2019 as at 
31.10.2019. 
 5.2 a bachelor of Education (special Education) 
degree obtained from a University recognized 
by the University Grants commission or a 
degree awarding institution recognized by the 
University Grants commission
and
 5.3 in terms of the provisions in the service minute 
of the sri Lanka teachers service, p assing 
sinhala Language or tamil Language as a subject 
at  G. c. E. (o/L) Examination.    
Remark 3:- Applicants who have qualified from 
examinations recognized as equal to local G. 
c. E. (o/L) by the commissioner General of 
Examinations may also apply. 
06. Age Limit:- should be over 18 years of age and 
have not exceeded the age of 45 years at the closing date of 
applications.  
(“accordingly, only the applicants with the date of birth 
on or before 31.10.2001 and on or after 31.10.1974 will be 
eligible for applying.”)
07. Other Requirements:
 (i) applicants should be sri Lankan citizens. 
 (ii) applicants should be of exemplary character. 
 (iii) Should have fulfilled all qualifications required 
for the post as at closing date of applications 
stated in this notification. 
 (iv)  Should be physically and mentally fit to serve 
in any part of sri Lanka. 
08. method of Applying:
 8.1 application should be in accordance with 
the specimen attached to this notification and 
should be prepared using both sides of an a4 
paper and should be filled by the applicant 
himself. The application should be specifically 
so as 1.0 to 4.6 to be in page one and from 
5.0 onwards on the other side. applications 
prepared not in accordance with the specimen 
application as well as incomplete applications 
will be rejected without notice. (Keeping a 
photo copy of the application will be of use.) 
the applicant should inquire as to whether the 
application is in accordance with the specimen 
application given in the Gazette Notification. 
otherwise, the application will be rejected. 
 8.2 one applicant shall submit only one 
application. 
 8.3 Signature of the applicant should be certified. 
the signature of an applicant applying through 
an institution should be certified by the Head 
of the institution or an authorized officer while 
the signature of any other applicant should 
be certified by a Principal of a Government 
school, a Grama Niladhari of the division, a 
Justice of Peace, commissioner for oaths, an 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3278
Attorney-at-Law, a Public Notary, a Commissioned Officer of Tri Forces or a permanent Staff Grade Officer 
in public service or provincial service drawing  an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240, 360/- or over or a 
chief Prelate or a Nayaka thero of a buddhist temple or a reverend clergy in-charge of any other religious 
institution. 
 8.4 the language medium applied for the vacancy will never be changed and any appeal in this relation will not 
be considered. 
 8.5 applications not in accordance with the specimen application as well as incomplete applications will be 
rejected. 
09. Interview :
9.1 General interview  -
 marks will not be awarded at the general interview. 
 Remark 4:    objectives to be achieved -
 To check whether the applicant has fulfilled all quaifications required in the Service Minute and stated in this 
notification or the newspaper advertisement published accordingly and to check physical qualifications. 
9.2 Practical Test  :
 As the practical test, the applicant should make a presentation on an identified topic.  Marks for the presentation 
will be as follows. 
Serial 
No.
marking criteria of the practical test maximum mark minimum pass mark
01 objective and approach 05 02
02 Personality and voice control 05 02
03 clearance in communication 05 02
04 time management 05 02
05 Use of presentation skills 05 02
total marks 25 10
 
Remark 5:-   objectives to be achieved - Evaluate skills of the applicant on the teaching learning process, which 
requires  in the teaching profession. 
 9.2.1  Method of the Practical Test  :
 (i) A duration not less than five (05) minutes will be given for the practical test. 
 (ii) Maximum mark allocated for the practical test will be twenty five marks (25). 
 (iii) in order to  pass the practical test, minimum two (02) marks each should be obtained for each criteria.
 (iv) the evaluation of the practical test will be conducted by an interview board appointed by the secretary 
to the ministry of Education. 
 9.2.2  Objectives of criteria  :
 
 (i) objective and approach.
 (ii) Evaluation of the successful explanation of the objective of the lesson and the approach to the lesson. 
 (iii) Personality and the  voice control. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3279
 (iv) Evaluate overall personality as a 
teacher and the skill to control voice 
in teaching. 
 (v) clarity in communication. 
  Evaluation of the skill to effectively 
communicate facts in the teaching 
learning process.  
 (vi) time management 
  Evaluate the skill to achieve the 
objective within the given time 
frame. 
 (vii) Use of presentation skills. 
  Evaluate the skill to use presentation 
skills to achieve the objective. 
10. Instructions to complete the application: Use only the 
following schedule when completing the application. 
Schedule 01
Language medium Code
sinhala medium 2
tamil medium 3
11. Officers currently engage in government service 
should compulsorily certify section 9.0 and forword the 
application through the respective Head of the department. 
12. applicants who do not participate for the interview 
on the scheduled date will not be considered again. 
13. Furthermore, all certificates should be submitted at 
the interview and no certificate will be accepted later. 
14. the right of decision on any matter not covered by 
this notification as well as the final decision in filling or not 
filling the vacancies completely or partially lies with the 
secretary to the ministry of Education. 
15. in the event of any inconsistency among the sinhala, 
Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala 
medium notification shall prevail.  
 m. N. 
RaNaSiNghe,
 secretary, 
 ministry of Education, isurupaya,  
    
  
Pelawatta, battaramulla.
12th spetember, 2019. 
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN 
MiNiStRy of eduCatioN                   
   (For office use only)
ReCRuitMeNt of baCheloR of eduCatioN gRaduateS to gRade 
ii of ClaSS 2 of the SRi laNka teaCheRS’ SeRViCe foR SiNhala 
aNd taMil MediuM VaCaNCieS exiStiNg iN SpeCial eduCatioN 
uNitS of pRoViNCial SChoolS iSlaNdwide - 2019
1.0.  Use Schedule 01 to fill the code of the language medium 
of the vacancy applied.
    Language medium 
      (Put relevant number in the box)
2.0
 2.1  full Name (in capital letters)  :–––––––––––––.
  (Eg:-amRaKooN mUdiyaNsELaGE 
NamaL HERatH) 
 2.2  Name with the surname first with initials at the end 
  :–––––––––––––.
   (Eg:- HERatH a.m.N.)  
 2.3  full Name (sinhala/tamil)  :–––––––––––––.
3.0 current address (in capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
4.0 
 4.1  N. i. c. No. :
 4.2  telephone No. :
   fixed  :
   
  mobile :
 4.3  marital status:  
   single-1     married-2 
    
  (Put relevant number in the box)
 4.4  date of birth:
       
   y ear :                        month :             date :
 4.5  age as at 31.10.2019:         
   y ears :                 months :                days :
 4.6  Gender:  female-1   male - 0        
   (Put relevant number in the box) 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3280
5.0 Details of educational qualifications :
G. C. E (O/L) Examination G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
year...........                         index No....................... year...........                 index No.............
subjects                  Grade                subjects                 Grade subject                     Grade    
1 6 1
2 7 2
3 8 3
4 9 4
5 10
6.0   Details of higher educational qualifications :
 6.1  degree :–––––––––––––.      
 6.2  University issued :–––––––––––––.
 6.3  date of validity :–––––––––––––.
 6.4  main subjects / subjects studied :–––––––––––––.
 6.5  medium of the degree :–––––––––––––.
      
i do hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and accurate according to my knowledge. i am 
aware that i will be subjected to dismissal from service if revealed of any unsuitability after selection for the post. i will not 
change any particular stated herein afterwards.  
 ––––––––––––––––.
            signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
7.0 Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
i hereby certify that mr. / mrs. / miss ........................................................   submitting this application  is personally 
known to me and he / she has placed his / her signature before me on ......................  
 –––––––––––––––––––,   
   Signature of the attesting officer. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Full name of the attesting officer :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(Affirm with the official stamp)                               
8.0 If the applicant is a government officer, the attestation of the Head of the Department  :
i hereby forward the application of mr. / mrs. / miss. ………............................................................. He / she is a 
permanent / temporary / casual employee of this ministry / department and of he / she is selected to this post, he / she can / 
cannot be released from service. 
 ––––––––––––––––––––,     
 Signature Head of the Department or the authorized officer.
date :–––––––––––––.     
designation :–––––––––––––.         
ministry / department :–––––––––––––.    
(Affirm with the official stamp) 
09–1006

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3281
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Appointment to the Posts in Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from the officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service for appointment to the 
following posts in Grade i of sri Lanka architects’ service.
Department Post Number of vacancies
 
department of buildings senior architect Posts -01
National Physical Planning department director (architecture) Posts -01
02. Qualifications that should be satisfied :
 I. Shall be an officer in Grade 1 of Architects’ Service.
03. Method of appointment to the post.– the appointments will be made to the relevant post conforming to the 
number of vacancies mentioned above taking into consideration the option of the candidate depending on the order of the 
aggregate marks allocated for their experience and merit by way of directing them to a structured interview, conducted by 
an interview board approved by Public service commission, which allocates marks as per the marking scheme mentioned 
below. the effective date of the appointment is determined by the Public service commission.
04. Marking scheme :
Appointment to the post on seniority and merit for the posts in
Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service - Marking scheme
Maximum
marks
Total
marks
01. Experience in the service
(a) service period of one year in Grade i of sri Lanka architects’ service - 05 marks
(b) service period of 06 months in Grade i of sri Lanka architects’ service - 03 marks
(c) service period of 03 months in Grade i of sri Lanka architects’ service - 02 marks
(marks shall not be allocated for a service period of less than 03 months)
65 65
02. Merit - Contribution made to the field of Architecture
02.1 Additional educational qualifications
02.1.1 Postgraduate degree
- PHd - 15 marks
- mPhil - 10 marks
- msc - 05 marks
(Marks shall be allocated strictly for the highest qualification)
02.2 contribution made as an architect with regard to the upliftment of education in 
architecture and the profession
02.2.1  Published papers in journals or conferences/ books
- 03 marks for each publication
Newspapers and articles of magazines
- 01 mark for each publication
02.2.2 for the posts held at a recognized local/ foreign institution in relation to architecture
- 02 marks for each post held by the officer
- (Written confirmations should be submitted)
02.2.3 for commendations
- 01 mark for each letter of commendation issued by the Head of the institution 
through form General 230b.
15
06
06
03
30

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3282
Appointment to the post on seniority and merit for the posts in
Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service - Marking scheme
Maximum
marks
Total
marks
03. merit proved at the interview
(a) Leadership - 02 marks
(b) communication skills - 02 marks
(c) Personality -  01 mark
05
Total marks 100
N. b.
i. marks shall not be allocated again for the Post Graduate degree considered for promotion to Grade i of sri 
Lanka architects’ service when allocating marks
ii. Written confirmations should be submitted for all the publications presented for obtaining marks under 2.2.1 
and 2.2.2.
05. application perfected in accordance with the following format should be sent along with the recommendation of 
the Head of the department by registered post to reach “secretary, ministry of Public administration, disaster management 
and Livestock development” on or before 28
th october 2019. the words “appointment to the posts in Grade i of sri 
Lanka architects’ service” should be clearly written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is 
enclosed. No application received after the said date shall be accepted and complaints on applications getting lost or delayed 
in the post shall not be considered.
06. application can also be obtained through www.pubad.gov.lk.  
 
on the order of Public service commission,
 J.J. RathNaSiRi,    
 secretary,
 ministry of Public administration, disaster  
 management and Livestock development.
10th september, 2019.
aPPLicatioN foR fiLLiNG tHE V acaNciEs iN GRadE i of sRi LaNKa aRcHitEcts’ sERVicE 
oN tHE EXPERiENcE iN sERVicE aNd mERit of tHE officERs iN GRadE i of sRi LaNKa 
aRcHitEcts’ sERVicE
paRt i — Should be peRfeCted by the offiCeR hiMSelf
 1. Full name of the officer (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 2. Name of the officer with initials at the end (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
 3. Full name of the officer (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
 4. sex :    female     male
 5. date of birth :  year  :                  month :              date :
 6. National identity card Number :
 7. Present service station  :–––––––––––––. 
 8.   (i)  Permanent address in English block capitals (Letter is sent to this address)  :–––––––––––––.
    (ii) telephone number

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3283
 9. (i)  date on which you have been appointed to Grade i of sri Lanka architects’ service  :–––––––––––––.
  (ii)  service period from the date on which you have been appointed to Grade i of sri Lanka architects’ service up to 
date of calling applications  :–––––––––––––.
     y ears :  months :     days :
10. Educational and professional qualifications :
Serial
No.
educational
qualifications
Year in which qualifications were satisfied Institution
1. PHd
2. mPhil
3. msc
4. other
11.  Experience in the service :
  (i)  Publications submitted in relation to the field under 2.2.1 of the marking scheme :–––––––––––––.
   –––––––––––––.
  (ii)  Posts held at recognized local/ foreign institutions in relation to architecture under 2.2.2 of the marking scheme 
:–––––––––––––.
   –––––––––––––.
12.  (i)  Have you obtained no-pay leave or half pay leave since the date of appointment to Grade i of sri Lanka architects’ 
service? :
Serial
No:
Matter Duration
From To
  (ii)  Have you earned all the salary increments in 05 years immediately preceding the closing date of applications?
    y es  No
13.  (i)  Have you been subjected to a disciplinary punishment within the past 05 years? :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) are there any disciplinary inquiries, which have not been concluded ? :–––––––––––––.
14. Posts applied for (indicate No: 1 and 2 on the order of preference) :
  (i) senior architect
  (ii) director (architecture)
15. i hereby declare and certify that the particulars furnished by me are true and correct.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer.
date :–––––––––––––.
paRt ii - ReCoMMeNdatioN aNd CeRtifiCatioN of the head of the depaRtMeNt
delete the parts, which are not applicable.
  (i) any disciplinary action has not been taken or not intended to be taken against this applicant
   (if disciplinary action has been taken, the date of committing the offense: indicate the details on the disciplinary 
action such as the punishment)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3284
  (ii) this applicant has/ has not obtained no-pay or half pay leave after being promoted to Grade i. (if the applicant has 
obtained no-pay or half pay leave, indicate the particulars in the table below) :
Duration Half pay/ no pay leave MatterFrom To
  (iii) The applicant has/ has not earned all the salary increments within the five (05) years immediately preceding the 
date of promotion and completed a satisfactory period of service.
  (iv) Accordingly, I hereby recommend/ do not recommend the application since he/ she has/ has not satisfied the basic 
qualifications required to appear for this interview.
 ––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the department.
date :–––––––––––.
09–878
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION TO 
RECRuIT TO ThE POST Of GRADE III 
buILDING INSPECTORS Of TEChNICAL 
SERvICE CATEGORy - SuPERvISING 
mANAGEmENT ASSISTANT Of ThE POSTAL 
DEPARTmENT- 2018 (2019)
aPPLicatioNs are called from the suitable applicants 
for 08 posts of Grade iii building inspectors of technical 
service category - supervising management assistance of 
the Postal department. this competitive examination will 
be held by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
colombo only. 
It will be the final decision of the Commissioner General 
of Examinations on holding the examination and issuance 
of results.
02. Language Medium : this examination shall be held in 
sinhala, tamil and English medium. candidates will not be 
allowed to change the language medium applied.
03. Qualifications for recruitment :
 (a) Educational qualifications :
  Should have passed the General Certificate 
of Education (ordinary Level) examination 
in six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
Languages or Literature, mathematics, science 
and any another subject at one sitting.
and
  should have passed all the subjects with         
applied mathematics/Pure mathematics/
combined mathematics and Physics (excluding 
Common General Test) at the General Certificate 
of Education (advanced Level) in one sitting 
(Under the old syllabus, it is sufficient to pass 03 
subjects in one sitting.)
 (b) Professional qualifications :
 (i) shall have completed National V ocational 
Qualification (NVQ) level 6 in the relevant 
field ;
  Or
 (ii) National technical diploma offered by 
University of moratuwa or ampara Hardi 
Institute ;
  Or
 (iii)  National diploma in Engineering offered by 
National apprentice and industrial training 
Authority ;
  Or
 (iv) National Higher diploma in Engineering 
offered by ministry of Education and higher 
Education ;
  Or

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3285
 (v) technical diploma offered by the open 
University of Sri Lanka ;
  Or
 (vi) shall have successfully completed the 
first part of the Engineering examination  
conducted by sri Lanka institute of 
Engineering ;
  Or
 (vii) Any other technical qualifications recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission as equivalent to the above 
mentioned technical qualifications, following 
the opinions obtained by consulting the 
ministry of Higher Education and the 
institutes issuing above mentioned technical 
certificates.
 (c) Physical qualifications :
  all the candidates shall have the physical and 
mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka 
and to perform the duties of the post.
 (d) Other qualifications :
 (i) Candidates shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
 (ii) candidates shall have a excellent moral 
character ;
 (iii) All the qualifications mentioned in above 
3 (a) and (b) should be completed in 
every means as at 25.10.2019.
04. Efficiency Bar examination : should be according the 
minutes of sri Lanka technical service
05. Age : shall be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 30 years of age on the closing date of  
applications. (accordingly, only the persons 
whose birthdays fall on or before 25.10.2001 
and on or after 25.10.1989 are qualified to apply for this 
examination.)
06. Salary Scale  : in terms of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016, monthly salary scale is  
Rs. 31,040 -10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730 - 10 x 750 -                  
Rs. 57,550/=
07. Method of Application : 
 (a)  the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and 
should be prepared on a4 (21x30cm) using both 
sides. Headings 01 to 05 should be entered on 
the first page and the rest on second page. The 
relevant particulars should be entered very 
clearly in candidate’s own handwriting. When 
preparing applications, it is required to indicate 
the name of the examination in English also in 
the applications prepared both in sinhala and 
tamil medium. applications can be obtained 
through the official website of the postal 
department, www.slpost.gov.lk. the signature of 
the applicant must have been attested. a person 
applying for the examination through a certain 
institute, must get his/her signature attested by 
the respective head of the institution and the other 
applicants must get their signatures attested by a 
Principal of a Government School/retired officer, 
the Grama Niladhari of the relevant division, a 
Justice of the Peace, a commissioner of oath, a 
Lawyer, a Notary Public, a commissioned officer 
of the Tri- forces, an officer holding a permanent 
staff Grade post in the Public service or in the 
Provincial Public service, a chief incumbent of 
a buddhist temple or a Nayaka thero or a chief 
prelate of any other religious place or a prelate 
holding a considerable level of religious order.
 (b) applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address 
on or before 25.10.2019 commissioner 
General of Examinations, organization and 
foreign Examinations branch, department 
of Examinations, sri Lanka, Po. box 1503, 
colombo. the words “open competitive 
Examination for building inspectors of technical 
service category - supervising management 
assistant - 2018 (2019)” should be written on the 
top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form. Any certificate /photo copy should not be 
sent with the application.
 (c) applicants serving in public service or provincial 
public service should submit their applications 
through the Heads of department.
08.  Paying examination fees :
 (a) Examination fee is Rs. 600/- and this fee can be 
paid to any post/sub post office/ divisional/district 
secretariat under the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examination. 
the receipt obtained thus should be pasted in 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3286
the relevant cage of the application form so 
as not to be detached. it is advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. 
the applications with the receipt obtained by 
paying money as not mentioned this notice 
will be rejected and under no circumstances the 
examination fee will be refunded transferred.
09. Admission to the Examination :
 (a) the commissioner-General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all the candidates 
whose applications are perfected in each and 
every way have been received and meets the age 
limit.
 (b) immediately after the issuance of admission 
cards, a newspaper advertisement will be 
published. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
steps shall be taken to notify the department 
of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. When informing, the name of 
the examination applied for, full name, address 
and the Nic number of the candidate shall be 
indicated. it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the candidate to the 
department of Examinations through the fax 
number mentioning the notification for sending 
a copy of the admission. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt relevant to payment of 
examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information 
requested by the department of Examinations.
 (c) a  candidate must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate must get his signature attested in 
advance and hand over the admission card to the 
supervisor on the first day he presents himself 
for the exam ination. No candidate will not be 
permitted to sit the examination without an 
admission card.
 (d) the issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
 (e) a  candidate shall be required to prove his identity 
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he offers for this 
purpose, any of the following documents shall 
be accepted.
 I. National identity card ;
 II. A valid passport ;
 iii. a  valid driving license.
  candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering their face and ears in order to 
prove their identity. further, any candidate who 
refuses to assist for proving his/her identity will 
not be allowed to enter the examination hall. the 
candidates should remain in the examination 
hall from the time of entering up to leaving the 
examination hall without covering face and ears 
enabling the invigilators to identify the candidate. 
However, a candidate may be allowed to appear 
for the examination if any objection is made by 
such candidate regarding this condition. Results 
will not be issued to such candidate since it is not 
possible to prove the identity of the candidate.
 (f) candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination on conducting the 
examination. they shall be liable to be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by commissioner 
General of Examination for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
10.  Sections and Conditions of Service :
 (a)  this post is permanent and pensionable. 
However, the officers will be subjected to the 
policy decisions taken by the Government with 
regard to the pension scheme in future.
 (b) If selected applicants have not been confirmed in 
a post of public service by that time, appointment 
will be made subject to a three-year probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed in 
a permanent and pensionable post in the Public 
service is selected, he will be appointed subject 
to an acting period of one year.
11.  Scheme of the examination and syllabus :
 (a)  the Examination shall consist of the following 
02 question papers.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3287
 1. General intelligence - duration 01 hour. marks 
100.
  it is expected to assess the logical criticism 
knowledge, correct decision making ability, 
statistical and mathematical problems resolving 
ability, ability in using language phrase, tables, 
pictures, charts, diagrams. all the questions 
should be answered.
 2. subject wise technical test - duration 01 hour. 
marks 100.
  it is expected to assess the dimensions, 
knowledge on plans, foundations, soil types, 
building materials, building structure and 
finishing, estimate through building plans, 
preparing estimates, water supply and sewage 
systems. all the questions should be answered.
 (b) it should be obtained 40% or more marks to 
pass for each question paper.
 (c) Examination results :
  the results shall be communicated to 
all the applicants by the commissioner 
General of Examinations by the web site                                                              
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
12.  Method of Selection :
 (a) Applicants who haven’t the qualifications as per 
the notice as at the closing date of application, 
shall not qualified to get an appointment.
 (b) according to the merit order of total marks of 
the applicants who passed the examination, 
a similar number to the expected number for 
the recruitment are subjected to the interview 
and selected. (marks will not be given for the 
interview and checking of qualifications are only 
made)
13. Furnishing false information : if it is found that any 
candidate is not eligible according to the rules and regulations 
of this examination his/her candidature can be cancelled at 
any time before, during or after the examination. further, if 
it is found that any information furnished by a candidate is 
false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public 
service.
14. The final decision on any matter that does not include 
in this notice rests with the Postmaster General.
15. in case of any inconsistency among sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification 
shall prevail.
 k.a.N.p. kaNdaNaaRaChChi, RaNjith aRiyaRatNe ,
 deputy Postmaster General. Postmaster General.
 (administration).
 
Specimen application form
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN to REcRUit 
to tHE Post of GRadE iii bUiLdiNG
 iNsPEctoRs of tEcHNicaL sERVicE  catEGoRy 
- sUPERVisiNG maNaGEmENt assistaNt of tHE  
PostaL dEPaRtmENt- 2018 (2019)
 
 For office use only
medium of the Examination : 
 sinhala  - 2
 t amil  - 3 
 English  - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
01.  (i)  Name in full :
   in English (block letters):mr./mrs./miss :––––––.
   e.g:- HERatH mUdiyaNsELaGE samaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa 
  (ii) in sinhala/tamil : mr./mrs./miss :––––––––––––.
02.  (i)  address to which admission card should be sent:
   in English (block letters) :––––––––––––.
  (ii)  Permanent address :
   in English (block letters) :––––––––––––.
   in sinhala/t amil :––––––––––––.
  (iii)  Official address :
   in English (block letters) :––––––––––––.
03.  (i) sex:
   male - 0
   female - 1  
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
  (ii) National identity card Number:
04.  (i)  mobile telephone No. :
  (ii)  telephone No. :

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3288
05. (i) date of birth :
  
   y ear :                                   month :          date :
  (ii) age as at the cl osing date of applications (age as at 25.10.2019)
   y ears :                       months :  days :
06.  (i) Educational Qualifications :-
   G.c.E. (o/L) G.c.E. (a/L)
   y ear and month :–––––––––––––. year and month :–––––––––––––.
   held the examination :–––––––––––––. held the examination :–––––––––––––. 
   index No. :–––––––––––––. index No. :–––––––––––––. 
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
1 1
2 2
3 3
4 4
5 5
6
7
8
9
10
 (ii)  Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Diploma/ 
Professional certificate
Time period From - to Number of years Name of the Institute
07. Have you ever been convicted from a court for any charge? if yes, give details on case number and charges :–––––––.  
08. Office to which the examination fee was paid :
 amount paid Rs. :–––––––––––––.
 Receipt number :–––––––––––––.
 date :–––––––––––––. 
Paste the exam receipt here.
(Keep a photocopy of the exam receipt.)
09. declaration of the candidate :
i declare that information given by me in this application is true and accurate. i am aware that if any information 
furnished herein is found to be false or inaccurate I am liable to disqualification before appointment and to dismissal 
from service without any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2019
3289
further, i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of examinations on 
conducting the examination and issuance of results. i will not change any of the information furnished here.
  ––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
10. attestation of applicant’s signature :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss .............................. who submits this application is known to me personally, he/she 
placed his/her signature in my presence on .......................... and further he/she has paid the due examination fee and has 
affixed the receipt.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Officer Attesting the Signature :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp.)
11. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ..............................  who is submitting this application is serving at ....................... 
Office/institute in a post of ................. from ............................... and his/her service is satisfactory and that he/she could/
could not be released from his/her present post, if selected for the position as the results of this examination and he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except warnings) up to now and above mentioned information true and 
correct.
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of Head of department/institute.
date:––––––––––––.
full name of Head of department/institute :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp.)
09–827
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.