

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'20
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.04.2021
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2224$9 - 2021 wfm%a,a ui 20 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2021'04'20
No. 2224/9  -  TUESDAY ,  APRIL   20,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  G 34211 -  45 (04/2021)
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 OF 2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY Virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, as
amended, I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Finance, do by this Notification:
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project to set up a “Dedicated
Textile Manufacturing Zone” (hereinafter referred to as “the zone”) in an area of up to 400 acres of land to be owned
by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as BOI) in Eravur, Batticaloa District to facilitate
investments made by foreign/local textile manufacturers, as a project of national interest to bring economic and
social benefits and also to change the landscape of the Country. The BOI will be the implementing agency facilitated
by the Ministry in charge of the subject of Industries in providing the requisite infrastructure.
(2) Declare that the infrastructure requirement of the zone will be ready within twenty-four (24) months from the date of
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers in terms of Section 3 (3) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No.14 of
2008, as amended (hereinafter referred to as “SDP Act”).
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the SDP Act, the proposed exemptions set out in
the Schedule below to this Notification shall apply to individual enterprises identified by the BOI as falling within
the purview of the Strategic Development Project identified herein and established within the zone, and will be
customized for each said enterprise (hereinafter referred to as “the enterprise”) based on parameters such as size
of investment, type of the product to be manufactured, market orientation, domestic value addition, etc. Individual
enterprises shall be eligible for selected incentives out of the incentives referred in the item numbers (1) to (5) of the
schedule based on the above parameters.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'20
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.04.2021
2A
(4) The incentives referred in the schedule shall be reviewed every five (05) years with effect from the date of
approval of the Parliament for this zone under 3(5) of the SDP Act, as amended and submitted to the Cabinet for
its approval followed by way of a 3(4) gazette notification.
(5) BOI shall grant incentives for each enterprise which will be stipulated in the individual agreement between the BOI
and the enterprise (hereinafter referred to as “BOI Agreement”).
SCHEDULE
(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(a)  Exemption from Corporate Income Tax (CIT)
Following Corporate Income Tax Exemptions/Concessions will be granted for the total income generated by the
enterprise;
Investment (US$ Mn) Minimum No. of Years
Employment Tax Holiday 50%  of concessionary
(Nos.) CIT rate applicable for
exporters at that time
Greater than or equal to 10 150 5 2
and less than 15 (>=10 <15)
Greater than or equal to 15 200 7 2
and less than 20 (>=15 < 20)
Greater than or equal to 20 300 8 3
and less than 25 (>=20 < 25)
Greater than or equal to 25 350 9 4
and less than 30 (>=25 < 30)
Greater than or equal 400 10 5
to 30 (>=30)
The said exemption period shall be reckoned after one and half years (18 months) from the date in which the
enterprise executes the agreement with BOI.
After the expiry of the aforesaid tax holiday and concessionary period, for the income generated through;
(i) Exports including deemed exports, the concessionary Corporate Income Tax (CIT) rate applicable for
exporters at that time shall be applicable.
(ii). Import substitution via other sales to local market, the CIT rate applicable for manufacturers at that time shall
be applicable.
(b) Income Tax on Employment
Up to a maximum number of ten (10) expatriate employees of the enterprise shall be exempted from income tax arising
from gains and profits from employment in the enterprise in the zone for a period of five (05) years.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'20
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.04.2021
3A
(2) Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of V alue Added Tax (V AT) under the Value Added Tax
Act, No. 14 of 2002 and its amendments for the following:
i. Construction related items
On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) or supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system (E.g. Simplified Value Added Tax-SV AT)
administrated by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise during the project
implementation period;
ii. Capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) for the use of both production for export, including deemed
exports, and import substitution via sales to local market
On all Imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) and supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system (E.g. SV A T) administrated by the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise; and
iii. Raw materials and production/process related consumables for both production for export including deemed
exports and import substitution via sales to local market
On all Imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) and supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system (E.g. SV A T) administrated by the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise.
Accordingly, V AT shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by
the enterprise.
(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL)
under the Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011 and its amendments;
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project implementation period;
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas (Customs
or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via sales
to local market; and
iii. On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) of raw materials and production/
process related consumables for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution
via sales to local market.
Accordingly, PAL shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by
the enterprise.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'20
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.04.2021
4A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
(4) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Customs Import Duty (CID) under the Customs
Ordinance (Chapter 235):
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project implementation period;
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas (Customs
or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via sales
to local market; and
iii. On all imports of raw materials and production/process related consumables including purchases from bonded
areas (Customs or BOI) for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via
sales to local market as approved by the BOI excluding the items in the negative list published by the Ministry
of Finance.
However, any importation of items in the negative list shall be considered by the Board of Directors of
BOI, where such items are not available in sufficient quality, quantity and to conform to the time lines of
the project completion.
Accordingly, CID shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by
the enterprise.
(5) Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979.
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payments and charges of Commodity Export Subsidy Scheme- (CESS)
under the Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 and its amendments:
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project Implementation period;
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas (Customs
or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via sales
to local market; and
iii. On all imports of raw materials and production/process related consumables including purchases from bonded
areas (Customs or BOI) for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via
sales to local market.
Accordingly, CESS shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by
the enterprise.
M
AHINDA RAJAPAKSA, M.P.
Minister of Finance.
Ministry of Finance,
Colombo 01,
April 20, 2021.
05- 09