

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2118$42 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2019'04'09
No. 2118/42 -TUESDAY,  APRIL  09,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG 4475 — 10  (04/2019)
  The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
PROVINCIAL COUNCILS NOTIFICA TIONS
SOUTHERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
STATUTE  OF CO-OPERATIVE  EMPLOYEES  PENSION  SCHEME  BEARING  No. 02 OF 2019 UNDER
THE  SOUTHERN   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I,Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Province Water
Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Co-operative Development of Southe rn Province
Provincial Council hereby inform to the General Public that the status of Co-operative Employees Pension Scheme No. 02 of
2019 which had already been approved dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province foll owed by the
Approval made dated 26.03.2019 by the Southern Province Provincial Council is enacted since 01st of April in 2019.
 UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,
Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian, Development, Irrigation, Water Supplying and Drainage,
Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Co-operative Development of
Southern Province Provincial Council
Dated 01st April 2019,
4th Floor, Dakshinapaya, Labuduwa, Galle,
At the Minister's Office, Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
2 A
STATUE  OF  CO-OPERATIVE  EMPLOYEES  PENSION  SCHEME  BEARING  No.  02  OF  2019
UNDER  THE  SOUTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
A Precept to make provision to institute a Pension scheme for the Southern Province Co-operative
employees and to provide for a mechanism for the Co-operative Development Commissioner and the
Registrar to operate that scheme within the Southern Province, and to provide for matters related to
same.
The Southern Province Provincial Council herewith enact
1. This Precept, known as the Precept for Southern Province Co-operative Employee's Pension
Scheme No. 02 of 2018 shall be effective from the date it is sanctioned by the Governor of the
Southern Province.
Section 1
Establishing the Co-operative Employee’s Pension Scheme
2. (i) A pension scheme called the Co-operative Employee’s Pension Scheme is to be instituted
in accordance with the provisions of this Precept.
(ii) This Pension Scheme should be a legitimate corporation with perpetual succession and a
common seal and also that by virtue of its co-operate character could sue and be sued and is
in a position to reason out in Courts and be a legitimate corporation with powers to accomplish
all that is necessary under this Precept.
3.  (i) To administer the Pension scheme, the person holding the post of Southern Province
Co-operative Development Commissioner at the current time should be the Director of the
Pension Scheme.
(ii) The Director of the Scheme is responsible for supervision, control and administration of the
activities of the scheme.
(iii) In order to offer counsel and recommendations to the Director on all matters of control and
administration, an Advisory executive committee as mentioned below, comprising of seven
persons should be present. Of these persons the Minister should appoint members as per
clauses (f) and (g ) under article 3(iV) and the Co-operative Development Commissioner
should appoint members as per clause(e) of the article.
(iv) As members of the Advisory Committee,
(a) Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Co-operative.
(b) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Southern Province
(c) Commissioner General of Labour or an Executive Officer of the department
nominated by him.
(d) Secretary to the Corporative Employees Commission of the Southern Provincial
Council
Instituting the
Crop.
Employee's
Pension Scheme.
Director's role.
Appointing
Director.
Advisory
Executive
Committee.
Composition of
the Advisory
Committee.
Concise name
and the date
effective.
A Corporation
with legal
Character.

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
Staff of the
Scheme
(e) A Director or a General Manager representing Co-operative Rural Banking Societies
of Hambantota, Galle and Matara districts in the Southern Province.
(f) Chairman of a co-operative society in the Southern Province with service experience
not less than five years and who has not been found guilty of an offense at a
legitimate inquiry.
(g) An employee of a co-operative society in the Southern Province with service
experience not less than twenty years, currently in service or retired and who has
not been found guilty of an offense at a legitimate inquiry.
(v) As may be decided by the Advisory Committee, the staff required to run the Pension
scheme could be deployed from the officers engaged in the service of the Southern Provincial
Council.
 4 (i) (a) The period of office of the Advisory committee members described
in clauses(a),  (b), (d), (e) of article 3(1V) of the Precept should be limited
to the period they hold  such office.
(b) The period of office of the Advisory committee member described in
clauses(c) of article 3(1V) of the Precept, when the committee member is the
Commissioner General of Labour himself/herself, should be limited to the
period of holding such office. If an executive officer of the department is
being nominated by the Commissioner General of Labour as the member of
the committee, that officer’s period of office shall be three years unless
death or resignation creates a vacancy. However, if the Commissioner General
of Labour appoints an alternative officer, by that act the office of the first
officer will cease to exist.
(c) The period of office of the Advisory committee members described in clauses
(f) & (g) of article 3(1V) of the Precept should be limited to period of three
years unless death or their resignation addressed to the Minister cease their
office.
(ii) If the Advisory committee members described in clauses (f) & (g) of article 3(iv) of the Precept
vacates his/her office as above, a replacement should be made as per clause 3(iii) and that
replacing officer will function for the balance period of the officer he/she replaced.
(iii) If it is revealed that a Particular Advisory Committee member is unable to attend to his duties
due to sickness or being overseas, the Minister may appoint the officer who otherwise
covers his duties to the Advisory committee in his/her place.
(iv) A member who leaves office of the Advisory Committee is entitled to be re­appointed to
office unless that member had been removed from office,
(v) If a member of the advisory committee, appointed in terms of clause (e) of article 3(iv) of the
Precept, fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the committee, the Co-o perative
Development Commissioner may appoint an alternative member in terms of the said article
and that member so appointed should serve the balance period of office of the member he/she
substituted.
(vi) If a member appointed to the Advisory committee as per clauses (f) & (g) of article 3(iv)
absents himself/herself from three consecutive meetings of the committee, the Advisory
committee should report that fact to the Minister.
Qualifications of
Advisory
Committee
members and their
period in office.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
4 A
5. The Advisory committee may use, all or any, of the following powers listed below.
(i) Formulate policies to implement this scheme.
(ii) Counsel the Director on matters related to management, operation and
implementation of the scheme.
(iii) Monitoring and appraising the activities of the scheme
6. (i)  The Secretary to the Minister in charge of the subject of Co-operative is the chairman of
the Advisory Executive Committee and he / she should chair all the meetings of the
Committee.
(ii) The Director is the secretary to the Advisory Committee. He/ She should call all the meetings
of the committee and conduct the meetings in such a way, so as to achieve the objectives
set out in the Precept.
(iii) When a vacancy or vacancies exist in the Advisory Committee, that fact should not be a
reason for the decisions taken at the meetings to be invalid.
(iv) The quorum  for the meetings of the advisory committee should be four members
7. The members of the Advisory committee may be paid a stipend for attending the meetings
of the committee; an amount determined by the Minister in charge of Co-oporative in
concurrence with the Minister of Finance of the Southern Provincial Council.
Section 2
Implementing the Co-operative Employee's Pension Scheme
8. A Co-operative employee, who joined the service before the effective date of this Precept,
employed up to this date, and not less than 18 years of age and up to 60 years of age,
with a permanent appointment, is entitled to join this scheme.
9. The employees who join the permanent service of the Co-oporative employment from
the date this Precept comes into effect are essentially  required to join this scheme.
10. (i) A Co-oporative Society employee who joins this scheme (hereinafter known as a
contributor) is entitle to the following benefits under this scheme on a basis determined
by directives.
(a) A pension salary stipulated on periods of time
(b) A Death gratuity here in after named Gratuity, stipulated based on periods of time
(ii) The basis for determining the payment of Pension salary and Death Gratuity should
take into consideration the period of contribution, the age of the contributor and the
quantum of the contribution made by the contributor.
11. (i)   The contributor should be entitled to the Pension salary upon completing 60 years of age.
However, even though a contributor who has commenced his contribution has completed
making his/her stipulated contribution, the entitlement to the pension salary will commence
only after one year from the date of approval of the scheme.
The role of the
Advisory
Committee
Meetings of the
Advisory
Committee
Vacancy/
Vacancies
Qualifications
to join the
scheme
Mandatory to be
a Contributor
Benefits of the
Scheme
Instances where
pensions should
be paid
Stipend of the
Advisory
Committee
Quorum

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
(ii) whatever the date of the month on which the contributor dies, the pension salary shall be
paid for the full month.
12. In the event where the 12.contributor dies before he/she becomes entitled to receive his/
her pension salary, a stipulated Death gratuity will be paid to the dependents survived, on
the basis of directives.
13 (1) If a contributor, before he/she becomes entitle to receive a pension salary, has been found
to have caused a financial loss to the employer, the co-operative society, by a legitimate
investigation, such contributor will not be entitled to any pension salary or a gratuity
under this Precept. However, having compensated the said financial loss caused by him/
her, the contributor will entitle himself/herself to continue with the scheme as per the
directives issued and as per the provisions of article 14 of this Precept.
(ii) (a) In the event where a contributor, at the time of his/her retirement from services is subjec t
to an investigation on account of a financial loss caused to the employer, the corporative
society, the Director shall have the authority to withhold temporarily, any payment on
account of the Pension scheme to that contributor, until the investigation is brought to a
conclusion.
(b) If the investigation as per 13 (ii) (a) is taking more than three months, the
contributor may be paid half, or less of the pension salary, with the approval
of the Advisory committee, without prejudice to the investigation underway.
(c) If the contributor is found not guilty at the investigation held as per 13 (ii)
(a) above, the contributor is entitled to receive his pension salary effective
from the date he/she retired.
14 (1). At the time a Co-oporative employee is enlisted as a contributor to the scheme, the Director
should issue a certificate containing;
(a) the amount payable by the contributor as the contribution
(b) the amount payable by the co-operative society as its contribution
(c) the directions and conditions of the certificate
(d) the benefits receivable by the contributor as per the certificate issued to the
contributor.
(ii) If a contributor has failed to make his contribution, due on a particular Day, three
times, consecutively or from time to time, that member shall disown benefits he is
said to be entitled to, as per the certificate issued.
(iii) In a situation where a member (contributor) is to lose the benefits he/she is said to
be entitled as per the certificate issued, the Director should communicate that to the
member concerned by a notice.
(iv) The contributor should have the right to have system to make an appeal to the
Director to revalidate a certificate as per the directives prescribed, and when the
reason of delay for paying the installments is beyond the contributors control and if
the Director is satisfied as to that fact, the Director may revalidate the certificate.
(v) When the Director decides to revalidate a certificate, the contributor should be
informed of the date before which the installments should be paid and if the contributor
Death Gratuity.
Non-entitlement
to the Pension
Salary
The Director
should issue
certificates  to
each & every
member.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
6 A
fails to pay the installments as stipulated, the particular certificate of the contributor
may be treated as canceled.
15. The contributors or the Pension Scheme should pay the contribution monies of this scheme
as per the stipulations prescribed by the directives. The contributions made by the
contributors to this scheme, employed in co-oporative societies, should be transferred to
the Scheme by the co-oporative society. The date on which the contributions are stipulated
to be paid as per the directives should be particularly notified and if a co-oporative society
is not making the payment on that stipulated day that society should be subjected to a fine
as per the directives.
16. (i) In the event where a particular co-oporative society’s registration has been canceled
pending legal liquidation and if the contributor has made his contribution right up
to the date of cancellation, the pension salary should be paid as stipulated in the
directives.
(ii)  if one Co-oporative society is integrating by law with another Co-oporative society
or, on the other hand, if a single corporative society is deviding itself in to two or
more societies legally, the contributor should not consider these eventualities as
measures of losing his/her pension rights but rather as an entitlement to retain his/
her rights under the resulting corporative society that is the new employer.
17. The Director should determine the benefits to be granted to a contributor as per the stipulations
made on directives.
18. (i) A contributor not in agreement with the decision of the Director could make an
appeal to the  Co-oporative Employees Commission.
(ii) A contributor not in agreement with the decision of the Director could make an
appeal to the Co-oporative Employees Commission within 30 days after receiving the
decision of the Director.
(iii) The ruling of the Co-oporative Employees Commission on the appeal should be
notified to  the appellant within 90 days of making the appeal.
(iv) The ruling of the Co-oporative Employees Commission on such an appeal should be
final and effective.
19. A pension salary, gratuity or a grant payable by the scheme should not be transferred or
conceded to a third party and all such transfers or acts of ceding will be invalid, ineffective
and zeroed. Except under this Precept or except under the authority granted to the Director by
directives issued as per this Precept, no third party may attempt to obtain a writ notice or a lien
on account of a loan or any such due from the contributor to this scheme against his/her
pension salary, gratuity or grant under this Precept.
Section 3
Co-oporative Employee’s Pension Fund
20  (i).  A Co-oporative Employees Pension Fund, here in after referred here as the Fund
should be instituted.
Contributions.
The liquidation
or integration
will not deprive
of  the pension
salary.
Grants to be
decided by the
Director.
Right to appeal.
Appeals to be
made within 30
days
Transfer or
recovery not
permitted from
the pension,
grants and the
gratuity.
Co-oporative
employee's
Pension Fund.
Ruling on
appeals within
90 days.

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
(ii)  The said Fund could be credited with;
(a) monies sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council from time to time for
the purpose of operating this scheme.
(b) Quantums of funds granted by the Provincial Minister of Finance from time
to time as advances to the Director.
(c) Monies credited by the Co-oporative Fund
(d) Monies received, annually or periodically, from co-oporative societies
(e) Monies received on account of exercising one’s own authority in
accomplishing tasks and achieving objectives under this Precept
(f) Monies received in the form of gifts and grants from connected associations
(g) Monies received from contributors to the scheme as stipulated
Contributions
(h) Monies received from investments as interests or as profits. All monies
received as gifts and donations from connected parties and monies received
as advances by the Director from Co-oporative societies in the performance
of duties under this precept.
(iii) In conducting the affairs of this Fund it is necessary that a Current account of the Fund
should be opened in a Government Bank.
(iv) This Fund should bear the expenses of all items of expenditure incurred by the Advisory
executive committee and the Director in the performance of their duties and in exercising
their authority in achieving the objectives of this precept and the expenditure incurred on
directives issued under this precept.
21. As per this Precept, all monies of the Fund, other than those that are needed for immediate
expenses by the director, should be invested by the Director in a Government Bank or a Government
Finance institution as determined by the Advisory executive committee.
22. The Director with the approval of the Advisory Executive committee may obtain loans from the
Co-oporative fund in order to fulfill the obligations of the Director, or in other words, to meet th e
requirements of this scheme and to accomplish the objectives of this Precept.
23. (i)  The Financial year of the scheme shall be the calendar year from January to December
of the year.
(ii) It is the responsibility of the Director to ensure that the Accounts are maintained
according to accepted accounting principles, fundamentals and standards. For this
purpose, the Director may obtain the services of the Accountant of the southern
Province Corporative Development Department.
(iii) The Director should prepare an estimate of the annual expenditure for the operation of
the scheme and present same to the Advisory Committee and obtain its approval.
(iv) At the end of every quarter a Three Month’s Income and Expenditure statement should
be prepared, and that statement should be presented to the Advisory committee within
30 days of the end of that quarter.
Investing
monies
Authority to
obtain credit &
Loans
Financial Year
Preparing the
Accounts

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
8 A
(v) The Director should facilitate the preparation and balancing of account As at 31 st
December of every year and an Income and expenditure account and a Balance sheet
giving a summary of the assets and liabilities as at that date, should be presented to the
Advisory committee before 31 st March of the following year.
(vi) Thereafter the information contained in 23. (v) above should be presented to the
Provincial Council before 30 th June of that year.
(vii) Every year the accounts of the scheme should be audited by, either the officer in charge
of audits of the Provincial Council, or according to law by the Auditor General’s
Department.
4th Section
Miscellaneous Matters
24 (i) The Minister, as per this Precept is called upon to issue directives on certain matters
mentioned as ‘the Minister should’ and ‘the minister may’ at instances in this precept.
Therefore, the Minister in charge of Co-oporative may Issue directives on those
particularly, and generally on matters mentioned below.
(a) To regularize, administer and manage the Pension Scheme.
(b) To determine, as to under what qualifications, conditions, circumstances and under
what limitations a corporative employee is entitle to become a member of this scheme.
(c) To determine the amount of money to be contributed by the members themselves,
and by the Co-oporative societies on behalf of the contributors.
(d) To determine the basis on which Pensions, gratuity and grants are to be paid to
the contributors.
(e) To determine the conditions regarding non - payment of contributions.
(f) To Institute rules and work procedures on the Advisory executive committee
activities.
(g) To Institute rules and work procedures on the appeal making process.
(h) To determine on the cancellation and the revalidation of the claim Certificate.
(i) To determine the basis of payment and the quantum to be paid on the death
gratuity.
(j) To determine the relevant specifications and formats.
(ii) All directives issued by the Minister should be published in the Gazette  publication. Thus,
the directives so issued will be effective, either on the day published or on the day as
mentioned’ to be effective from in the directives.
(iii) the directives, after publication in the Gazette  should be submitted to the Provincial Council
without delay for approval. After approval by the PC such approvals should also be published
in the Gazette . However, those directives that fail to obtain PC approval should be treated as
rescinded from the date it failed to obtain approval but with no effect on activity that may
have been initiated before that date. The directive that is rescinded should also be published
in the Gazette.
Accounts should
be presented to
the Provincial
Council
Auditing the
Accounts
Preparing the
Directives

<!-- page 9 -->

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA  - 09.04.2019
25. Under this Precept, it should not be possible to file a civil or criminal case against an officer,
citing exceptions and exigencies, who has otherwise acted in good faith in the conduct of his/
her duties with the sole intention of fulfilling the task entrusted to that officer. The category
of officer that come under this situation could be listed as under.
(i) The Director, the Advisory Executive Committee, a member of the Advisory Executive
committee, Co-oporative Employees Commission or a member of the Corporative
Employees Commission.
(ii) An officer or an employee, of this scheme or of the Co-oporative Employees Commission
who acts on the directive of the Director, Advisory Executive Committee or the
Corporative Employees Commission.
26. Every Co-oporative society, that acts in breach of the provisions of this Precept, or the
provisions of the directives issued under this Precept and the corporative societies that fails
to comply with those said provisions are guilty of an offense and thus when proven guilty
before a Magistrate at a summary trial, should be subjected to a period of imprisonment not
exceeding 6 months in one of the two ways or to a fine of rupees twelve thousand or to a
penalty of both, the fine and the imprisonment.
27. Unless an alternative definition is required, the following terms used in this precept should
generally mean as below.
‘Provincial Council5 should mean the Southern Provincial Council.
‘Minister’ should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Co-oporative in the Southern
Provincial Council at the time.
‘Co-oporative Employee’s Commission’ should mean The Southern Province Co-oporative
Employee’s Commission instituted by the Southern Province Co-oporative Employees Commission
Precept No. 1 of 1998.
‘Co-oporative Society’ should mean a Co-oporative society registered in the Southern Province
under the Co-oporative Society Act, No.5 of 1972, amended by Act, No. 11 of 1992 and Act, No.32
of  1983.
‘Co-oporative Society Association’ should mean a Co-oporative society comprising of a number
of Co-oporative societies registered in the Southern Province under the Co-oporative Society
Act, No.5 of 1972, amended by Act, No. 11 of 1992 and Act, No.32 of  1983.
‘Employee’ should mean an employee who has secured a permanent position in a Co-oporative
Society/ Co-oporative Society Association as defined by the Co-oporative Employees Commission
Act, No. 12 of 1972 and by the Southern Province Co-oporative Employees Commission Precept
No. 1 of 1998.
A ‘Legitimate Inquiry’ should mean a proper inquiry conducted in terms of the provisions of
Act,  No. 5 of 1972 amended by Act, No. 32 of 1983 and Act. No. 11 of 1992.
28. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of this
Precept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.
04 - 890
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Protection for
the action taken
under this
Precept, or as
per directive by
the authorities
Offences &
Penalties
Definitions
Effective version
in an
inconsistency