

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 936
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 932 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"379 – 2024 wfm%a,a ui 05 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'04'05
No. 2,379  –  fRiday, aPRil 05, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th april 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th april, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
929 - B 082556 - 5,403 (04/2024)
N. B.–  the list of Jurors' in the year 2024 of the Jurisdiction areas of Galle district has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in 
Sinhala, tamil & English languages.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
930
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
lankan. a ,Sri lankan, is a citizen of Sri lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
931
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
932
Post - v acant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ’ S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages – (Sinhala)
KalUtaRa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the Post) 
with 02 credit passes in not more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE(o/l) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. - In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.)
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 06
th  May, 2024, by registered post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
on this 25th day of March, 2024.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
933
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Mihiripenna area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Maradana area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Beruwala area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar 
of Maggonabadda area of Kalutara & 
Panadura thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Mihiripenna area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
dharga town area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Bulathsinhala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Veyangalla area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Palinda Nuwara
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Pelena area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Panadura
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
thotawatta area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Panadura
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Eluwila area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Panadura
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Henamulla area of Kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara.
04-27

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
934
PARLIAmENTAR y   buDGET  OffICE
v acancies
iN  terms of Section 14 of Parliamentary Budget Office Act, No. 6 of 2023, applications are invited from citizens of 
Sri lanka who are competent, honest, of high moral  integrity and of good repute for the posts of “Parliamentary 
Budget Officer” and  “Deputy Parliamentary Budget Officer” for the Parliamentary Budget Office.
The Parliamentary Budget Office was established with the intention of assisting the  legislature in its performance of 
public finance responsibilities under the constitution.
The Parliamentary Budget Office shall be independent, non-partisan, and exclusive of and protected from any political 
influence. It shall further be appropriately staffed with well qualified economists, and be tasked with producing high 
quality analysis  and reports.
applications should be sent under registered cover to reach the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of  
Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura kotte" on or before 6 th may 2024, indicating the post apply for on the top left corner 
of the envelope. (this  notice is accessible via www.parliament.lk).
1. Parliamentary budget Officer
1.1  Salary Scale
The monthly salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 358,150 – 5X10,030
– Rs. 408,360/- (the minimum initial gross monthly remuneration together
 with all other allowances 
will be approximately Rs.  665,000/-).
1.2 Age Limit
Should be not more than 65 years of age by the closing date for applications.
1.3 Experience:
At least 15-years of experience in government budgeting, financial policy, fiscal policy, or 
macroeconomic analysis.
2. Deputy Parliamentary budget Officer
2.1  Salary Scale
The monthly salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 302,510 - 5X8,470 – Rs. 344,860/- (The minimum 
initial gross monthly remuneration together
 with all other allowances will be approximately  
Rs. 560,000/-).
2.2 Age Limit
Should be not more than 65 years of age by the closing date for applications.
2.3  Experience:
At least 10 years in government budgeting, financial policy, fiscal policy, macroeconomic analysis, 
and/ or the expenditure management system in
 Sri lanka.
3. Educational Qualifications:
3.1 A degree from a recognized university in a relevant field of study such as economics, business, finance, 
political science, or public administration.
3.2 A post-graduate degree or significant experience in economics, public policy, management, business, or 
finance.
3.3 Significant management experience at the senior executive level (in a private/public sector or a non-
government/research organization); and
3.4 Substantial experience leading high-level budgeting, economic, and/ or
 financial analyses, ideally related 
to the public sector.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
935
4. Skills and Competencies:
4.1 Knowledge of the Sri lankan Government’s budgeting process, expenditure management processes, 
and public sector management principles such as accountability and transparency.
4.2 Significant understanding of the principles and practices of public finance, macro-economic and fiscal 
policy.
4.3 Understanding of Parliament’s constitutional responsibilities in relation to public finance and the role 
played by different parliamentary stakeholders.
4.4 capacity to navigate and respond to competing interests in complex, partisan situations in a manner that 
maintains individual and institutional independence.
4.5 Ability to quickly synthesize and effectively communicate complex information in clear language to 
non-technical audiences and act as a spokesperson when interacting with the public, media, public 
institutions,
 parliamentarians, governments, and other organizations.
5. Personal Attributes:
5.1 integrity and high ethical standards.
5.2 impartiality and independence.
5.3 Strategic thinker.
5.4 Sound judgment and tact in partisan environments.
5.5 Excellent interpersonal skills.
5.6 Experience leading and managing high-performing teams.
6.  method of Recruitment
on the merit of a structured interview
7.  Terms and Conditions of Service
Refer the Parliamentary Budget Office Act, No. 6 of  2023,
	http://www.documents.gov.lk/files/act/2023/6/06-2023_E.pdf
8. Disqualifications:
Refer the Parliamentary Budget Office Act, No. 6 of  2023,
http://www.documents.gov.lk/files/act/2023/6/06-2023_E.pdf
9. Applicants should attach to their application, copies of the following certificates. Originals of the certificates 
should be produced when called upon to do so.
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications,
(c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications
(d) Certificates of Experience
10. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public Service should send their  applications through relevant 
Heads of departments / institutions.
11. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
12. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
 Secretary - General of  Parliament.  
Parliament of Sri lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura  Kotte,
april 5, 2024.
04-195

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
936
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
DEPARTmENT   Of ImmIGRATION   AND  EmIGRATION
Open Competitive Examination for making Recruitment for the post of Operational Assistant Grade III of 
management Assistant Non - Technical -  Service Category 2 of the Department of  
Immigration and Emigration – 2023 (2024)
aPPlicatioNS  are invited from the eligible Sri lankan citizens for the open competitive Examination of making 
recruitment for the post of operational assistant of the department of immigration and Emigration.
1. The term “Head of the Department” in this notification means the Controller General of the Department of Immigration 
and Emigration. Recruitments are made through this Examination for the post of operational assistant of the department 
of Immigration and Emigration. Unless otherwise specified, the term “ post “ means the post of Operational Assistant.
2. the closing date of applications is 25.04.2024.
2.1. Written Examination – this examination consists of the under mentioned two (02) papers.
01. intelligence t est
02. General knowledge
2.2. date of Examination – this examination will be held in colombo in July, 2024 the controller General of 
immigration and Emigration reserves the power to postpone or cancel this examination.
3. the number to be recruited is  fifty (50). at the event of exceeding the number of vacancies by the candidates who 
have secured equal marks for the last vacancy or for the last few vacancies, the controller General for immigration 
and Emigration will make the final decision regarding filling up the number of vacancies.  The effective date of this 
appointment of these recruitments will also be determined by the controller General of immigration and Emigration. 
4. Conditions of Service :
4.1  An applicant selected will be appointed to Grade III subjecting to the general conditions governed by the 
Public Service, Provisions of the Establishments code and financial Regulations, Procedural Rules of the 
Public Service commission published in the Extraordinary Gazette  No. 2310/29 of 14.12.2022, terms and 
conditions of the Scheme of Recruitment post of operational assistant Grade iii of Management assistant 
Non - t echnical - 02 Service category of the department of immigration and Emigration approved by the 
Public Service commission dated 18.10.2018 and the amendments already made and  to be made to the 
Scheme in future. 
4.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. However, the appointees shall be subjected to the policy decisions 
made by government in future on Pension Scheme offered to the new appointees.
4.3 Operational Assistant Grade III is recruited to the post subjecting to a probationary period of three (03) 
years. Those who recruit so shall pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination as mentioned in the Scheme of 
Recruitment within three (03) years.  
4.4 Prescribed Official Language proficiency shall be obtained within three (03) years after the recruitment to the 
post as per the Public administration circular No. 18/2020 dated 16.01.2020 and the consequent circulars.
 
4.5 The officers recruited to the service in a non official language shall obtain the relevant official language 
proficiency within the probationary period. 
4.6 the controller General of immigration and Emigration reserves the power to cancel the appointments of 
the applicants who fail to assume on due date the duties offered to him / her and / or who reject or evade to 
assume duties in an area to which appointed.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
937
5. Monthly Salary Scale :
the monthly salary scale of this post is Rs. 27,140-10x300-11x350-10x495-10x660-45,540 (MN-1/2016) as per the 
Schedule No. i of Public administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. additionally, the other allowances paid by 
the Government from time to time to the Government officers will also be received. 
6. Qualifications for recruitment :
6.1.  (i)  Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 (ii) Should be of a distinctive character.
6.2 Educational Qualifications : 
 (i) Should have passed G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects in not more than two sittings 
with Credit passes for Sinhala/ Tamil/ English language and Mathematics and for another two subjects. 
  and
 (ii) Should have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) Examination at least in one subject (excluding the 
common General test).
6.3 Physical eligibility :
 (i) Physical eligibility of the applicants will be subject for special consideration.  The minimum height 
of the operational assistants (Male) shall be 05 feet 04 inches (162.5cm) and the circumference of 
the chest (Without inhaling) shall be minimum of 32 inches (81.25 cm). the minimum height of the 
operational assistants (female) shall be 05 feet 02 inches (157.5cm).
 (ii) Every candidate should be of sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and 
to perform the duties of the post. 
6.4 Age : 
age shall not be below Eighteen (18) years and not above thirty (30) years as at the date of closing applications. 
6.5 Limits on qualifications :
 (i) Qualifications required to apply for this examination shall be completed in every manner on or before 
the closing date of applications. 
 (ii) Robed priest of any religion is not permitted to sit for this examination. 
7. examination fees :
 The fee for the examination is Rs. 600.00. It shall be paid to any Post Office / Sub Post office in the island before the 
closing date of application as to credit the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of commissioner General of Examinations. 
Receipt, obtained making payment shall be affixed in the appropriate place on the application. The fee paid for the 
examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination on any reason. Money orders or stamps are 
not accepted for the examination fee. (it will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant.)
8. Mode of Application :
8.1. The application shall be in compliance with the specified format attached to this notice and shall be 
prepared using both sides of a 8 ½ X12 (A4) size paper. The application may be prepared either by typing 
or computerizing or in the applicant’s own handwritings. it is emphasized to prepare the application, as 
to appear Nos. 1 to 6 on the first page, Nos. 7 to 10 on the second page and the balance on the other 
pages. applications with incomplete information and not complied with the specimen application will be 
rejected without information.  Further, it is the responsibility of the applicant to scrutinize as to whether the 
completed application is in compliance with the specimen application in the notification of examination. (It 
will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application with the applicant.) 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
938
8.2. the application should be in the same medium of language in which the candidate intends to sit for the 
examination.
8.3. applications completed correctly shall be sent by registered post on or before 25.04.2024 to reach the 
following address.
 “the commissioner General of Examinations,
 institutional Examination organizing Branch, 
 department of Examinations of Sri lanka,
 P.o. Box 1503,
 colombo.”
  “open competitive Examination for Making Recruitment for the post of operational assistant Grade iii of 
Management assistant Non - technical -  Service category 2  – 2023(2024)” shall be indicated clearly on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed. Late applications will be rejected 
without of information. in preparing the application, it is essential to indicate the name of the examination 
mentioned in the title of this notification in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in 
addition to tamil in tamil applications. 
8.4. the candidate’s signature on the application shall be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice 
of the Peace/ Commissioner of Oaths/ Attorney at Law/ Notary Public/ Authorized Officer of the Armed 
Forces/ Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or a Staff Grade officer holding a permanent 
post in the Government.
8.5 Applications not completed in every respect will be rejected without information. No complaints will be 
entertained regarding loss or delay of applications in post.
8.6 acknowledgement of receipt of the applications will not be made. the commissioner General of 
Examinations will issue admission cards to the candidates assuming that only those who possess the 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. The Department of Examinations of Sri 
lanka will publish a paper advertisement  stating the same as soon as the admission cards are issued. if 
the applicant does not receive the admission card even after 02 or 03 days from the date of publication 
of the advertisement, he / she should inform the department of Examinations of Sri lanka through the 
telephone numbers mentioned in the advertisement. the name of the examination applied, applicant’s full 
name, National identity card number and the address should be correctly mentioned there. if the applicant 
is from outside colombo, it may be fruitful to send a letter of request to the department of Examinations by 
fax stating your fax number and the above information in order to obtain a copy of the admission card by 
fax. furthermore in order to prove certain information inquired by the department of Examination, it will 
be useful to have the copy of application retained by the applicant, the copy of the receipt of payment of 
examination fee and the receipt registered at the time of posting the application. 
9. Admission for the examination
9.1. only the applicants who have been issued admission cards by the commissioner General of Examinations 
are permitted to sit for the examination. a candidate who does not produce the admission card on the date 
of examination will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
9.2. candidates are required to sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to them. the admission 
card attested his / her signature shall be handed over to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall on the first 
day he /she sits the examination. a set of rules to be followed by every candidate has been published at the 
beginning of this Gazette Notification.  The Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations stipulated by 
the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conducting of examination. if such rules imposed 
are violated, they will be subject to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
939
Note - Issuance of an admission card to a candidate shall not be constituted as fulfillment of all the qualifications requested 
by this notification either to sit the examination or to hold a post.
10. Identity of Candidate
 The candidates shall prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
 (i)  National identity card issued by the department for Registration of Persons 
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii)  Valid Sri lankan driving license
 furthermore, candidates shall enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so as to verify their 
identity. candidates who refuse to prove their identity so will not be permitted to enter into the examination hall. 
furthermore, the applicant shall not cover his /her face and ears so as to verify his /her identity for the examination 
authorities at the event of entering the examination hall until leaving at the end of the examination.
11. Penalty for providing false information.
 True information shall be provided carefully at the event of filling the application forms. The candidature of an applicant 
will be cancelled as per the rules and regulations of this examination if it is found that he /she does not eligible before 
the examination, at the event of holding examination or after the examination. 
12. action will be taken when necessary as per the decision made by the controller General of immigration and Emigration 
regarding the facts which have not been mentioned in this notification. 
13. Conducting the examination
13.1. this examination is held in Sinhala, tamil and English media. 
13.2. the medium in which he / she sits the examination will be treated as the medium of appointment. 
Note : 
(i) Both Question papers, viz.   intelligence test and General knowledge shall be answered in the same language. 
(ii) candidate will not be permitted to change subsequently the medium of Examination mentioned in the 
application. 
14. Method of recruitment  
14.1 Written Examination
 A Written Examination consisting of two Question Papers in the under mentioned subjects will be conducted. 
Candidates shall sit all the subjects of the examination. The subjects and the minimum marks which shall be 
obtained to pass each subject are as follows.
Subject No. Subject marks minimum marks to 
be obtained for pass Duration
01 intelligence test 100 40 1
02 General knowledge 100 40 1
14.2 an interview Panel appointed by the controller General of immigration and Emigration will hold a General 
interview and an interview for the assessment of eligibility for the candidates who have secured “Merit” 
as thrice the number expected to be recruited among the applicants who have obtained a minimum of 40% 
marks or more for each Question paper sitting all the question papers of the Written Examination. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
940
 (i) General interview –
 (ii) the applicants who have obtained eligibility at the written examination in 14.1 above are eligible to 
appear before the general Interview. This Interview is held to check whether the qualifications for 
making recruitment mentioned under 6 above have been fulfilled and the qualifications are complied 
with the limits. Marks will not be given at this interview. 
 (ii) interview for the assessment of eligibility 
 The applicants proven to have completed all the qualifications for making recruitment are eligible for the Interview 
for the assessment of eligibility. the interview for the assessment of eligibility will be held to assess the additional 
qualifications, skills and competencies of the applicants. Marks will be given as follows and the maximum marks one 
can obtain is twenty five (25).
main topics for which marks are assigned for the Interview 
for assessment of eligibility
maximum marks minimum marks to be 
considered for selection
Additional Educational qualifications 05 Not applicable
computer literacy 05
language skill 05
Skill shown at the interview 05
other competencies 
Sports skills
Scouting/ Student corps
other Professional  skills
05
Total 25
if a certain number among the applicants called for the General interview do not eligible for appearing for the interview 
for the assessment of eligibility, any other applicants for those who have not eligible so are not called for the General 
interview. 
 2.  if there is no number of eligible candidates equal to thrice of the number to be recruited available, only the eligible 
applicants are called for the interview. 
3.  the controller General of immigration and Emigration will decide the date of interview and the appointment of the 
interview Panel. 
Note : 
1.  Recruitments are made on the results of a Written Examination and an interview for the assessment of eligibility. 
initially the Written Examination is held and thrice the number expected to be recruited will be called for the 
interview for the assessment of eligibility among those who pass the written examination. Recruitments are made 
on the order of merit of the total marks of the written examination and the marks secured at the interview for the 
assessment of eligibility.
 ii. the appointing authority will approve the comprehensive Marking Scheme for the interview for the 
assessment of eligibility within maximum marks assigned for the main fields mentioned in the table and 
for which marks are given.
N.B. –  Participation in the interview is not constituted as a fulfillment of the qualifications for awarding the 
appointment.  

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
941
14.3  Number expected to make recruitment as per the number of vacancies - Recruitments are made to this post 
on the order of merit of the applicants who obtained the highest marks as per the total marks of the written 
examination and the marks secured at the interview for the assessment of eligibility.
14.4   the full Result Register prepared as per the merit of the total marks secured by candidates at Examination 
as per paragraphs 14.1 and 14.2 of this Gazette Notification will be handed over to the Controller General 
of immigration and Emigration. Subsequently, results will be sent personally to all candidates who sit the 
examination or published in the website www.results.exams.gov.lk.  Candidates are subject to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding conducting the examination 
and issuance of results. If such rules imposed are violated, he /she will be subject to a penalty imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
15. Syllabus of the Written Examination 
01. intelligence test – duration 01 hour. Marks 100.
intelligence test 
a question paper to determine logical power, mathematical skills, comprehension and ability to make decisions.
02. General knowledge - duration 01 hour. Marks 100.
General knowledge
to determine general knowledge on recent economic, social and political information in Sri lanka, World politics, 
knowledge on the fields of science and technology and new scientific inventions. 
 
16. If there is any inconsistency or incompliance among the Sinhala, Tamil and English media notifications, the Sinhala 
media notification shall prevail.
 
 I. S. H. J. Ilukpitiya
 controller General of immigration and Emigration,
 department of immigration and Emigration.
Suhurupaya,
department of immigration and Emigration,
Battaramulla,
28th March, 2024.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
942
Specimen application
                         
                                                                                                                                           (for office use)
ආගමන හාවිගමන ෙදපාර්තෙම්න්තුෙව් කළමනාකරණ සහකාර තාක්ෂණික ෙනොවන ඛණ්ඩ - 2 ෙසේවා ගණෙය්
ෙමෙහයුම් සහකාර තනතුර III ශ්ෙර්ණිය සඳහා බඳවා ගැනීෙම් විවෘත තරගවිභාගය - 2023 ( 2024)
open competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade i i i of operational assistant Post of Management 
assistant Non - technical level Seg - 02 Service of the department of immigration and Emigratio n – 2024
1. Medium : (Write the relevant number in the box)
Language medium for appearing for the examination Number
Sinhala 2
tamil 3
English 4
(application shall be completed in the language of sitting the examination.)
2. Personal information 
2.1 Name in full (in Blockletters ): ......................................... ................................ .........
(Ex : HERatH MUdiyaNSElaGE SaMaN KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
2.2 the name begins with the last name and the initials of the other names after ( i n Blockletters) :
............................................................................................................................................
(Ex : GUNaWaRdHaNa H .M .S .K .)
2.3 Name in full( in Sinhala / tamil) : .....................................................................................
2.4 Permanent address (in Blockletters ) :
………………………….……………………… ……………………………………… ….
2.5 Ethnic Group:  (Write the relevant number in the box)
Sinhala - 1
tamil - 2
indian tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
others - 5
3. address to send the admission card : 
i. ……………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………….………………
( in Blockletters )
ii. ……………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………….………………
(in Sinhala / tamil )
4. Gender : (Write the relevant number in the box)
Male - 0
female - 1
5. National identity card Number
6. Mobile Phone number
Page 1of 3 
 
fY%A‚h

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
943
7. date of Birth year Month date 
8. age as at …………. 202.. to be fulfilled the qualifications
y ears Months  da ys
9. academic Qualifications  :
9 .1     G.c.E. (ordinary level ) Examination :
date passed index No. Medium of 
Examination
Subjects Pass
9 .2 G.c.E. (advanced level) Examination : 
year passed index No. Medium of 
Examination
Subjects Pass
10. Physical Qualifications :
10. 1 Height 
………………… feet    ……………… inches  or ……………… centimeters
10. 2 c ircumference of chest (Not applicable for women applicants.)
………………… feet    ……………… inches  or ……………… centimeters
11. 11.1 Whether you have convicted in a court of law?  …………….. (yes/  No)
11.2 if the answer is “yes”, give the details of the same.
…………………………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………….……….……….………. 
Page 2of 3 
Specimen application
                         
                                                                                                                                           (for office use)
ආගමන හාවිගමන ෙදපාර්තෙම්න්තුෙව් කළමනාකරණ සහකාර තාක්ෂණික ෙනොවන ඛණ්ඩ - 2 ෙසේවා ගණෙය්
ෙමෙහයුම් සහකාර තනතුර III ශ්ෙර්ණිය සඳහා බඳවා ගැනීෙම් විවෘත තරගවිභාගය - 2023 (2024)
open competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade i ii of operational assistant Post of Management 
assistant Non - technical level Seg - 02 Service of the department of immigration and Emigratio n – 2024
1. Medium : (Write the relevant number in the box)
(application shall be completed in the language of sitting the examination.)
2. Personal information 
2.1 Name in full (in Block letters ): ......................................... ................................ .........
(Ex : HERatH MUdiyaNSElaGE SaMaN KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
2.2 the name begins with the last name and the initials of the other names after (in Block letters) :
............................................................................................................................................
(Ex : GUNaWaRdHaNa H .M.S.K.)
2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala / tamil) : .....................................................................................
2.4 Permanent address (in Block letters ) :
………………………….……………………… ……………………………………… ….
2.5 Ethnic Group:  (Write the relevant number in the box)
Sinhala - 1
tamil - 2
indian tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
others - 5
3. address to send the admission card : 
i. ……………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………….………………
( in Block letters )
ii. ……………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………….………………
(in Sinhala / tamil )
4. Gender : (Write the relevant number in the box)
Male - 0
female - 1
5. National identity card Number
6. Mobile Phone number
Page 1of 3 
 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
944
12. 12.1 Whether you are holding a post in the Government Service at present  ….... (yes/  No)
11.3 12.2 if the answer is “yes”, give the details of the same.
.…………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………….…………………………………………………………… 
13. Whether you are a person who held a post in the Government Service and dismissed / quitted from the
same ? ……………….
14. Examination Fees :
i. Post office / sub post office paid : … …………………………………………………… 
ii. ii. amount paid : ………………………………………………………
iii. date paid : ………………………………………………………
iV. Receipt No. : ……………………………….……………………… 
15. declaration of applicant :
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me here are true and accurate. i also agree to abide by
the rules and regulations of the examination and with the decision made to cancel my candidature if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false and incorrect as per the provisions and conditions of
this examination , before the examination, while holding the examination or thereafter.
further, I declare that I will subject to the rules and regulations, enacted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the holding of examination.
………………………………………..,
Signature o f applicant.
date: ……………………………..
16. attestation of the signature of applicant: (as per Paragraph 8.4 of the Gazette Notification .)
i, do hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss. ………………………………………………. (Name in full) 
who submits this application is personally known to me, he/she placed his/her signature before me 
on……………………….. , and th e receipt of making payment the examination fee has been af fixed 
herein this application.
…………………………………………….,
Signature of t he officer attesting t he sig nature.
date : …………………………..……….. 
Name : ……………………………………
designation : ………… ………………………… 
address : ……………………………………
(official seal shall be placed. )
Examination receipt may firmly be affixed here.
(it may be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with you.)
Page 3of 3 
7. date of Birth year Month date 
8. age as at …………. 202.. to be fulfilled the qualifications
y ears Months  da ys
9. academic Qualifications  :
9 .1     G.c.E. (ordinary level ) Examination :
9 .2 G.c.E. (advanced level) Examination : 
10. Physical Qualifications :
10. 1 Height 
………………… feet    ……………… inches  or ……………… centimeters
10. 2 c ircumference of chest (Not applicable for women applicants.)
………………… feet    ……………… inches  or ……………… centimeters
11. 11.1 Whether you have convicted in a court of law?  …………….. (yes/  No)
11.2 if the answer is “yes”, give the details of the same.
…………………………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………….……….……….………. 
Page 2of 3 
Gazette

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
945
12. 12.1 Whether you are holding a post in the Government Service at present  ….... (yes/  No)
11.3 12.2 if the answer is “yes”, give the details of the same.
.…………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………….…………………………………………………………… 
13. Whether you are a person who held a post in the Government Service and dismissed / quitted from the
same ? ……………….
14. Examination Fees :
i. Post office / sub post office paid : … …………………………………………………… 
ii. ii. amount paid : ………………………………………………………
iii. date paid : ………………………………………………………
iV. Receipt No. : ……………………………….……………………… 
15. declaration of applicant :
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me here are true and accurate. i also agree to abide by
the rules and regulations of the examination and with the decision made to cancel my candidature if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false and incorrect as per the provisions and conditions of
this examination , before the examination, while holding the examination or thereafter.
further, I declare that I will subject to the rules and regulations, enacted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the holding of examination.
………………………………………..,
Signature o f applicant.
date: ……………………………..
16. attestation of the signature of applicant: (as per Paragraph 8.4 of the Gazette Notification .)
i, do hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss. ………………………………………………. (Name in full) 
who submits this application is personally known to me, he/she placed his/her signature before me 
on……………………….. , and th e receipt of making payment the examination fee has been af fixed 
herein this application.
…………………………………………….,
Signature of t he officer attesting t he sig nature.
date : …………………………..……….. 
Name : ……………………………………
designation : ………… ………………………… 
address : ……………………………………
(official seal shall be placed. )
Page 3of 3 
mINISTRy Of fINANCE, ECONOmIC STAbILIzATION AND NATIONAL POLICIES 
DEPARTmENT  Of SRI LANkA CuSTOmS 
to customs Guards,
Limited Competitive Examination for the Promotion to the Post of Inspector of Customs, Grade II of Sri 
Lanka Customs - 2024
oNliNE  applications are called from Customs Guards- Grade II who possess below mentioned qualifications to fill 50% 
of existing vacancies of posts of inspector of customs-Grade ii.  
01. Qualifications :
1.1 Professional Qualifications
 i. Should be an officer of the post of Customs Guard- Grade II 
 ii. Should have an immediately preceding 05 year period of active and satisfactory service and 
have earned all the salary increments during the said period.
 iii. Should have performed average or higher performance level in accordance with the approved 
scheme of performance appraisal during five years (05) preceding the date of promotion.
 iv. Should have passed Efficiency Bar examinations, relevant to the post of Customs Guard- 
Grade ii.
  
1.2 experience
Should have completed a period of service of at least 03 years as a customs Guard- Grade ii. 
 Note -
 Officers who have fulfilled below mentioned qualifications up to 31.12.2026 will be recruited under the limited 
stream.
 i. Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of at least eight (08) years 
of the post of customs Guard- Grade iii. 
 ii. the appointment should be permanent. 
 iii. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the provisions set out in 
Public Service commission circular No. 01/2020.  
 iv. Should have earned eight (08) salary increments and should have performed average or higher 
performance level in accordance with the approved scheme of performance appraisal.
 v. Should have passed the relevant efficiency bar examinations. 
 vi. Should have acquired the competency in relevant official language.   
04-113

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
946
  1.3 Other :
 i. Should not be subjected to disciplinary action during the prescribed period as per Public 
Service commission circular No. 01/2020 
 ii. It is mandatory to complete the qualifications mentioned in 01 above before the closing date 
of acceptance of applications of 22.04.2024. 
02. the application has been published on www.doenets.lk  website of the department of Examinations on “online 
applications – Recruitment Exams” under “our Services” and, applications should be submitted through online 
system only. closing date of acceptance of applications is 22
nd  april 2024. Submission of online applications 
are open from 08 th  april 2024 at 9.00 a.m. and closed on 22 nd  april 2024 at 9.00 p.m. once the online application 
is submitted it should be downloaded, relevant parts of the printed copy should be filled in writing and should 
be submitted to the head of the institution to be entered into the personal file. 
 online applications should be completed only in the English language. Before completing the online application, 
download the instructions prepared to apply for the examination. Strictly follow these instructions when filing 
out the application. No amendment made to the application after obtaining a printout of the application will be 
considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. 
 the examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Payment of examination fee should be made only by the following methods, 
provided by the online system. 
 i. any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit cards with the facility of internet transaction  
 iii. online banking method of Bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the Bank of ceylon
 Note:- 
 (a) instructions on the method of payment under above methods have been given under the technical 
instructions for the examination of the website. 
 (b) Payment will be notified by a SMS or e-mail. The full amount for the examination fee should be paid and 
applications that pay less or more examination fees will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will 
not be responsible for the delays in the payment of examination fees by aforesaid methods. 
 (c) the examination fee shall not be refunded or transferred to any other examination due to any reason.
03. this examination will consist of two parts, a written examination, and a general interview. the marks and time 
given for each subject in the written examination are given as follows: 
Part 1- Written Examination
        t otal marks Pass marks
 case Study (01 Hour)   100  50
 
        
 Part 2 - General Interview (marks are not given).
candidates similar to the number of vacancies are called for a general interview on a merit order to examine 
whether they have fulfilled the basic qualifications required for appointment to the post. 
This examination will be conducted in all three mediums; Sinhala, Tamil, and English. Applicants should sit 
for the whole examination in the same medium. it is not permitted to change the applied medium later. the 
applicants can apply for the examination medium in which they passed the qualifying examination to enter 
their present service. the decision of the commissioner General of Examination relevant to conducting the 
examination and release of results will be the final.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
947
04. The syllabus of the case study subjects of the examination is given below: 
Knowledge will be tested through a written examination consisting case studies, based on procedures related 
to the duties of inspectors of customs with special attention towards the following duties. 
  1. inspection of the movement of inward and outward vehicles, persons, passengers and baggages from 
gates of other customs premises of harbours, Export Processing Zones and airports for imports and 
exports.    
  2. Storing and releasing of goods, brought to store in Customs Offices, harbours, airports, export 
processing zones and other customs premises, custom warehouses and customs bonded warehouses 
and releasing after customs clearance and documentation and securing of relevant documents.         
  3. Key duties
  4. operations, raids and arrestments 
  5. Goods and containers retained, arrested, and forfeited at customs and related documents. 
  6. carrying and handing over of goods for which duties and other customs levies have not been paid 
under their supervision on behalf of Sri lanka customs. 
 
05. 5.1  Applicants who have scored 50% or more marks for the Case Study subject will be eligible for calling for 
interview. Applicants who have passed the written examination and qualified at the interview will be selected 
to be appointed subject to the approved number of vacancies for the relevant recruitment and 10% of approved 
vacancies for recruitment will be allocated for female officers.   
   
5.2  Release of results 
 the results sheets including the names of applicants who are eligible as per above 5.1 paragraph will be 
forwarded to the director General of customs. thereafter, the department of Examinations will inform the 
results to all the applicants who sat for the examination, via the post or official website of the department 
www.results.exams.gov.lk
06. 
6.1 the commissioner General of examinations will issue the admission cards to the applicants on the 
assumption that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the Gazette 
notification have forwarded the applications. The Department of Examinations will publish a paper notice 
immediately after the issuance of admissions to applicants. if admissions have not been received after 
two or three days of this notice, it should be informed to the institutional Examination Branch of the 
department of Examinations as mentioned in the notice. applicants are informed to forward inquiries to 
the department of Examinations mentioning the name of the examination, the full name of the candidate, 
address, Nic number, and the address. if the applicant lives outside colombo, it is more fruitful to inquire 
with a request letter mentioning a fax number to fax a copy of the admission to the applicant. Keeping a 
copy of the downloaded application, and a copy of the receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee 
will be more fruitful. 
6.2 the applicant should sit for the examination under the prescribed center under the prescribed index 
number. all the applicants should hand over the attested admission cards to the examiner in charge of the 
examination on the first day of the examination. The applicants who fail to do so will not be permitted to 
sit for the examination.
6.3 applicants should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the examiner in charge of the examination 
center for all subjects of the examination. Any of the following documents will be accepted.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
948
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid Sri lankan driving license
 also, the applicants should expose their identity without covering their faces and ears when they enter 
the examination hall. applicants who refuse to do so will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. 
further, the applicants should remain with their faces and ears uncovered till they leave the examination 
hall, enabling the examination authorities to identify the applicant.
   07.  7.1 Issuance of admission to the candidate does not confirm that he/she has fulfilled all the requirements 
required to sit for the examination or qualified for the post.
7.2 this examination will be held only in colombo. the date and venue of the examination will be informed 
later.
08. applicants will be liable to rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in 
relevant to conducting  the examination. in case of violation of such rules and regulations he or she will be 
liable to any penalty imposed by the director General of Examination.
09.   in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, t amil, and English text of this Gazette Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. Matters not included in these regulations if any will be decided at the discretion 
of the director General of customs.
 
 director General of customs,
 Sri lanka customs.
“customs House”,
No.40, Main Street,
colombo 11. 
04 -123
______________________________________________
AuDIT  SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Superintendents of Audit in Executive Service 
Category of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service– 2023 (2024)
tHE  limited competitive Examination for recruitment of Superintendents of audit in Executive Service category of the 
Sri Lanka State Audit Service, for the officers of the National Audit Office will be held in Colombo in August 2024 by 
the commissioner General of Examinations. the audit Service commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel this 
examination.
a  number of 165 vacancies existing in the post of Superintendents of audit in Executive Service category in 
class ii of Grade ii of the Sri lanka State audit Service as per the provisions of 7.2.3 of service minute of Sri 
lanka State audit Service published in the extraordinary Gazette of Sri lanka democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri lanka No. 2366/31 dated 12 th  January 2024 and the policy decision taken by the cabinet of Ministers No. 
CP/21/1274/301/017dated 13.09.2021 will be filled by the Audit Service Commission on the results of a written 
examination and an interview held for the candidates who have completed the qualifications specified in paragraph 
02 below. 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
949
 01. Service Conditions :
This appointment is subject to the conditions enacted in the service minute of Sri Lanka State Audit Service 
published in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2366/31 
dated 12
th  January 2024, the amendments to be made hereafter to the  aforesaid Service Minute , Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, 
Financial Regulations of the Government and circulars, instructions  and orders issued by National Audit Office 
from time to time. 
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. further, you shall make contributions to the Widows’ and 
orphans’ / Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension Scheme.
 
 ii. the successful candidates will be appointed to this service on probation for a period of one year from the 
date of appointment.
 iii. Confirmation at the end of their probationary period of successful candidates will be inter-alia depend on : 
 (a) Satisfactory work, attendance and conduct.
 (b) Passing of Efficiency Bar Examination before the end of probation period 
 iv. He /She should report to the prior service/post, if he/she fails to secure confirmation at the end of the 
probationary period. 
 v.  in terms of provisions set out in the Public administration circular No.18/2020 dated 16.10.2020, the 
Officers selected for the said appointment should acquire the proficiency in other official language/official 
languages. 
 vi. Every candidate should have an excellent moral character and should be in sound health.
 vii. Officers selected are subject to the condition of willing to serve in any part of the island. 
 viii. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the provisions specified in paragraph 
12(V) of the service minute of Sri lanka State audit Service in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No.2366/31 dated 12
th  January 2024.
 
02. Qualifications: 
 The following officers, who have 10 years continuous active service period of the National Aduit Office (The then 
auditor General’s department) as at 06.05.2024, only will be permitted to appear for this Examination. 
(a) Audit Officers in the Audit Examiners’ Service or Assistant Superintendents of Audit ;
     or
(b) Officers in the Supra Grade, Grade I or Grade II of the Management Service Officers’ Service receiving 
a monthly consolidated salary of not less than Rs.32, 900/- as per the Public administration circular 
3/2016.  
  
03. Salary Scale: 
according to the service minute of Sri lanka State audit Service published in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification 
of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No. 2366/31 dated 12
th  January 2024, the consolidated salary scale 
relating to this post as per aS -03-a  is Rs. 50,285 - 10x1,335 - 8x1,630 - 17x2,170 – Rs. 113,565/-  (per month).  
04. Age Limit:
 the age limit is not applicable to the limited recruitment. 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
950
05. Physical fitness and other Service Conditions
 Health and Discipline - The candidate must satisfy the Auditor General that he/she is duly qualified in respect of 
health and an excellent moral character. the candidate must be of sound physical health. 
 Note - A candidate will be deemed to have been qualified only if he / she has successfully completed in every 
respects the qualifications required to apply for the examination as at the closing date of applications for the 
Examination. 
06. Written Examination:
 (i). this Examination will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 (ii). Particulars on Examination:
A written test consisting of three (03) question papers on following subjects will be held. The total marks for the 
written test is 300 marks as 100 marks per each paper. The minimum marks to be scored to pass the subjects and 
each subject are as follows.
the candidates should appear for all question papers. 
No. Subjects t ime t otal Marks Minimum marks to be  
scored to pass 
01 accountancy 03 hours 100 40%
02 auditing 03 hours 100 40%
03 Business 
Mathematics
03 hours 100 40%
          (iii) Syllabus:
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
i. accountancy Accounting Theory, Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Accounts, Profit and 
Loss Accounts and Balance Sheet, Suspense Accounts and Rectification 
of Errors, Single Entry and incomplete Records, t otal accounts, Stock 
Valuation, Receipts and Payments account, income and Expenditure 
accounts, cash Basis and accrual Basis, capital and Revenue Expenses, 
depreciation, amortization and  depletion, Partnership accounts, 
Provisions and Reserves, Joint Ventures, Bills of Exchange, limited 
companies, accounts of Public corporations, consignment accounts, 
Goods on Sale or Return, container accounts, Branch accounts, 
departmental accounts, Hire Purchase accounts, investment accounts 
and Royalty accounts 
ii. auditing General theory and Principles of auditing
t ypes of audit – internal and External, Statutory and Private, Balance Sheet 
audit, interim and final audit, State audit and audit of Private Enterprises
Role of the External auditor and the internal auditor, their Relationship, 
Personal Qualities and independence
internal control and check – Review, Recording, Preliminary Evaluation, 
authentication and final Evaluation, analytical audit, organization charts 
and flow charts and auditing in-depth

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
951
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
V ouching – Classification of Capital and Recurrent Expenditure and 
income and Expenditure, Sampling Methods and techniques, detection 
and Prevention of fraud and Error
audit of Sales – debtors and Receipts Procedure, Purchase on credit and 
Payments Procedure, Payroll Procedure, cost and inventory Records, 
Books of account and interim and final audit
Verification of Assets and Liabilities – Ownership, Existence and Valuation 
of fixed assets, investments, Stocks, debtors, cash, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities
limited companies – Statutory Books of limited companies, Powers and 
Duties of Directors, Divisible Profits
Public corporations – appointment, Remuneration and Removal of 
auditors, action before acceptance of a new audit, Powers, duties and 
Responsibility of auditors
organization of control of External and internal audits: audit Programmes, 
internal control Questionnaires and charts
audit of Mechanized Systems
Internal Audit, Efficiency Audit, Management Audit, Operational Audit, 
Systems audit, Value for Money audit
investigations
iii. Business Mathematics Series – arithmetic, Geometric, Binomial and Exponential Series, 
compound interest and discounting formulas and their derivation
Equations – linear and Quadratic Equations and their Graphical 
Equivalents, derivatives and their application to the solution of maximum 
and minimum points.
data – collection and tabulation of data, approximation and limits of 
accuracy, Market Research and collection of data
Presentation – Use of Statistics in the presentation of Reports, analysis 
of Statistical information and its interpretation in non-technical language, 
Graphs and diagrams including logarithmic Graphs
07. Interview
a number of candidates as determined by the audit Service commission, out of the candidates, who have obtained 
the highest total marks, from among the candidates who have obtained marks not less than 40 percent for each 
question paper at the written examination, will be interviewed by a Board of interview approved by the audit Service 
Commission. The interview will be conducted only for the scrutiny of certificates/service records of candidates. 
(Reference – 7.2.3.3.4 of the Service Minute) 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
952
08. Conditions of Examination
(I)  Examination fees  
  
The fee for this examination is Rs.1200.  This fee should be paid to any post/sub-post office in the Island on 
or before the closing date of applications with instructions for crediting to the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 
of the Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained in your name should be affixed at 
the specific place of the application.  The examination fees paid will not be refunded fully or partly under 
any circumstances. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt related to the examination fees.   
 (II) Submitting Applications
(a) The application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form annexed to this notification, 
using both sides of the papers in A4 size and should be clearly filled by the candidate himself. The 
application should be prepared so as to include topics from 01 to 05 on first page and topics from 06 
to 09 on second page.
(b) Since the applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form 
shall be rejected without any notice, candidates should recheck whether the perfected application 
form complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and the application is accurately 
perfected including all the particulars and the examination fee has been paid and the particulars of 
the same have been included in the application and the receipt is attached. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt related to the examination fees and a photocopy of the perfected application. 
(c) Candidates should fill the application form in the language in which they wish to sit the examination. 
When preparing the application form, the name of the examination mentioned in its heading is 
required to be written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala medium applications and in English 
in addition to t amil in t amil medium applications.
(d) application for the limited competitive Examination must be sent by registered post to reach 
the commissioner General of Examinations, institutional Examinations organization Branch, 
department of Examinations, Sri lanka, P.o. Box 1503, colombo on or before 06.05.2024.
(e) the words “limited competitive Examination for Recruitment of Superintendents of audit in 
Executive Service category of the Sri lanka State audit Service 2023 (2024)” should be clearly 
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application. applications 
received after that date will not be entertained. candidates should submit their applications through 
the auditor General.
(f) the candidate is responsible for the accuracy of all information given in the application for the 
examination. Applications which are not completed in every respect will be rejected.  No allegation 
that an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.  Moreover, his/her 
admission to the examination does not constitute an appropriate acceptance thereof.  Such admissions 
are subjected to examination in a subsequent requirement. 
(g) Applications will not be acknowledged.  A notification will be published in newspapers by the 
department of Examinations Sri lanka immediately after the issue of admission cards to the 
candidates. if the admission card is not received in 2 or 3 days after the publishing of the advertisement, 
it should be notified to the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
inquiries should be made from the department of Examinations by correctly stating your full name, 
address, National identity card number and the name of the examination by keeping in hand the copy 
of the application kept with you, the copy of the receipt related to the payment of the examination 
fee, and the receipt obtained after registering the letter at the time of mailing the application. if you 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
953
are an applicant residing outside of Colombo, it will be more beneficial to inquire by faxing a request 
letter to the department of Examinations Sri lanka by indicating the aforementioned details and a 
fax number to get a copy of the admission card of the examination to you by fax.
(h) the signature of candidate must be attested by a person authorized to attest the signature of the 
application and the admission card of the examination.
09.  Admission to the Examination
 (i) On the presumption that those who meet the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette, have submitted 
applications, the commissioner General of Examinations shall issue admission cards to the applicants 
within the age limit given in the notice who have sent dully filled applications along with the receipt 
for the examination fee paid on or before the deadline for receiving applications.
 
 (ii) The candidates should sit the examination at the examination center assigned to them. On the first day 
of sitting the examination, the admission card with the attested signature, should be produced to the 
Supervisor of the examination center. any candidate failing to produce his/her admission card shall not 
be permitted to sit the examination.
 (iii) the set of rules to be followed by every candidate has been published in this Gazette. 
 (iv) the issue of an admission card for the examination to a candidate does not indicate that he or she has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination or been deemed eligible to be employed. 
 (v) all candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for holding the examination and releasing the results. in case of violation of those rules, he or she is 
liable to punishment meted out by the commissioner General of Examinations. 
10. Identity of the Candidate
Every candidate should verify his/her identity to the Supervisor relating to each subject that the candidate sits for. 
any of the following documents shall be accepted in that connection. 
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. a  valid driving license acquired in Sri lanka
the candidates should enter the examination center without covering faces and ears in a manner that their identities 
can be verified. Candidates refusing to verify the identity shall not be allowed into the examination center.  
furthermore, the candidates should not cover their faces and ears during the stay in the examination center so that 
the authorities shall be able to identify them. 
 11. Providing misinformation
if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during 
or after the examination. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his/her 
knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed a material fact, he/she shall be liable to dismissal from the public 
service.
 12. decisions taken by the audit Service commission on matters not mentioned in this Notice shall be needed whenever 
necessary.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
954
 13. medium of Examination -
(a) the examination shall be held in the mediums of Sinhala, tamil and English.
(b) A candidate shall sit the examination in the medium through which the qualifications mentioned in Paragraph 
02 for applying for this examination, have been acquired, or he/she shall sit the examination in the medium 
of an official language. 
Note:
(i) a  candidate should answer all the question papers in the same language. 
 14. method of Selection for Appointment -
candidates who have scored not less than 40 % for each of the 03 question papers of the written examination shall be 
selected based on the highest total marks scored. If the same mark has been scored by more than one candidate, final 
decision on the selection shall be taken by the audit Service commission. 
 15. the results sheet consisting of a number of candidates equivalent to the number of existing vacancies out of the 
candidates who have qualified in the written examination will be submitted to the Secretary to the Audit Service 
commission. after that the results shall be informed by the commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates 
personally by post or through the website of the department of examinations, www.results. exams.gov.lk 
 16. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or 
after the examination. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his/her knowledge 
or if he/she has willfully suppressed a material fact, he/she shall be liable to dismissal from the public service. 
 17. The right either for filling/not filling a part or all the vacancies, rests with the Audit Service Commission. Decision 
of the audit Service commission on matters not under scope of the regulations mentioned above shall be deemed the 
final decision. 
 18. in the event of any inconsistency between the notice published in Sinhala, tamil and English languages, the notice 
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
By order of the audit Service commission,
                                                                                                            D.K.Wijesinghe,
                                                                                                            Secretary,
                                                                                                            audit Service commission.
No. 35/a, dr. N.M. Perera Mawatha,
colombo 08,
at audit Service commission,
on 01st of april /2024.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
955
Specimen Application
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Superintendents of Audit in Executive Service 
Category of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service – 2024 (2023)
            (for office use only)
the Medium of language in which 
you are sitting for the Examination
Sinhal a - 2                                               
tamil - 3
English - 4
( Write the relevant number in the cage )
01. Name in full ………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
( in English Block capitals )
02. (i) Present Branch and address : ………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………              
( any change in the address should be notified immediately)
(ii) telephone No:
03. ( female -1 , Male -0)
( Write the relevant number in the cage )
04.       National identity card number
05. (i) your present Service and relevant Grade, class and Segment: ……………………………
 if you are an officer belonging to the Management Service officers’ Se rvice, the date of 
appointment to the class ii / class i / Supra grade : - ……………………………………………………
(ii) Give your consolidated Monthly Salary as at 06.05.2024 :
(iii) date of your appointment to the National audit office (the then auditor General’s department) and 
the continuous period of service completed in this department as at 06.05.2024
(iv) Give the Medium of language in which you passed the qualifying examination for entry to the audit 
Examiners’ Service / Management Service officers’ Service …………………………………………
06. certificate of the candidate 
i declare that the information given in this application is true to the best of my knowledge a nd belief. i also 
agree to abide by the rules of the examination laid down by the commissioner General of Examinations and 
any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found 
that i am ineligible according to the conditions of the examination. 
 
 
 
3 4

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
956
………… ……………. 
date…………………………….. Signature of candidate
07. affix the  r eceipt firmly to the application ( Retain a  p hoto copy o f  t he r eceipts with you)
(i) Number : ……………..………… 
(ii) date : …………………….….. 
(iii) Place of Payment : ……………..…………. 
(iv) amount Paid Rs . : ………………..………. 
08. certificate of the Supervisory officer
i hereby certify that Mr /Mrs./Miss…………………………………forwarding this application placed the 
signature on t he application i n my p resence.
…. ………………………… 
Signature of the Supervisory officer
Name : ……………………………………………..………… 
desig nation : ……………………………….………………………. 
date : ……………………………………………………….. 
09. certificate of the Head of department
i hereby certify that the information given by Mr./Mrs./Miss  …………………………………………………
forwarding this application, in cages 04(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the application is correct according to the 
records available in the department and that he/she is eligible to sit this examination in accordance with the 
rules specified in the Gazette Notification. 
..............................................
date :……………………………… for auditor General           
any changes to the Medium of l anguage indicated for sitting the examination will not be permitted after the 
expiry of the last date for receiving applications
firmly affix the receipt here from an edge
Specimen Application
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Superintendents of Audit in Executive Service 
Category of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service – 2024 (2023)
            (for office use only )
the Medium of language in which 
you are sitting for the Examination
Sinhal a - 2                                               
tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage )
01. Name in full ………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(in English Block capitals )
02. (i) Present Branch and address : ………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………              
(any change in the address should be notified immediately)
(ii) telephone No:
03. (female - 1 , Male - 0)
(Write the relevant number in the cage )
04.        National identity card number
05. (i) your present Service and relevant Grade, class and Segment: ……………………………
 if you are an officer belonging to the Management Service officers’ Se rvice, the date of 
appointment to the class ii / class i / Supra grade :- ……………………………………………………
(ii) Give your consolidated Monthly Salary as at 06.05. 2024:
(iii) date of your appointment to the National audit office (the then auditor General’s department) and 
the continuous period of service completed in this department as at 06.05.2024
(iv) Give the Medium of language in which you passed the qualifying examination for entry to the audit 
Examiners’ Service / Management Service officers’ Service …………………………………………
06. certificate of the candidate 
i declare that the information given in this application is true to the best of my knowledge a nd belief. i also 
agree to abide by the rules of the examination laid down by the commissioner General of Examinations and 
any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found 
that i am ineligible according to the conditions of the examination. 
04-124
Gazette

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
957
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
ministry  of  mass  media
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment  to the   Printing  Service, Executive Service  
Class I, Grade III – 2021 (2024)
Applications are  accepted from the following qualified internal applicants currently working in the Department of 
Government Printing for 06 vacancies in the Executive Service of class i Grade iii category in the Printing department as 
per the instructions  of the Public Service commission. the application should be prepared as per guide lines in the model 
application form that is attached  the end of this notice should be sent by registered post to the following address on or before 
the  deadline to commissioner General  of Examinations, institutional Examinations organization branch, department of 
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla. Make sure to clearly indicate the subject as “Limited Competitive Examination for 
recruitment to Executive Service of class i Grade iii category in the Printing Service of the department of Government 
Printing” on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
also, the tittle of the examination should be mentioned in English in addition to Sinhala, for Sinhala application forms. t ittle 
of the examination should be mentioned in English in addition to t amil, for t amil  application forms.
(a) deadline for applications acceptance is 08.05.2024.
 Note :  delay or lost application forms or any complaints related to the same will not be accepted. applicants should 
also bear the delay and damages incurred in receipt of applications till the end of the deadline.
1. method of Recruitment :
 internal applicants are recruited through a written competitive examination and a general interview as per the guidelines 
of the Printing Service Minute of Government Printing department. Every candidate appearing for the limited written 
competitive examinations conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations must appear for all the prescribed 
question papers. the applicants who have scored more than 40% in each question paper and those of who have scored 
the maximum  mark as per the rules of the Public Service commission will be eligible for the general interview 
considering the number of available vacancies. Eligibility will be checked by an interview panel approved by the 
Public Service commission (marks  will  not be given in the interview).
 The number of applicants to  be appointed and the effective date  of appointment  will be determined as per the Public 
Service commission  Regulations.
2. Salary scale  :
 Public administration Salary circular No. 03/ 2016 dated on 25
th  of february 2016, is Sl-1-2016 : Rs. 47,615 – 10 x 
1,335 –   8 x 1,630 – 17 x 2,170 – Rs. 110,895 monthly salary scale .
3. Service conditions of the Post  :
3.1. This  is a permanent and pensionable position and you will be subjected to policy decisions taken by the 
Government in the future regarding the pension scheme you are entitled to. further you have to contribute to 
Widow and orphan’s/Widowers’ and orphans’  pension scheme. you have to pay the  contribution for the same, 
as prescribed by the Government from time to time.
3.2 Officers who recruited  for this post on internal basis will undergo  of one year probation period.
3.3 According to the  Public Administrative Circular No. 18/ 2020 of 16.10.2020, one must have proficiency in  
other official languages or official languages.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
958
3.4 this appointment will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the rules of procedures, conditions 
included in the amendment and other departmental orders of Public Service commission procedural rules, the 
establishment code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, and the Government  finance  Regulations 
and the minute of Printing Service of the department of Government Printing published in the extraordinary 
Gazette No.1816/ 12 dated as at 26.06.2013.
4. Recruitment position, qualifications and number of vacancies.
4.1 Number of vacancies is Six (06).
4.1.1 the number of vacancies for the  post of assistant Government Printer (Production) is four (04). the 
number of vacancies for the Post of assistant Government Printer (Printing Editor) is two (02) .
 
4.1.2 Recruitment Eligibilities for the posts of assistant Government Printer (Production) and assistant 
Government Printer (Printing Editor)
(a) Being an officer in the supervisory management assistant (Technical) category of the Printing 
Service  with not less than 15 years of service in a departmental post of Management assistant 
technology category in the Printing department.
(b) Having Two certificates on Printing Technology at the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing or a recognized 
institution. (the duration of a course should not be less than one year.)
(c) Not having received a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the Provisions mentioned in 
Public Service commission circular No. 01/ 2020 and it’s related circulars.
5. Physical Qualifications –
(a) Every candidate should be willing to work in any Part of Sri lanka.
(b) Must be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the position.
6. Age Limit :
 Maximum age limit is not applicable for internal applicants working in a permanent post in the department.
7. Other Qualifications :
(a) applicants must be citizens of Sri lanka.
(b) applicants must be  Excellent character.
(c) Should not be a priest of any religious sect.
(d) It is mandatory to have completed the qualifications mentioned in table 4 before the deadline of applications on 
08.05.2024 for recruitment to the post.
8. Written Examination and General Interview –
8.1 Written examination.
8.1.1 this examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations.
8.1.2 Subjects and syllabus related to the written examination:
 the limited competitive examination for recruitment to Executive Service of class i Grade iii category of 
the Printing Service will be conducted as a written test consisting of the following subjects and syllabus.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
959
Duration Maximum marks Pass marks
(a) General administration 3 hrs 100 40
(b) Printing t echnology 3 hrs 100 40
Name of the exam paper Syllabus
(a) General administration Questions consists of the rules and regulations in the Establishment code. 
Public Service commission Procedural rules and departmental orders to 
check its knowledge and apprehension.
(b) Printing t echnology i. Pre-Press
 t ype setting
 lay outing papers
 creating computer designs 
 Works  in process camera
 Planning and lay-outing by using film roles
 Ripping
 Setting images
 forming Plates
 forming polymer plates
ii. Printing –
 Printing Offset Litho papers
 Printing Offset Litho Web
 Printing letter Press forms
 Printing letter Press Rotary
iii. Post - Press :
 cutting
 folding, Gathering and inserting
 Wiring Sewing sections and Perfect Binding
 forming case covers
 Making ledgers
 foiling
 Re-binding and special binding works
iV . others:
 cutting using dye, Blind Embossing
 foil laminating creasing and perforating
 costing and Estimating
 Security Printing 
V . future Requirements :
 Setting Plates
 Printing continuous Stationery
 digital printing
Vi. compiling :
 Pre-Editing
 Proof Reading
 Examining Machine proofs

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
960
Name of the exam paper Syllabus
Vii. Maintaining  and repairing Mechines and Machine parts in 
equipments, Maintaining  and repairing Mechines and Electric parts in 
equipments, Maintaining  and repairing Mechines and Electronic parts 
in equipments, Maintaining and repairing computer and electronic 
parts
 Maintaining and repairing building (including electric parts)
 (applicants are given opportunity to answer four (04) questions from 
four  (4) preferable parts out of the presented questions from the each 
part mentioned above.)
8.2 General	Interview :
8.2.1 Marks will not be awarded for common interview test, the purpose of which is expected to be achieved is 
to check whether the candidate has fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the notification issued as per 
the approved Printing Service minute and also to examine the physical fitness.
9. Conditions of the Examination :
9.1 the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, t amil and English medium, candidates can appear for the exam 
in any language as their choice. candidates must answer all the papers of this exmination in the same  language. 
a  candidate will not be allowed to change the medium of examination mentioned in his application afterwards. 
Every candidate should appear for both papers (02).
9.2 Examination fee :
 The examination fee  is Rs. 1,200.00. Payment should be done at any post office located in the island to be 
deposited the acccount of the revenue Heads of 20-03-02-13 of commissioner General of Examinations. the 
receipt obtained in the name of the applicant should be  affixed  at one end in the prescribed space in the 
application form. (it is useful to keep a copy of the receipt with you.)
9.3 Examination fee is non refundable  for any reason.
9.4 this exam will be held in colombo. the date of exam will be announced later.
9.5 Incompleted application forms that are not submitted and will be rejected without any intimation.
Note : y ou will not be allowed to enter the examination hall without the  admission card, on the day of 
commencement of the examination, one should be forwarded to the examination hall only with the  
admission card with his/ her signature that has been certified  and to be handed over to the Head of the 
Exam centre. the issuance  of an admission  card to the candidate shall not be deemed to qualify to appear 
in the examination.
9.6 applications should be prepared by the applicant on a4 size paper measuring 22 x 29cm and applicants should 
prepare their applications in such a way that from 1.0 to 3.7 information are on the first page and from 3.8 
to 6.0 are placed on the second page and the rest is on the third page and the relevant information should be 
clearly entered  in their own handwriting. Not conforming to the model application form standed.  incompleted 
applications will be rejected without prior notice. It will be helpful to keep a copy of the relevant application.  
further more the applicant should check whether the completed application form is in accordance with the 
model application form mentioned in the examination notification. Otherwise the application will be rejected. 
applications should be  prepared as  per the  attached model  application form.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
961
9.7 The receipt of applications  will not be notified. A media release will be published immediately after the 
admission card is issued  to the candidates. if the admission card is not received within  2 or 3 days after the 
publication of the notification, it should be informed to the Department of Examinations as  mentioned in the 
application. If you are a candidate from outside of Colombo. It would be very effective to send a copy of your 
application, a copy of the registration receipt and fax number in your request letter to receive the admission card.
9.8 the commissioner General of Examinations  has the power to postpone or cancel the examination on the 
approval of Public Service commission.
9.9 Candidates of the Examination are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations regarding the conduct of the examination. if he or she violate of these rules and regulations  shall 
be liable to punishment as may be imposed by the  commissioner General of Examinations.
9.10 Candidates should satisfy the Head of the examination  hall regarding the subject in which they are appear in the 
examination. any of the following documents will be accepted :-
i. National identity card.
ii. a  Valid Passport.
iii. Valid Sri lankan driving licence.
 also exam candidates should enter the exam hall without covering their face  and both ears so that their identity can 
be verified. Applicants who refuse to confirm their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, the applicant must 
remain uncovered so that the examination authorities can  recognize the candidate.
 Note :
(a) No documents or copy should be attached to the application form.
(b) candidates who fail to submit the documents when requested will not consider their applications.
(c) applicants  should send applications through their head of department. Before  submitting the applications, it  
is mandatory  for all applicants to get their signatures  certified by a staff officer  of the department.
10. Penalty for providing false information:
 if a candidates is found to be ineligible before or during  the examination or after examination  or at any time, his 
candidature will be disqualified. If it is found that he/  she has knowingly submitted false information or he/ she has 
deliberately suppressed  and important information.
11. Public Service commission rules of procedure, circulars issued from time regarding Government Service and Printing 
minute applicable to the Executive Service of class i Grade iii in the Printing Service and the conditions of further 
amendments therein shall apply to these posts.
12. And the officers selected for this position should work day and night in any place in Sri Lanka as  per  the requirement 
of the Government not only in the Government Printing department.
13. Officers who recruited for this post must agree to work at any location  abroad based on the situational requirements 
of the Government of Sri lanka.
14. any matter not mentioned in  these regulations shall be decided by the  Public Service commission.
15. if it appears that there is any inconsistency on inconsistency between the language texts of this announcement published 
by the Sinhala, tamil and English media, in such a case the Sinhala Media announcement will be dealt with.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
962
16. The Public Service Commission has the Final  decision on whether to fill  up the above vacancies or not or partially 
fill up.
 as order of the Public Service commission.
     V . P. K. Anusha Pelpita,
     Secretary, Ministry of Mass Media.
03rd april, 2024. 
SPEciMEN  aPPlicatioN  foRM
For office  use only
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Printing Service Executive Service of Class I 
Grade III Posts of Assistant Government  Printer (Production) and Assistant Government Printer 
(Printing Editor) in the Department of Government Printing 2021 (2024)
1.0 Medium :     2.0 Preference
 language Medium in Examination  the Post/posts applied  for is (as per preference)
 Sinhala  – 2     Preference 01
 t amil  – 3
 English  – 4     Preference 02
 (Put the relevant number in the box)
         assistant Government Printer (Production)         – 1
        assistant Government Printer (Printing Editor)   – 2
        (Enter the number of the post you are applying for in 
        the blank box in the order of preference.)
 Note :
 in the event that an applicant applies for more than one of the above mentioned posts, separate applications should not 
be submitted for each post, and the order of preference for each post should be recorded in a single application. also 
there is  no possibility to change the preference order later.
3.0 Personal information :
3.1 full name (in English block letters) : ...................................................................................................
 ..............................................................................................................................................................
3.2 Name with initials to end in English block letters : .............................................................................
 (e.g.: SilV a  a .B.)
 ..............................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
963
3.3. full Name (in Sinhala/t amil) : .............................................................................................................
3.4 Permanent address (in English block letters) : ....................................................................................
3.5 Permanent address (in Sinhala /t amil) : ..............................................................................................
3.6 Mobile  Number :
3.7 National identity card No. :
3.8 Gender : 
 Male -0, female -1 
 (Put the number in relevant box)
3.9 Marital status :
 Unmarried -1, Married-2
 (Put the number in relevant  box)
3.10. date of Birth :  
 date :                       Month :                         y ear : 
3.11 age as on last date of receipt of applications :
 days :                       Months :                         y ears : 
3.12 are you sending applications for open competitive E xamination? : ...............................................
4.0 Eligibility information :
4.1 Service detail of the department of Government Printing : 
4.1.1 date of appointment for Printing Service : ...............................................................................
4.1.2 current position held :..................................................... attached Section: .............................
4.1.3 Work Experience in the printing service as at 08.05.2024:
  days :                       Months :                         y ears : 
4.2 Names of printing technology courses  and details of institutions that had followed duration of not less than 1 
year :
Course I Course II Course III
Name of the course
institution 
duration
language Medium
Validity date of certificate

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
964
5.0 Cash receipt :
(Paste the receipt  here firmly )
(a Photocopy of the receipt keep with you will be helpful)
6.0 Applicant’s certificate:
 that the information stated herein is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and that i have obtained 
the information required for applying for this post as per the Printing Service Minute and amendments published in the 
extra ordinary Gazette No. 1816/ 12 of 26.06.2013.  i declare that have fulfilled the qualifications and have attached 
the receipt No. ............... and dated on ..........  which the examination fees were paid.
 i also agree to act in accordance with the rules of the examination and any decision taken to cancel my candidature 
before or during the examination or thereafter if i am found to be ineligible under the conditions of this examination. 
i also declare that i will abide by the rules laid down by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conduct of the examination.
  ..............................
  Signature of the applicant.
 date :....................................
7.0 Certificate from the staff Officer in charge of the section in which the applicant is working;
 certifying that the applicant ............... is working as an Officer ............................... holding a post in the Department  
of Government Printing. I submit his application for further affairs.
  ..........................................
  Signature 
  Officer in charge.
 date : .......................
 Name of the Officer in charge of the section : ..........................................
 Position  : .........................................................
 address  : ..................................................
 (Must be  certified with an official Seal)
8.0 Attestation of Applicant’s Signature (should be as per 9.10 (d) of the advertisement)
 i hereby certify that this application ............. is (full name)  submitted and the prescribed examination fee has been 
paid and his/ her signature ..................... has been affixed before me on the date of affixing the said receipt.
  .......................
  attestator’s Signature.
 date : .......................

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
965
 Name of the Officer : ..........................................
 Position  : .........................................................
 address  : ..................................................
 (Must be  certified with an official Seal)
9.0 Certificate of Head of Department/ Institution :
 the applicant Mr./Mrs./ Miss .......................... is currently employed as a .............................................. in this 
department. However he/she is required to meet all requirements as per No. 2 as mention in the minute of Printing 
Service  of the department of Government Printing of the extraordinary Gazette No.  1816/ 12 of 26.06.2023 
publication.
 also he/she has to quality to have not undergone any disciplinary procedure in accordance with the provisions 
mentioned in the Publice Service commission  circular No. 01/ 2020 and amendments made thereto.
 i herebey certify that he/ she has completed the satisfactory service of 5 years presently to the above mentioned date 
and that  his/ her application has been recommended accordingly.
  ......................................................
  Signature of Head of department.
date : .......................
Name of Head of department : ..........................................
Position  : .........................................................
address  : ..................................................
(Must be  certified with an official Seal)
04-213

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2024
966
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  laNKa.
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2024
 APRIL  05.04.2024 friday — 22.03.2024 friday 12 noon
  10.04.2024 Wednesday –– 28.03.2024 thursday 12 noon
  19.04.2024 friday –– 05.04.2024 friday 12 noon
  26.04.2024 friday –– 10.04.2024 Wednesday 12 noon
 mAy  03.05.2024 friday — 19.04.2024 friday 12 noon
  10.05.2024 friday –– 26.04.2024 friday 12 noon
  17.05.2024 friday –– 03.05.2024 friday 12 noon
  22.05.2024 Wednesday –– 10.05.2024 friday 12 noon
  31.05.2024 friday –– 17.05.2024 friday 12 noon
 JuNE  07.06.2024 friday — 22.05.2024 Wednesday 12 noon
  14.06.2024 friday –– 31.05.2024 friday 12 noon
  20.06.2024 thursday –– 07.06.2024 friday 12 noon
  28.06.2024 friday –– 14.06.2024 friday 12 noon
  
  
 Gangani Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2024.