

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2426$06 - 2025 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks i`ÿod - 2025'03'03
No. 2426/06 -  moNday,   march  03 ,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
1a- PG 7049 - 504 (03/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
DIRECTIONS  TO PREvENT  ThE DIRECT  OR INDIRECT  uSE Of mOvAbLE OR ImmOvAbLE 
PROPERTIES  bELONGING  TO ThE STATE, STATE CORPORATIONS , OR STATuTORY bOARDS  
DuRING  ThE PERIOD  Of AN ELECTION  fOR ThE PROmOTION  Of OR IN PREjuDICE  TO ANY 
PARTY, GROuP OR CANDIDATE  OR ObSTRuCTING  ThE CONDuCT  Of ThE ELECTION .
The Election commission does hereby issue the following directions under article 104 B (04) (a) of the constitution for the 
purpose of preventing the use of any movable or immovable property belonging to the State, any State corporation or authority 
or Statutory Board or Public company for the purpose of promoting or demoting the election of any candidate of any political 
party or independent group or using such properties in a manner that would obstruct the conduct of the election.
 R. M. A. L. Rathnayake, M. A. P. C. Perera,  
 chairman, member,  
 Election commission. Election commission.  
 Ameer Faaiz, A. Shanmuganathan, Prof. Lakshman Dissanayake,
 member, member, member,
 Election commission. Election commission. Election commission.
at Elections Secretariat,
Sarana mawatha, 
rajagiriya,
on this 03rd day of march, 2025.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2025
2a
In terms of article 104(B)(04) (a) of the constitution “The Election commission shall have the power during the 
period of the election to prohibit the use of any movable or immovable property belonging to the State, any State corporation 
or authority or Statutory Board or Public company for the purpose of promoting or preventing the election of any candidate 
of any political party or independent group contesting the election. Under subparagraph (b) of that article it shall be the duty 
of every person or officer in whose custody or under whose control such property is for the time being, to comply with, and 
give effect to such directions issued by the Election Commission. All Public Officers including all Secretaries to Ministries, 
chief Secretaries of Provinces should comply with these directions.  also, the heads of institutions should ensure that all 
officers coming under their control do comply with these directions. These directions are applicable to all public institutions 
such as ministries, commissions, departments, Provincial councils, Local authorities, cooperatives, State corporations, 
Statutory Boards, State authorities, State Banks, State Universities, and Public companies.
02. Responsibility of the heads of State Corporations, Statutory boards that possess State properties
2.1  An officer should be nominated  for each State corporation, Statutory Board, authority, and company of 
which more than 50% of shares are held by the government to take responsibility and supervise State properties 
thereof.  
2.2 any property of any State corporation, authority, Statutory Board, or Public company should not be allowed 
to be used in such a manner so as to promote or demote any political party, independent group, or candidate. 
It shall be the responsibility of the head of the Institution to prevent the use of properties of the Institution 
for political purposes and the head of the Institution shall pursue action to prevent the use of State properties 
to promote or demote any political party, independent group, or candidate. heads of the Institutions who do 
not comply with these directives properly will be dealt with treating the breach of these directives as an 
election offense. 
 
03. Officials 
3.1 The skills and knowledge of all public officers and their time are considered the property of the State. Therefore, 
3.1.1 Even a public officer with political rights shall not engage in political promotions inside the office premises 
or outside the office premises without formally availing of leave. 
3.1.2 Officers without political rights should not engage in political activities even after availing of leave. 
3.1.3 Public officials who do not have political rights will commit an offense if they use their personal social 
media accounts or other accounts to make statements or publicize anything that either promote or undermine 
any political party, independent group, or candidate.
3.1.4 Even public officers with political rights should refrain from engaging in campaign activities during office 
hours using government resources. It will be considered an offense if they permit the dissemination or 
publication of false news, disinformation, or intentionally altered or distorted information about any political 
party, independent group, candidate, or election through their personal social network accounts.
3.2 Preventing misuse of State properties for political activities  
 
 3.2.1 No officer or employee is entitled to use State properties viz. vehicles, communication equipment, printers, 
telephone facilities, photocopy machines, media equipment, circuit bungalows, and another public employee 
or anything else belonging to the State for political activities.
3.2.2  When the Election commission determines that it is necessary to further investigate information or 
complaints received by the commission citing that one or more orders issued by the Election commission 
to prevent the misuse of State properties in connection with the election is/are violated, the officials under 
whose charge the necessary documents, both print and electronic, minutes, registers, and reports on 
recruitment or appointments lie should pursue action to produce them to the Election commission or to 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2025
3a
any other official authorized for the purpose by the Election Commission when demanded by the Election 
Commission to do so. Public officers concerned shall be and are bound to make detailed statements when 
required to make an oral or written statement by the Election Commission or any other official authorized 
for the purpose by the Election commission for the purpose of a further investigation carried out into any 
violation of orders or any one of them issued by the Election commission. 
3.2.3 Every public officer shall be and is bound to pursue action to be present at the Election Commission in 
person to make every necessary explanation and produce all necessary documents when summoned by the 
Election Commission to inquire into any violation of orders or any one of them issued by the Election 
commission regarding the misuse of State properties in connection with the election. 
3.3 Recruitment, appointment, promotion, and transfer of officers 
3.3.1 Officers should refrain from making any recruitment, appointments, promotions, and transfers of whatever 
nature in public institutions including the recruitment, appointments, promotions, and transfers done in 
compliance with the prescribed procedure under the powers vested in the commissions appointed by the 
constitutional council, during this period without the approval of the Election commission. 
3.3.2. however, when the Secretary to the relevant ministry or the head of the relevant department opines that 
there is a need to implement without postponing an island-wide program or an internal arrangement for 
the recruitment/promotion of officers that has been commenced before the parliamentary election is 
announced and when the relevant authorities can ascertain that any other island-wide recruitment / promotion 
in the public service or in the State institutions is made properly devoid of political interference, the 
concurrence of the Election Commission may be granted. In such cases, a request in that regard should be 
made to the Election commission and the prior written approval of the commission obtained.
3.3.3 When recruitment is made in Public Service at divisional or provincial levels for the purpose of avoiding 
interruptions to sanitary, janitorial or maintenance services and of maintaining essential services, such 
recruitments should be made with the concurrence of the Election commission and it is the responsibility 
of relevant authorities to carry out such recruitments in a transparent manner and free of political intervention.
3.3.4 General transfers of all public officers including teachers and principals of government schools who would 
be deployed for election duties in the area where the election is to be held should be suspended for the 
period starting from the day on which the nominations are received and ending two weeks after the date 
of poll. 
3.3.5 Transfers of public officers or officers of State Corporations/ Statutory Boards who would not be engaged 
in election duties should not be carried out on political grounds during the period of election and it is the 
responsibility of all relevant authorities to give effect to transfers without leaving room for complaints of 
political intervention. 
3.3.6 This is not applicable to transfers done on disciplinary orders and if any transfer is required to be made on 
the exigency of service or under special circumstances, such requirement should be brought to the notice 
of the Election commission and obtained the approval. 
3.4 Preventing misdeeds connected to postal vote marking 
 
 3.4.1 Public officers should not bring or use any equipment prohibited by the Election Commission inside postal 
voting stations. 
3.4.2 When public officers mark their postal ballots, it shall be an offense for them to take / display/cause to display, 
issue to public media, or upload to social media photographs of the ballot paper or the marked ballot or the 
polling station.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2025
4a
3.4.3 It shall be an offense to take photographs of the postal polling station or share these images with the public 
media or post them on social media networks.
04. functions, mobile Services and Trade fairs 
4.1 functions: 
4.1.1  Functions such as laying foundation stones, opening ceremonies, and vesting in the public utilizing 
government funds and State properties should not be organized or conducted during the period of an election 
since the politicians who attend these functions may express opinions and views on the election and conduct 
of these functions ceremonially may lead to the promotion or cause prejudice to any party, group or candidate. 
4.1.2  In the case of functions scheduled before the publication of the poll notice for the election and which cannot 
be canceled or postponed, the Election commission should be informed thereof for instructions of the 
commission to proceed therewith. In the event of conducting such a function as involves spending 
government funds, and if the promotion of or prejudice to any party/group or candidate has taken place at 
such function, the officials who organized such a function should be held responsible for the same. 
4.1.3 The officers who organize functions/events should bring to the notice of the Returning Officers of the 
respective districts where such events are scheduled to be held during the period of the parliamentary 
election well in advance enabling them to make arrangements to observe such events and keep records. 
4.1.4 It is strictly prohibited to make any statement or to do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners/posters/
leaflets/notices promoting parties/groups or candidates at any function conducted spending State funds 
during the period of an election, and the officers or authorities of State institutions who organize or fund 
such functions should prevent such promotions taking place.  
4.2 mobile Services and Trade fairs
4.2.1  Since there is a tendency to use mobile services and trade fairs conducted during an election period utilizing 
public funds and State property to facilitate the public for the promotion of or causing prejudice to parties/
groups or candidates, organizing or conducting of such trade exhibitions or carnivals should be avoided 
during the period of an election.  
4.2.2 any trade exhibitions or carnivals scheduled before the Notice of Poll is published and cannot be canceled 
or postponed during the election period should be reported to the Election commission for guidance. If 
such events are conducted using government funds and result in promoting or prejudicing any party, group, 
or candidate, the officials responsible for organizing them will be held accountable.
4.2.3 The officers who organize mobile services and trade exhibitions should also take action to bring to the 
notice of the Returning Officers of respective districts where such events are to be held during the period 
of the election well in advance enabling them to make arrangements to observe those and keep records. 
4.2.4 It is strictly prohibited to make any statement or do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners /posters /
leaflets /notices promoting parties /groups or candidates at mobile services and trade exhibitions conducted 
spending State funds during the period of an election and the official or State institutions that organize or 
fund such events should prevent such promotions or causing prejudice to any candidate or party or group.  
05. Implementation of Programs to Provide Common Amenities, Aids, and Special Projects
5.1 Long-term or medium-term special programs may be implemented for the provision of facilities to the public 
or for the development of the country or continuous programs to provide citizens with common amenities 
and cannot be suspended due to an election. however, action should be taken to ensure that no promotion of 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2025
5a
or causing of prejudice to any party/group or candidate is taking place through such special projects or 
continuous programs after the issue of the Notice of Poll. 
5.2 during the period of an election the launch of programs to distribute State lands, conduct land kachcheris, 
award title deeds for State lands, deeds to transfer ownership of houses and reliefs to residents, providing 
subsidies, fertilizer, agro equipment for the plantation industry, and providing sports goods, kitchen and 
household items, equipment for self-employment, bicycles, solar power lamps, building material for house 
constructions, the release of housing loans/ compensations, etc. should be suspended. however, if it is apparent 
that the suspension of the programs will impede the meeting of the needs of the general public, the Election 
commission should be consulted for necessary instructions. In the event the programs are already initiated 
or for which approval has already been obtained to proceed, it should be the responsibility of the officers who 
are charged with such programmes to implement them with the participation of only the relevant officials 
without leaving any room for the promotion of parties/groups or candidates. 
06. v ehicles 
6.1 All officers in whose custody the pool of vehicles belonging to the State including motor cars, jeeps, cabs, 
and buses, should take extra care in maintaining the vehicle pools and assigning such vehicles during the 
period of an election so as to prevent such vehicles from being used for the promotion of election propaganda 
campaigns of any political party, independent group or candidate. It should be noted that assigned vehicles 
belonging to the State and vehicles hired to be used for specific duties are included in the said category. During 
the period of election running charts should be properly maintained particularly in respect of pool vehicles 
and vehicles other than assigned vehicles and the running charts should be scrutinized by a staff officer on a 
daily basis to make sure that such vehicles are not used for any political propaganda purpose. action should 
be taken to ensure that State vehicles are not used for the promotion of or causing prejudice to any political 
party on the pretext that they are used for official purposes with fake entries to that effect in the running charts. 
6.2 No vehicle other than those two vehicles assigned for the purpose of providing security to h.E. the President 
can be operated without the exclusive registration number issued by the Department of Motor Traffic and as 
such no Minister or any member of his/her staff or another person can use State vehicles or vehicles belonging 
to public institutions without the relevant registration number. Therefore, Secretaries of ministries / heads 
of Departments and officers in whose custody the pool of vehicles belong to the State should ensure that no 
vehicle belonging to State department or State institution is operated with garage numbers or fake numbers.
6.3 all Secretaries of ministries / heads of departments should ensure that public funds are not utilized for the 
use of airplanes or helicopters or other vehicles for political propaganda activities. 
07. State offices, buildings, schools, and other buildings belonging to the State and Circuit bungalows
7.1 Government office buildings, schools, other buildings, and circuit bungalows belonging to the State too are 
State property. Therefore, such buildings should not be used to conduct political meetings, discussions, etc. 
It should not be construed that these directions prevent the buildings and halls which can usually be reserved 
on payment of specified fees by any political party/ group, or candidate, from being so reserved during the 
period of an election on payment of relevant fees without causing any discrimination towards any Party/ 
Group / candidate. 
7.2 It is strictly prohibited to provide State-owned circuit bungalows, rest houses, and holiday resorts free of 
charge to persons engaged in election propaganda activities. It is strictly prohibited to reserve any State-owned 
circuit bungalows, rest houses, or holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in political propaganda 
activities. circuit bungalows, rest houses, and holiday resorts belonging to the State or State institutions and 
situated in respective areas should not be reserved on a full-time basis during the period of election to any 
politician, officer, or any other person. Also, no person who avails accommodation at the said circuit bungalows 
should be allowed to engage in promoting any party, group, or candidate. any election propaganda posters, 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2025
6a
banners, cutouts, billboards, etc., are not to allow to be displayed on State-owned buildings or within their 
premises or store therein.
7.3 When playgrounds or bare lands and halls or such other buildings belonging to the State, Provincial councils, 
and Local authorities are reserved for the purpose of holding election propaganda rallies to promote a Political 
Party/ Independent group or candidate, such reservation should be done in such a transparent manner that no 
special favor, priority or discrimination is meted out to any party, independent group or candidate.  also, such 
venues should not be reserved for the use of any party / group/ candidate or for any other purpose for a 
prolonged period of time so that such venues are made not available for the use by other parties. 
08. General 
8.1 State property, State institutions, vehicles, equipment, buildings, lands, and public officers in particular, should 
not be allowed to be used for the promotion or demotion of parties, groups or candidates in relation to the 
election. No officer should allow any misdeeds such as attaching public officers of State institutions and 
vehicles belonging to the State or State institutions or rented vehicles stationed outside the electoral area to 
offices or institutions situated within the electoral area on the pretext that such attachments are done to carry 
out urgent duties or special development project work in electoral areas but used to promote (or to prejudice) 
parties, groups or candidates to take place. Officers, vehicles, and equipment, belonging to Media Units of 
any State institution including Provincial c ouncils, Local authorities, State c orporations, Boards, State 
Banks, other Statutory institutions, and State Universities should not be used for the promotion of any party, 
group or candidate. If entertainment equipment such as podiums, stages, decorations and vehicles, airplanes 
and helicopters belonging to State institutions are usually hired under normal circumstances, such hiring 
during the period of an election should be done in a transparent manner offering equal opportunities for all 
parties/ groups to hire such items. 
8.2 Promotion of or causing prejudice to any party/group or candidate should not be done by way of broadcasting 
/telecasting / publishing through television, radio, and press advertisement or by displaying billboards at 
public places spending public funds to give publicity to development programmers of the government or to 
anniversaries / commemorations. 
8.3 all private cable television channels, private electronic and print media institutions, websites, and mobile 
and fixed telephone service providers should act in such a manner during the period of the election so as to 
not cause any breach of election laws and in compliance with the media guidelines, directions and instruction 
circulars issued by the Election commission and it shall be the responsibility of the Secretary to the ministry 
of mass media and the chairman/director General of the Telecommunication regulatory commission who 
are responsible for regulating of such institutions to ensure strict compliance thereto by the institutions 
aforesaid.
8.4 It shall be the responsibility of the heads of State institutions/ provincial or Local authorities and mayors/
chairmen/Urban commissioners/Secretaries and heads of each division under whose custody or control street 
lamp posts and telephone poles, public roads and pavements, etc. fall, to prevent such properties situated 
within their respective areas of authority from being used for display of banners, posters, flags, billboards, 
and other decorations and for advertising by way of painting or digital panels, with the intention of promoting 
or demoting parties / groups / candidates.
8.5  The heads of ministries, departments, or State Institutions should take action to remove photographs, 
advertising boards, flags, billboards, and decorations which have been erected before the commencement of 
the election period and are being displayed at public places for the promotion or demotion of parties / groups 
/ candidates.  The heads of Local Bodies and the commissioners and Secretaries of such Bodies should take 
action to remove advertising boards, flags, billboards, and decorations erected at public places within their 
area of authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2025
7a
8.6 The directions preventing the use of State properties for the promotion or demotion of the election of any 
candidate at this election should be strictly adhered to without any favour. The Secretaries to ministries should 
pursue action to give instructions in this regard to the heads of departments, State corporations, and other 
institutions coming under the purview of the respective m inistry. a lso, the Secretaries of m inistries and h eads 
of institutions should ensure that all officers of their respective institutions comply with these directions and 
instructions.
8.7 Public officers should essentially draw their attention to Article 104b (02) of the Constitution which reads as 
“It shall be the duty of the commission to secure the enforcement of all laws relating to the holding of the 
election and it shall be the duty of all authorities of the State charged with the enforcement of such laws, to 
cooperate with the commission to secure such enforcement”. 
8.8 Please note that the responsibility of bringing the contents of these directions to the notice of respective 
Ministers, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers, and the staff of the Ministers lies with the Secretary to the 
respective ministries while the responsibility of bringing such matters to the notice of Governors, chief 
ministers and other ministers of the Provinces lies with the chief Secretary and the Secretaries of the respective 
Provincial ministries.
8.9  The Secretaries to commissions should pursue action to bring these directions to the notice of the chairpersons 
and members of such commissions, as applicable.
8.10 In addition to the provisions of the Constitution, it is the duty of the Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting 
Officer of Ministries/ Departments/ institutions to prevent or to take action to prevent the misuse of State 
properties.
8.11 Negligence and/or omission of the duties entrusted statutorily or otherwise to Local authorities and other 
State corporations, or Statutory Boards and Public companies shall be treated as a breach of these directions.   
8.12 Non-compliance with these directions is a punishable offense under Article 104(22) of the Constitution of 
the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
N.b.:-  The term “State” wherever it appears in these directions means all State institutions including State ministries, 
departments, Provincial councils, Local authorities, State corporations, Statutory Boards, commissions, State 
banks, State universities, Nationalized companies, and institutions of which more than 50% of shares are held by 
the State or State-owned companies. 
The term “public officers and employees” wherever it appears in these directions means all persons who engage and 
are employed in any manner whatsoever in the institutions aforesaid and receive a salary or allowance.
EoG 03 - 0121
PrINTEd a T ThE dEP ar TmENT oF GoVErNmENT PrINTING,  SrI LaNKa.