

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1535
wxl 1"990 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'10'21
No. 1,990 – FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER 21,  2016
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... 1566
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... 1536
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 1538
By-Laws ... ––
1535
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th November, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th
October, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
G
ANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.— (i) Appropriation (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 15, 2016.
(ii) Engineering Council, Sri Lanka Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 29, 2016.
(iii) Sri Lanka Sustainable Development Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 12, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1536
Posts – Vacant
MALIMBADA  PRADESHIYA SABHA
APPLICATIONS are calling from Male/Female which have qualifications for the recruitment and have the permanent residency
in Malimbada Pradeshiya Sabha authorized premises, for the post of Assistant Librarian III which has a vacancy in Malimbada
Pradeshiya Sabha.
When applying for the above post you should apply by the application which is prepared by your clear hand writing
or type setting in both sides of the A4 sheet according to the specimen application form which is published here with.
Application should be sent by registered post to reach the address "Secretary, Malimbada Pradeshiya Sabha, Thelijjawila"
before 12.00 noon of 07th November 2016 and the applications received after the specified date will be rejected. When sending
the applications, it should be specified clearly that "Recruitment for the Assistant Librarian Grade III - 2016" on the top left
hand corner of the envelope.
1. Name of the Post.– Assistant Librarian III.
2. Salary Scale.– PL 1-3/2016 Rs. 24,250 -10x250 -10x270 -10x300 - 12x330 - Rs. 36,410.
3. Educational Qualifications.– Should pass at least 06 subjects with 02 credit passes in G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in not more than 02 attempts. Field experience is an additional qualification for the recruitment.
4. This post is permanent.
5. Physical suitability.– Should have sufficient physical and mental suitability to perform the duty of the post.
6. Other Qualifications :
- Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
- Should be a permanent resident in the Malimbada Pradeshiya Sabha authorized premises continuously in
03 immediate consecutive years prior to the date of calling applications.
- (Residency should be confirmed by the document issued by counter signing by the Divisional Secretary on
the certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari)
- Should have an excelent character.
- Age should not be more than 45 years and not be less than 18 years to the closing date of the application.
- Should not be a person who dismissed from the Government or Local Government Service.
- Shuld be fulfilled all the qualifications required to the closing date of application.
- Priority should be given to the employees who are working in the Malimbada Pradeshiya Sabha.
7. Method of recruitment.– Applicants who have fulfilled the relevant qualifications are calling for an interview.
8. Method of applying.– Photo copies of the below mention certificates should be attached with the application.
Originals should be forwarded in the interview :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) National Identity Card,
(iii) Documents to prove educational qualifications,
(iv) Documents to prove the professional qualifications or experience,
(v) Grama Niladhari certificate of residency which is obtained recently.
- Secretary of the Malimbada Pradeshiya Sabha has the full authority to delay or cancel the recruitment
after or in between the calling of applications.
- Applications without having photocopies of the certificates and incomplete application should be
rejected.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1537
9. Conditions of Employment :
- Should agre with the official language policy,
- Employee is liable to act according to the Government Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Other regulations which is imposed by time to time and
sub constitutions which is imposed by Malimboda Pradeshiya Sabha.
- All the things relevant to the recruitment procedure also considered in thie regard and the application you
forwarding is considered as a service condition.
J. P. V. M. G. G. D
E ALMEDA,
Secreary,
Malimbada Pradeshiya Sabha,
Thelijjawila.
26th September, 2016.
Specimen Application Form
MALIMBADA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN III - 2016
01. Name of the applicant (with initials) :–––––––––––.
02. Names denoted by initials  :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent residential address  :–––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year  :–––––––––––,  Month  :–––––––––––,  Date  :–––––––––––.
05. Age as at the closing date of application :
Years  :–––––––––––.  Months :–––––––––––.  Days  :–––––––––––.
(Should attach a certified copy of the Birth certificate here with)
06. Period of permanent residency in Malimbada authorized premises (Should attach a copy of Grama Niladari Certificate) :
–––––––––––.
07. National Identity Card Number (Should attach a photocopy)  :–––––––––––.
08. Sex  :–––––––––––.
09. Marital status  :–––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number  :–––––––––––.
11. Nationality  :–––––––––––.
12. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka, if so by hereditary/by registration  :–––––––––––.
13. Educational Qualifications :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
(Should be compulsorily attached the photocopies of the certificates to confirm)
14. Experience and the professional qualifications  :–––––––––––.
15. Other qualifications (if only) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1538
16. Are you convicted in courts regarding any criminal offence :–––––––––––.
If so nature of the offenc and type of the punishment ? :–––––––––––.
I certified that the information given by me is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and I hereby declared that,
I obey, if revealed any information furnished by me is false and incorrect before the selection of the post of Librarian Assistant
III of the Malimbada Pradeshiya Sabha, I will be considered as not suitable person to the post of Assistant Librarian III and if
reveal such information after the employment I will be dismissed from the post without paying any compensation.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for the applicants who are already employed  :
Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................................... is working in this institution as a ....................................... if he/she has been
selected for the above post I will be able/not be able to release from this post and herewith I am certifying that he/she is not
subjected to any punishment and I am forwarding after recommendation of the application which is forwarded by him/her.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Rubber Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
10–1120
Local Government Notifications
ARANAYAKA  PRADESHIYA  SABHAWA
The notice declared under the Act No. 15 and Article of 14 and 24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha of 1987
THE notice declared according to the Act No. 15 and Article of 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Road/Roads mentioned in the
schedule below by Aranayake Pardeshiya Sabha in the Kegalle District in the Province of Sabaragamuwa, belongs to the
Aranayake Pradeshiya Sabha in the Kegalle District in the Sabaragamuwa Province.
It is hereby notified that if there is any objections against the land Surveyed and marked for the Roads/Road by the
Pradeshiya Sabha, the so called land owners who oppose are hereby announced to prove their ownership according to the
Act No. 15 and Article of 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha within one month from this notice.
If there is any objection is not submitted within this period, it is hereby declared to the General Public, that the
Roads/Road mentioned in the schedule is a accepted and maintained as a Roads/Road belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha-
Aranayake.
T. M. C
HANDRAWA THI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Aranayake.
At Pardeshiya Sabha Office,
Aranayaka,
29th September, 2016.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1539
Name of the Road : Mellagala Makulgahahena (Mellagala Panagamuwa) Road
The  road commences and end of the road : The road starts from Wakirigala to Egodagoda Panagamuwa Road.
Grama Seva Division & No. : 16 Wakirigala
Length of Road : 208.50m Width: 08 ft.
Name of the lands and their owners that lies to the Left of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. P.H. Piyasena Makulgahahena Land
2. Mr. P.H. Dayananda Makulgahahena Land
3. Mr. S.M.K. Senavirathna Makulgahahena Land
4. Mr. R.P. Upali Karunarathna Dhangahamada Land
Name of the lands their owners that lies to the right of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. P.H. Piyasena Makulgahahena Land
2. Mr. P.H. Dayananda Makulgahahena Land
3. Mr. S.M.K. Senavirathna Makulgahahena Land
In accordance with the Plan No. 45/2015 dated 15.02.2015 of the authorized Surveyor H.M.R.T.K. Herath :
Name of the Road : Lebudena Road
The road commences and end of the road : The road starts from By-road of Thalagolla to Lebudena Road
Grama Seva Division & No. : 44-B Dhampelgoda Division
Length of Road : 276m W idth: 10ft
Name of the lands and their owners that lies to the Left of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. N.P . Gunadasa Kahagollehena Land
2. Mr. N.P. Ajantha Priyalal Padmakumara
Mr. N.P. Somapala
Mr. N.P. Karunadasa Lebudenawaththa Land
Mr. N.P. Piyasena
Name of the lands and their owners that lies to the Right of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. W. Sarath Wickramasinghe Kahagollehena Land
2. Mr. N.P . Gunadasa Kahagollehena Land
3. Mr. N.P. Ajantha Priyalal Padmakumara
Mr. N.P. Somapala
Mr. N.P. Karunadasa Lebudenawaththa land
Mr. N.P. Piyasena
In accordance with the Plan No. 105/2016 dated 25.04.2016 of the authorized Surveyor H.M.R.T.K. Herath :
Name of the Road : The Road is Selawa (West) Batahira Pragathi Mawatha (from Wetakedeniya
to Rahalagala Road)
The road commences and end of the road : The road from Wetakedeniya to Rahala gala road
Grama Seva Division & No. : 41-C Selawa Batahira (west) Division
Length of Road : 1,270m. W idth: 12ft
Name of the lands and their owners that lies to the Left of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. Wickramanayake W eralugahahena land
2. Mrs. M.G . Chandrika Weerasinghe Weralugahahena land
3. Mr. D.G . Wickramasinghe W eralugahahena land
4. Mr. Nimal Jayathilaka W eralugahahena land

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1540
5. Conservation land belong to Government
6. Mrs. P.G. Swarnakumari Wijesinghe W eralugahahena Land
7. Mr. K.W.G . Dasanayaka Batadombagahahena Land
8. Mr. D. Gamini Ranaweera W eehaluwahena Land
9. Mr. M.G . Gamini Rupasinghe W eehaluwe Galpotthhaena Land
10. Mr. G.G . Dharmasena W eehaluwahena Land
11. Mrs. K.Elis Pinnalandahena Land
12. Mr. R.A. Ranjith Wimalasena Koswattha Land
13. Mr. T.G . Martin Koswatthehena Land
14. Mr. G .G .  Jayasekara Koswatthehena Land
Name of the lands and their owners that lies to the Right of the road from the start to the end :
1. Mrs. M.G. Chandrika Weerasinghe Weralugahahena Land
2. Mr. D.G . Wickramasinghe W eralugahahena Land
3. Mr. Nimal Jayathilaka W eralugahahena Land
4. Mr. K.W.G . Dasanayaka Batadombagahahena Land
5. Conservation land belongs to Government
6. Mr. G.G . Dharmasena W eehaluwahena Land
7. Mr. G .G . Jayasena Dhambugahahena Land
8. Mr. R.A. Ranjith Wimalasena Koswattha Land
9. Mr. T.G . Martin Koswatthehena Land
In accordance with the Plan No. 57/2016 dated 07.03.2016 of the authorized Surveyor, H.M.R.T.K. Herath.
Name of the Road : The road from Kandawaththa 42 Colony to road of running Kurullagala
Temple
The road commences and end of the road : The road start from Kandewaththa 42 Colony, which is enter the place of
Kurullagala Temple to Kurullagala Viharaya (temple)
Grama Seva Division & No. : 15-D Kandewaththa Division
Length of Road : 283 m. W idth: 15ft
Name of the land and their owners that lies to the Left of the road from the start to the end :
1. Dhanakirigala Viharaya Kurullaketugalahena Land
2. Mr. R. Somathilaka Godamadahena Land
3. Mrs. M. Rejina Godamdahena Land
Name of the land and their owners that lies to the Right of the road from the start to the end :
1. Dhanakirigala Viharaya Kurullaketugalahena Land
2. Mr. C.M.M. Thissa Wijerathna Kurullawawaththa
In accordance with the Plan No. 106/2016 dated 25.04.2016 of the authorized Surveyor H.M.R.T.K.Herath.
Name of the Road : The road near the Goda Asseddhuma to
Name of the Road : The road commences from Thennepita Waththa at the running road of
Dampelgoda to Erubudhupitiya to running road of other bank of paddy land
The road commences and end of the road : The road starts from Thennepita Waththa to other bank of paddy land
Egodagoda Road
Grama Seva Division & No. : 47-D Dampegoda
Length of Road : 100 m. W idth: 08 ft.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1541
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the left of the road from the start to the end
1. Mr. M.P. Wimaladasa Beligahawaththa land
2. Mr. P.D. Jemis Thennepitawaththa land
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the right of the road from the start to the end
1. Mr. P.D. Dharmapala Thennepitawaththa land
2. Mr. P.D. Jemis Thennepitawaththa land
In accordance with the Plan No. 107/2016 dated 25.04.2016 of the authorized Surveyor H.M.R.T.K.Herath.
Name of the Road : The road near the Goda Asseddhuma to Kurullagama Viharaya (temple)
(Galathara Kandewaththa Sarvodhaya road)
The road commences and end of the road : Goda Asseddhuma to the Kurullagala of the road
Grama Seva Division & No. : 15-D Kandewaththa
Length of Road : 250 m width: 08 ft.
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the left of the road from the start to the end
1. Mr. M.R. Wilson wijayasiri Goda Assedduma Hunuwalahena land
2. Mr. S.C. Rajapaksha Kaliyaldeniya Kumbura land
3. Mr. E. Karunasinghe Helakande Kumbura land
4. Mr. W.A.D. Wijesinghe Helakande land
5. Mr. K.R. Wijeth unga Boo Welikada land
6. Mr. E.S. Edirisinghe Boo Welikada land
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the right of the road from the start to the end
1. Mr. M.R. Wilson wijayasiri Goda Assedduma Hunuwalahena land
2. Mr. M.C. Rajapaksha Kaliyaldeniya Kumbura land
3. Mr. K.R. Wijeth unga Boo Welikada land
4. Mr. E.S. Edirisinghe Boo Welikada land
In accordance with the Plan No. 395/2015 dated 26.12.2015 of the authorized Surveyor H.M.R.T.K.Herath.
10-468
–––––––––––––––––––––
ELAHERA PRADESHIYA SABHA
Local Government Institution (Passed by - laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952
IT is published in terms of Section 03 of Local Government Institution (passed by - laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 that it was
adopted by Elahera Pradeshiya Saba under resolution No. 06  of 20th November 1998.
RESOLUTION (ADMINISTRATIVE  COMMITTEE  DECISION  No. 552 )
It is hereby decided by virtue of powers vested by Sections 122 and 126 read with Sections 122 and 126 read with
Section 221(b) of Pradeshiya Saba Act, No. 15 of 1987 in terms of sub Section (1) of Section (3) of Local Government
Institution (passed by - laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952, that parts No. 01 -42 of parts I and II of Local Government Institution
(passed by - laws) model - by laws published in part iv of gazette No. 520/7 of 23.08.1988 which are formulated by Minister of
Local Government, Housing and Constructions under Section 2 of Local Government Institution Act, No. 06 of 1952 should

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1542
be accepted as by - laws to be implemented within Elahera
Pradeshiya Sabha from the date on which those parts are
published in part iv of gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
U. W. K. RA THNAYAKA,
Secretary,
Elahera Pradeshiya Saba,
Bakamuna.
12th August 2016,
Office of Elahera Pradeshiya Saba,
Elahera.
10-480/1
–––––––––––––––––
ELAHERA PRADESHIYA SABHA
By - Law on unpleasant and dangerous
businesses of Local Government Institution
(passed by -laws) Act
IT is hereby notified to the general public that I decided to
implement the following resolution under administrative
decision No. 579 of 12.08.2016 in terms of Powers vested in
me as the Secretary of Elahara Pradeshiya Saba as per the
provisions of Sub-section 9(3) of Pradeshiya Saba Act, No.
15 of 1987.
U. W. K. R
ATHNAYAKA,
Secretary,
Elahera Pradeshiya Saba,
Bakamuna.
Office of Elahera Pradeshiya Saba,
12th August 2016.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby decided to complete the schedule set out in by
- law No. 21 on unpleasant and dangerous business of part II
Local Government Institution (passed by - laws) Act, made
by Local Government, Housing and Constructions, under
Section 2 of Local Government Institution (passed by - law)
Act, which is published in Extra Ordinary Gazette No. 520/7
of 23.08.1988 and then published in part IV of Gazette No. 704
of 28.02.1992 to the effect that it was approved by a resolution
of provincial council of North Central Province.
Unpleasant Businesses :
1. Producing and selling packets of Murukku, Wade and
bites
2. Running a place for selling dried fish
3. Producing and selling of animals foods
4. Producing and selling of milk, yoghurt and ice cream
5. Running a business for packing fruits, fish or other
foods in tins
6. Running a business for producing syrup or fruits
7. Running a grinding mill
8. Cutting and polishing of gem
9. Manufacturing and selling plastic furniture
10. Re - charging and repairing of batteries
11. Running a Place for manufacturing timber furniture
12. Running a carpentry shed
13. Running a business for concrete products
14. Keeping ironware
15. Running a laboratory
16. Running a place for collecting models
17. Running a dental clinic or place for making dentures
18. Running a catering service centre
19. Running a paddy mill operated by machines
20. Running a business for producing organic or inorganic
manure
21. Producing and packeting spices
22. Manufacturing of cement blocks by using machines
23. Producing coconut shell charcoal or timber charcoal
24. Running a carpentry shed operated by machines
25. Running a business for grinding coffee and grains
26. Running a place for engraving/ timber  carving
27. Running a garage
28. Running a bridal dressing centre
29. Running a business for auto painting
30. Running a saloon
31. Running a fish business
32. Running a meat business
33. Running a business to keep leather for selling
34. Running a whole sale whole sale and retail eating
house
35. Running a Maldives fish business
36. Running a veterinary Infirmary
37. Keeping perishable foods for selling
38. Keeping of over 150 kgs of dried fish, fish or salted
fish
39. Adding ice, salt or Drying fish or meat
40. Running a business for drying tobacco
41. Keeping new or old metals
42. Running a timber mill
43. Cleaning fertilizer or lime gunnies and selling
44. Running a super market
45. Running a place for keeping aquatic animals and plants
46. Running a milk collecting centre

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1543
47. Producing and selling gruel.
48. Running a place for producing and selling break liners.
49. Running a business for packeting salt.
50. Producing and selling gruel.
51. Running a business for boiling paddy and producing
rice.
52. Supplying foods and accommodations.
53. Mushroom cultivation.
54. Packeting and selling tea powder.
55. Selling bakery raw materials.
56. Running a retail tea outlet.
57. Repairing of grass cutters.
58. Running a cakes or sweets selling centre.
59. Running a place for collecting goat milk or cow milk.
Dangerous Business :
1. Running a press operateed by electricity.
2. Running a place for blasting and selling granites.
3. Running a metal crusher.
4. Running a business for manufacturing silencers.
5. Running a place for sellings gas filled cylinders.
6. Running a place for repairing of injector pumps.
7. Running a place for producing and selling metals.
8. Running a place for electricians.
9. Producing and selling of fire work items or crackers.
10. Running a Business for producing stone monuments.
11. Running a white coir mill.
12. Running a pharmacy for selling ayurvedic medicines.
13. Running a pharmacy for selling Western drugs.
14. For producing vegetable oil.
15. For producing coconut oil.
16. Timber mill operated by machines.
17. For keeping empty gunnies and empty bottels.
18. Running a business for repairing foot bicycles or motor
bikes.
19. For Scattered painting.
20. For a stain and steel work shop.
21. For a place to sharpen carbon saws.
22. Running a place for motor winding.
23. For a fuel filling station .
24. For storage of hey.
25. Running a spring workshop.
26. Running a Blacksmithy.
Unpleasant and Dangerous Businesses
1. Running a Business for fabric painting, dyeing, dry
cleaning and Batik Works.
2. Running a Laundry.
3. Running a Business for Melting Metals.
4. Running a place for repairing Motor Bikes.
5. Running a a tin workshop.
6. Running a place for manufacturing vehicle Bodies.
7. Running a Business for producing Mosquito Coils.
8. Running a Business for burning Coral Lime Stone or
Lime Stone.
9. Running a Welding Shop.
10. Running a Business for producing and selling of Agro
Chemicals.
11. Running a Place for washing motor bikes or three
Wheelers.
12. Running a Place for washing Vehicles.
13. Running a Place for selling building Meterials.
14. Storage and selling of damaged items (Old metals,
Bottles).
15. Running a Fibre work Place.
16. Running a lathe Machine.
17. Running a metal, iron, copper remains sales Centre.
18. Running a Business for manufacturing Stainless Steel
hand Rails.
19. Running  a liquor shop.
20. Selling barb wires and nets.
21. Running a Business for Producing  Flower Pots.
22. Manufacturing of Drinking Water Bottles.
10- 480/2
––––––––––––––––––
THIHAGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
BY virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by Section
139 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby
notified that Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha has decided to make
following order.
H. H. A
SANKA KUMARI,
Secretary,
Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
18th August, 2016.
Decision
BY virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by
Section 139 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I,
Secretary of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha hereby notify under
Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, that the owner or
resident of any residene, building or land should submit
periodical reports regarding the rental or annual valuation or
the extent thereof for the purpose of Assessment or Acreage
Tax within the area of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
10-471

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1544
PRADESHIYA SABHA -
KARUWALAGASWEWA
Local Authorities Act No. 06 of 1952 (Standard
By-laws Act)
I, Herath Mudiyaselage Chandrarathna Herath, Secretary of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya  Sabha do hereby, by vitue of
powers vested in the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha
by Section 9 Sub section 3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 which shall be read with Section 3 of the Local
Authorities Act, No. 06 of 1952 (Standard By - Laws) notify
that it has been resolved by Resolution No. 66 of 06.05.2016
that the By-law of Pradeshiya Sabha Solid Waste
Management be implemented within the limits of the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha with effect from
06.05.2016.
H. M. C
HANDRARATHNA HERATH,
Secretary and the Officer Exercising
the Powers and Responsibilities of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby resolved under Sub  Section 3 of Section 9 of
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 that, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3 of the By -law Section 06
of the Local Authorities Act, No. 06 of 1952 the By-law
made by the Provincial Minister of Local Government of
North-Western Province under and by virtue of powers vested
in him by Section (2) Sub Section (1) of Chapter 261 of the
Local Authorities Act, No. 06 of 1952 (Standard By - Laws)
which shall be read with paragraph "A" of Section 2, Sub-
section (1) of the Provicial Councils (Consequential
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and published in Part IV (A)
of the Gazette No. 1933/40 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka the By - Laws of Pradeshiya Sabha
Solid Waste Management Shall be implemented within the
limits of Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha in accordance
with the paragraph 3 of the By-Law Act, No. 06 of 1952.
B
Y - LAW OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT OF KARUWALAGASWEWA
PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. This By -Law shall be cited as the By -Law of Solid
Waste Management.
02. This By-law is enacted to control and oversee the
activities of segregating, collecting, transporting,
storing and running a place of transferring solid waste
that is generated in the public places, private
properties, roads, junctions within the limits of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. The owner or tenant of any property within the
Pradeshiya Sabha Limits shall keep the premises free
from dirt and fit for healthy life.
04. Any owner of a property or the tenant shall collect,
segregate or dispose the waste that generates within
his or her property or must act in accordance with the
provisions of this By -law.
05. (i) All the owners or tenants of premises shall gather
the solid wastes that generates within their
premises by sweeping or using other means.
(ii) All the owners or tenants of the premises shall,
in accordance with the provisions depicted in
item 8 to 20 of the Sub-sections, shall, either
segregate them or make arrangement to it.
(iii) The owner or the tenant shall maintain this bins,
bags or containers that are used to store or dispose
solid waste in good condition for the purpose of
the provisions of this By - law.
(iv) Following the notice regarding accepting solid
waste bins, bags or containers given by the
Karuwalagaswewa from with the limits of the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha in
accordance with Section 5 (1), solid wastes shall
be handed over to the relevant unit or system of
collection of solid waste determined by the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha time to time
in accordance wih Sub Section (1).
(v) Collecting, storing or disposing of solid wastes
shall not be effected in the manner that causing
detriment to the health of the surrounding by
the owner, tenant or visitors of a premises.
06. (i) No solid wastes shall be disposed on the roads,
streets, public places, drains, watercourses, lakes
or sea by anyone.
(ii) Solid wastes shall not be burnt in the public
places within the limits of the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iii) An owner or tenant of a premises, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 7, shall hand over
the solid wastes to the person permitted to
collect sold wastes, in the event of permission

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1545
us not obtained by him to deposit, repair or
process solid wastes on the roads.
(iv) The solid wastes that are not prepared, repaired
or disposed in accordance with the provisions
of Section 7 and collected by an authorized solid
waste collecter, such solid waste shall be
disposed in accordance with provisions of this
By-law.
07. (i) Any owner or tenant of a premise may dispose
the solid wastes that are not disposed for the
following reason within their premises :
(A) In the event that the area is prohibited to
deposit solid wastes by the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha,
(B) The solid wastes prescribed by the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha
(ii) Solid wastes could be buried or burnt in a furnace
or kiln made in conformity to the plan or standard
approved by the Secretary within the premises
by the owner or the tenant.
(iii) If a request is made by an owner or a tenant of a
premises to the secretary for a compost bin and
if required space is available within the premises
for the purpose, such bin shall be provided to
him on part or full subsidy.
(iv) The home garden wastes that build up within a
premises shall be removed forthwith by the owner
or tenant of the premises in accordance with the
provisions of this by - law. The remaining waste
after the removal shall be handed over to the
waster collectors of the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha by making the payment
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(v) When a tree beside a road or its branch is cut it
shall be removed forthwith or remnants shall be
handed over to the waste collectors of the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha by making
payment determined by the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(vi) No person shall allow animals under his control
to excrete on the roads or public places. It it
happens, it is the duty of the owner to clean it
forthwith, in accordance with this By-law.
(vii) No Person shall dispose wastes from vehicles
within the limits of Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha on the roads,  Public places,
reservations of watercourses.
(viii) When a person requires to get a plan for
construction of repair a building passed,
provisions for removal of wastes projects within
the site shall be provided in the Plan.
H
OUSE  PREMISES
08.  (i) Wastes gathered by sweeping a premises by an
owner or a tenant shall be segregate the wastes
as follows :
(a) Foods and other perishable things,
(b) Reusable or recyclable things,
(c) Dangerous things,
(d) Excrete of animals and remains and
unpleasant things,
(e) Waste like dusts and mud gathered by
sweeping the compound.
(ii) The waste segregated by the owner or tenant
shall be deposited in a bin or container and be
kept in the place. Food and perisshable things
shall be kept in safety bin or container free from
seepage and shall be tightly covered to prevent
creatures like mouse from entering into it. Death
bodies of animals shall be handed over to the
waste collectors of the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha by making payment
determined by the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha time to tome.
(iii) The owners or tenants of premises shall hand
over the waster depicted in the Sub-section 8(1)
(A), (B) to the waster collectors of deposit in the
bins provided by the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha.
09. (i) All the tenants of apartment blocks shall
segregate the waste from their flats as follows :
(a) Foods and other perishable things,
(b) Reusable or recyclable things,
(c) Dangerous things,
(d) Excrete of animals and remains and
unpleasant things,
(e) Waste like dusts and other gathered by
sweeping the compound.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1546
09. (i) The owners or tenants of the building specified
in Section 9(1) shall keep bins or containers made
in accordance to the specification shown under
(a). (b) and (c) of this By-law and keep them clean.
(iii) When a owner or a tenant of buildings shown in
Sub-section 9 (1) fail to comply with the
provisions of Sub Section (ii) the Secretary has
the authority to direct him to keep such bins or
containers on or before the stipulated date
determined by the Secretary and it shall be the
duty of the owner or tenant to act according to
it.
(iv) The Wastes segregated by the owner or tenant
of a ground  or upper floor shall be deposited in
the bin or containers.
(v) It is the duty of the authorized waste collector to
remove the wastes mentioned in items (a), (b) of
Section 9(1). The wastes that are not collected
by the authorized waster collectors, such wastes
could be deposited in the bins or containers
maintained by the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha or could be handed over to the waste
collectors of the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(vi) The dangerous wastes shown in paragraph 9(i)
(c) shall not be mixed with the wastes shown in
(a), (b), and (c) in any manner. The owner or
tenant of a premises shall dispose them through
the authorized waste collectors.
10. (i) It is legal to the Secretary to supply waste bins
free of charges with the prior approval of the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha for the use
of the slum dwellers.
(ii) All the slum owners or dwellers shall deposit
the wastes generate within their slum in the bins
kept near to his dwelling in the following
manner.
(a) Foods and other perishable things
(b) Reusable or recyclable things
(c) Dangerous things
(iii) The wastes that have been mentioned in Sub
Section (a), and (b) of the Section 10(ii) shall be
collected by the collector authorized by the
Secretary.
S
HOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or Manager of a shop or an office
shall segregate the wastes that generates within
his office of shop as follows :
(a) Foods and other perishable things
(b) Reusable or recyclable things
(c) Dangerous things
(d) Dust and other waste collects when
sweeping.
(ii) The segregated wastes shall be deposited and
kept in an appropriate place until they are
removed.
(iii) The owner of the manager of the shop could
hand over the wastes to the authorized waste
collectors in accordance with items (a) (b) of
Sub section 11(i)
(iv) The wastes that are segregated to the approved
standard within an office or shop with multi
stories shall be deposited in separate bins or
containers and be kept in a suitable place until
they are removed.
(v) The wastes that are segregated by the owner or
manager of the shop or office categorically stated
in the Sub -Section 11 (iv) of this By - law shall
be deposited separately in bins or containers.
The owner or the manager has the right to hand
over them to the authorized waste collectors in
accordance with items (a) and (b) of the Sub
Section 11 (i) of this By -law.
(vi) The items mention is Sub Section 11(i) that are
not removed by the authorized waste collectors
shall be handed over to the waster collectors of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha my Making
payment determined by the Karuwalagaswewa
time to time.
(vii) The dangerous wastes mentioned in item (c)
above shall not be mixed with the wastes
mentioned in (a), (b) and (c) above in any manner.
Such wastes shall be handed over to the waste
collectors who run a special service for such
purpose by the owner or the manager of the shop
or office.
(viii) It is the duty of the owner or the tenant of a shop
or an office to maintain a waste bin or container
in order to refrain from causing health hazards
to the neighbours or the people who work in the
shop or office.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1547
HOTELS
12. (i) People who run hotles or the people  who has
written authorization shall segregate the waste
that generates within their premises so follows :
(a) Foods and other perishable things
(b) Reusable or recyclable things
(c) Dangerous things
(d) Dust and other waste collects when
sweeping.
(ii) The wastes segregated by the owner or the
authorized people shall be deposited in separate
bins and keep them in a suitable place until they
are removed.
(iii) The owners or the those who have written
permission form them shalll deposit the wastes
in bins or containers made of plastic or metals
and tightly closed to prevent rest and other
creatures from entering into them.
(iv) The wastes that are shown in item (a) and (b) of
the Sub-section 12(i) of this By-law shall be
handed over to the authorized waste collectors.
(v) It is legal to deposit the wastes that are not
collected under Sub-section 12(iv) of this By-
law in the bins or containers on the places named
for the purpose.
(vi) The dangerous wastes mentioned in item (c)
above shall not be mixed with the wastes
mentioned in (a), (b) and (c) above in any manner.
Such wastes shall be handed over to the waste
collectors who run a special service for such
prupose by the owner or the manager or by the
person who possess written athority to run it.
S
ELLING OF VEGETABLE AND FRUITS
13. (i) The owners or the people in charge of the shops
selling vegetables and fruits shall segregate the
wastes that generate within their shops as
follows:
(a) The vegetables and fruits not fit for human
consumption and other perishable goods.
(b) Resusable or recyclable goods.
(ii) The wastes that are mentioned in item (a) of the
Sub-section 13(i) shall be deposited in the bins
or containers made of plastic or metal and shall
be closed tightly to prevent rats or other insects
and creatures from entering into them. Other
wastes shall be deposited in suitable bins or
containers.
(iii) The wastes that are shown in item (a) and (b) of
the Sub-section 13(i) shall be handed over to
the waste collectors.
(iv) It is legal to deposit the wastes that are not
undertaken under the provisions in paragraphs
(a) and (b) of Sub-section 13(i) in the bins or
places named for the purpose.
S
ELLING OF MEAT, FISH AND EGGS
14. (i) No animals other than approved ones under the
Butchers Ordinance shall be slaughtered in the
place mentioned in the licence issued for a
adhock reason by the Chairman under any law.
(ii) The owner or the person in charge of the stalls
for selling meat, fish and eggs shall segregate
the wastes as follows :
(a) The vegetables and fruits not fit for human
consumption and other perishable goods.
(b) Resusable or recyclable goods.
(iii) The segregated wastes shall be deposited in
separate bins or containers. In accordance with
the Sub-section 14(ii) the bin or container shall
have lids and they shall be tightly closed to
prevent rats and other creatures entering into it.
Other wastes shall be deposited in other
containers or bins.
(iv) The wastes shall be handed over to the
authorized waste collector in accordance with
Sub-section 14(ii).
(v) It is legal to deposit the wastes mentioned in
paragraph (a) and (b), that are not removed under
the Sub-section 14(iv) in the bins provided to
deposit wastes or in the places named.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1548
PAVEMENT OR MOBILE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
15. (i) People involve in pavement or mobile trades, if
the place is a road, shall dispose the wasts
generates there shall be in the waste bin or
container made to the specimen provided. No
wastes shall be disposed on the roads, public
places or drains.
(ii) No bins or container shall be kept beside the
pavement or mobile business to cause
inconvenience to the traffic or pedestrians.
(iii) The payment or mobile howkers shall segregate
the wastes generates during their business
activities as follows :
(a) The vegetables and fruits not fit for human
consumption and other perishable goods,
(b) Resusable or recyclable goods,
(c) Dangerous wastes.
(iv) The segregated wastes shall be deposited in
separate bins or containers. In accordance with
the Sub-section 15(iii) the bin or container shall
have lids and they shall be tightly closed to
prevent rats and other creatures entering into it.
Other wastes shall be deposited in other
containers or bins.
(v) The wastes shall be handed over to the
authorized waste collector in accordance with
item (a), (b) of Sub-section 15(iii).
(vi) The dangerous wastes mentioned in item (c)
above shall not be mixed with the wastes
mentioned in (a) (b) and (c) above in any manner.
Such wastes shall be handed over to the waste
collectors who run a special service for such
purpose by the owner or the manager or by the
person who possess written authority to run it.
(vii) It is legal to deposit the wastes mentioned in
paragraph (a) and (b) of Sub-section (v) of this
by-law, that are not removed under the Sub-
section (v) in the bins provided to deposit wastes
or in the places named. Before the pavement or
mobile howkers hand over their wates to the
waste collectors, they shall pay the charges
decided by the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha time to time.
F
ACTORIES
16. (i) All the factory owners or producers shall
segregate the waste that generates within their
premises as follows :
(a) Foods and other perishable things,
(b) Reusable or recyclable things,
(c) Dangerous things,
(d) Dust and other waste collects when
sweeping.
(ii) The wastes shall be handed over to the waste
collectors in accordance to items (a), (b) and (c)
of Sub-section 16(i) by making the payment
determined by Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha time to time.
(iii) The wastes shall be disposed in accordance to
the conditioned depicted in the licence provided
under the Envirnmental Statute No. 12 of 1990
of the North western Province.
(iv) The dangerous wastes mentioned in item (c) of
Section 16(i) above shall not be mixed with the
wastes mentioned in (a), (b) and (c) above in any
manner. Such wastes shall be handed over to the
waste collectors who run a special service for
such purpose by the owner or the manager or by
the person who possess written authority to run
it.
E
XCAVATING, BUILDING AND DEMOLISHING
17. (i) When an excavation, building or demolishing
is carried out on a road or in a public place, the
wastes generate their shall be kept within the
compound until it is removed or stored in a place
approved by the Secretary.
(ii) In accordance with the Sub-section 17(i) of this
by-law, the wastes shall be handed over to the
waste collectors of the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha by making the payment
determined by the Secretary of the Secretary of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1549
HOSPITALS
18. (i) The wastes that are generated within the
compound of a hospital shall be segregate as
follows :
(a) Foods and other perishable things
(b) Reusable or recyclable things
(c) Dangerous things
(d) Dust and other waste collects when
sweeping
(ii) The waste mentioned in item(a) and (b) of the
sub section 18(1) shall be deposited in different
containers and kept in a suitable place until they
are removed. They shall be handed over to the
waste collectors of the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha under the special arrangement
after making the payment determined by the
Council tie to time.
The wastes that are mentioned in 18 (1)  ( c) and
(d) shall not be allowed to mix with other wastes.
Such wastes shall be disposed in accordance with
the provisions provided in the licence issued
under Environment Statute No. 12 of 1990 of north
Western Province.
P
RIV ATE HOSPITALS AND MEDICAL LABORATORIES
19. (i) The wastes that generate within the compound
of a private hospital shall be segregate the waste
that generates within their premises as follows.
(a) Foods and other perishable things
(b) Reusable or recyclable things
(c) Dangerous things
(d) Dust and other waste collects when
sweeping
(ii) 19(i) The wastes that are mentioned in item(a)
and (b) of the sub section 19(i) shall be deposited
in separate bins and be kept in a suitable place
until they are removed. They shall be handed
over to the waster collectors under the special
arrangement of Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(iii) The wastes shall be handed over to the waste
collectors of Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha by marking the payment determined by
the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha time to
time in accordance to the provisions under item
(c) of sub section 19 (1).
(iv) The wastes mentioned under item (c ) and (d ) of
19(1) shall not be allowed to mix with other wastes.
Such wastes shall be disposed in accordance with
the provisions. Provided in the licence issued
under Environment statute No.12 of 1990 of North
Western Province.
O
THER PREMISES
20. (i) Those who carry out business that are not
mentioned in sections 8 to 19 or a person who
carry out any activity related  to religion, culture
or education with the  participation of people
shall remove the wastes generated from their as
follows :
(a) Reusable or recyclable things
(b) Dangerous things
(c) Dust and other waste collects when
sweeping
(ii) Persons who organize any activity under sub
section 20(i) shall inform the Secretary beforehand
in order to make arrangement to remove wastes
generate during the activity.
(iii) Segregated wastes shall be deposited in bins and
be stored in a suitable place.
(iv) The wastes mentioned in items (a),(b) and (c) of
sub section 20 (i) shall be handed over to the
waste collectors by making payment  determined
by Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha time to
time.
(v) However, for the removal of waste mentioned in
item (a) and (b) above generated during the
activities that take place in a religious place
without business motivation, the clause ''making
payment determined by the Council time to time
'' is not applicable''.
(vi) (i) The dangerous  wastes mentioned in item (c)
above shall not be mixed with the wastes
mentioned in (a), (b) and (c) above in any manner.
Such wastes shall be handed over to the waste
collectors who run a special service for such

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1550
purpose by the owner or the manager or by the
person who possess written authority to run it.
STREETS AND COMMONPLACES
21.  (i) Action shall be taken by the Chairman according
to the decision  of the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha to plan, administrate and
control the following activities.
(a) Keep the common places  such as roads,
drains, public markets within the limits of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(b) Take action to erect sufficient numbers of
garbage tubs in the places identified suitable
for the purpose and main them well.
(c) Mobile garbage tubs shall be provided for
public use by the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha at the request of the
organizers of the special occasions determined
by the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha
or other ceremonies
(d) Maintaining well the waste containers
provided in the places identified suitable and
removing wastes from them before they cause
nuisance to the public.
(e) To inquire into the complaints about the
activities mentioned in the previous section
and to so take action without delay.
D
UTIES OF THE KARUWALAGASWEWA PRADESHIYA SABHA
22. (i) To plan, oversee and control the following action
in consultation with the Chairman and the
approval of the Council.
(a) Motivate people to reuse or recycle in order
to reduce wastes.
(b) Educate people in segregating, storing and
disposing waste and propagate these
activities.
(c) To provide facilities to small investors and
those who involve in reuse and recycle
activities.
(d) To provide incentives to those who involve
in  reuse and recycle activities in order to
reduce wastes.
(e) To regulate methods for the disposal of
wastes.
(f) To formulate time to collect wastes for every
areas the mode of payment and conditions
for removed of wastes within the limits of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha in
accordance with the decision of the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(g) To take action to dispose wastes handed over
to the waste collectors on schedule.
(h) To transport safely the dangerous wastes that
are not removed by the authorized waste
collectors.
(i) To hand over the waste generated by cleaning
roads, drains and public places and that are
collected by the waste collectors of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha,
excluding the dangerous and the other wastes
prescribed by the Secretary, to the authorized
waste collectors or take action to dispose
them in a organized method.
(j) To take action to process food and perishable,
reusable or recyclable waste fully of partly
including the wastes collected by the waste
collectors of Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha as soon as possible and remove the
remaining wastes according to the accepted
means.
(k) To coordinate all the activities related to the
disposal of wastes in collaboration with the
Provincial Environmental Authority of
Northwestern Province.
(l) To take action obtain licene to burn or deposit
them in a safety places under the
Environmental Statute No. 12 of 1990 of
Northwestern Province.
(n) To take action to provide sanitary equipment,
cloths, gloves, mouth covers, boots,
insurance coverage to the employees involve
in collection, segregation, and disposal of
waste and subject them to medical
examination twice a year.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1551
(o) Implementing a strategy for the waste
management within the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya sabha.
(p) To formulate a waste disposal plan enable to
be implemented at least for one year and could
be carried on for the next 03 years in
accordance with the National waste
management strategy 2000 and the law
pertaining to it and the Environment Statue
No. 12 of 1990 of Northwestern Province,
implement it and get it approved annually by
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha based
on the time frame for the implementation.
(q) To inquire into the complaints related to the
matters from (a) to (p) and take action within
3 days if it were about public nuisance that
probably to cause and if it were about other
kinds within fourteen days.
L
ICENCE
23. (i) Karuwalagaswewa shall issue licence to people
who reuse, recycle, product bio-gas or other
products from wastes for the following activities.
(a) Carry out an activity, in accordance with the
by-laws adopted by the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya sabha, within the limits of
Karuwalagaswewa or any other Pradeshiya
Sabha limits.
(b) Shall hold a Environment Permit issued in
accordance with the Environment Statues No.
12 of 1990 of Northwestern Province.
(c) Hold a waste collecting centre established in
accordance to the standard of the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(d) Shall possess appropriate vehicle to transport
the collected waste without causing nuisance
to the public and
(e) When such an activity is carried out within
the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha
limits a charges determined by the
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha shall be
paid and shall agree to hand over all the
rejected or the wastes that are useful for sub
production to Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) In the even of the refusal of issuing licence by
the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha the
reason for the refusal shall be given within 30
days in writing at the request made by the
applicant.
(iii) The period for which the licence is issued, nature
of wastes or the area of collection of wastes and
other condition shall be mentioned in the licence.
(iv) The licence shall be canceled if the licensee fails
to comply with the condition contained in the
licence.
(v) If the licence is cancelled no person shall involve
in the activity of collecting wastes in accordance
with Section 23 (i). The Secretary shall take action
to inform the public through media or any other
ways about the cancellation of licence.
P
LACES FOR DUMPING WASTES
24. No person without possessing a licence shall enter
the place reserved for disposal of wasters. Wandering,
around the place throwing wastes to it, removing
anything from there are prohibited. No waste shall be
deposit in it without the permission of
Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
25. No person shall dump wastes generated from other
areas in the waste disposal area of Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha without permission.
26. A wall or other form of protection shall be erected
around the waste dumping area It shall be maintained
preventing air or water from entering into the adjoining
places.
O
THER
27. (i) The chairman or any person who is given
authorized by the Chairman shall have the
authority to enter the place anytime to inspect
whether the activities are carried out n accordance
with the terms and conditions.
(ii) Required information shall be provided to the
Chairman or the officer authorized by him, by the
owner, resident, manager of the premises.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Chairman or the
person who is given authority by him to
exercising their duties.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1552
PUNISHMENT
28. Violation of any rule of this by-law is an offence and
if a person is convicted by a competent court could
be punished under section 122 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of  1987.
INTERPRETA TION
29. In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires -
''Waste or solid waste' means the unusable for anything
and disgraced by anyone which include garbage,
wastes, dust, mud and other matters that generates
when sweeping a place
''Food wastes" means the food items that are not fir for
human consumption.
''Wastes causing nuisance" mean poisonous,
dangerous to human health and environment,
reactive, that could cause illness, and radioactive
substance.
''Collection" means gathering wastes by authorized
waste collectors or the wastes that are gathered,
segregated, processed or prepared for transportation
within the limits of Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha by waster collectors.
''Compost" means final waste decayed by
microorganism I it could act as fungus.
''Chairman'' means the Chairman of Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha.
''Secretary" means the Secretary of the Local authority
established for the limits of Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha and it includes the authority
vested in the officer who is appointed to implement
the duties and responsibility of Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha.
''Storsing'' means to store wastes in a compound of a
owner or the collection centre for which licence is
obtained.
Charges means any charges determined by the Council
time to time.
Home Garden Waste" means the parts removed from
trees or plants and other wastes that are disposed
things such as stones, sand etc.
''Wastes damaged by micro-organism means the wastes
that are decayed by micro organisms.
'Public Places' mean roads, grounds. public places, road
reservations, playgrounds, common buildings,
cemeteries, bus holts, Railway Stations, rivers,
cannels, watercourses, beaches or other places used
by the general public.
''Recyclable wastes", means that the wastes that cannot
be regarded as a wastes and able to reuse by
changing their nature or appearance.
''Reusable wastes" means the waste that could be put
into use by washing cleaning and removing
poisonous insects and other element.
''Transportation" means transporting wastes from the
place where they are collected by any means of
transportation to the places where they could be
organized or a possessed.
''Bins/Container; means a box, a container, a bin, a bag
or similar things with lids that are used to collect,
store or dispose wastes required by the by-laws.
'Authorized waste collector' means a person who have
obtained a licence from the Secretary to gather
wastes.
'Authorized officer" means a person appointed in
writing for the purpose of carrying out the duties
under the by-laws by the Chairman or the Secretary
under the circumstances.
''Disposal" means to dump matters that are not suitable
for reuse, recycle or process on a surface of a ground
''Alternative place" means the place that is determined
by the Council for the purpose from where the wastes
would be transferred from small vehicles to big
vehicles to make it easier to transport them to the
places where the activities of processing the wastes
for reuse or recycle or dispose is take place.
''person" means the institution incorporated or
unincorporated or association of individuals or
group or individuals.
''The waste collectors within the Karuwalagaswewa
Pradeshiya Sabha'' means the persons employed by
the council or entered into an agreement with the
council to carry out the duties of sweeping and
depositing the collected wastes into the bins or
containers or. collecting or undertaking such wastes.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1553
''Segregation" means separating various wastes.
'Processing" means the activity of changing wastes as
useable things
''Council" means the Karuwalagaswewa Pradeshiya
Sabha established under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
''Administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha" means the
area declared under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
''Sanitary land filling" means the final disposal of wastes
on a land in conformity with the accepted standards
in order to mitigate the social and sanitary impacts.
''The owner or resident" means a person who is the
owner of a property or a person who possess an
Attorney Power to possess the property, a person
appointed to run the estate management or a factory
or to run the administration of an estate.
''A person who involves in the activities of excavating,
constructing or demolishing; this includes all the
persons who are engaged by service provider for
the purpose.
''Construction Wastes" means the wastes such as earth,
mud, dust, wasted building materials generated
during the construction works.
''Hospital" means a place (however it is described) which
admits people or animals that suffer from illness or
weakness, caring them and it include nursing homes,
medical clinics, maternity homes, or veterinary office
as well.
''Dangerous Wastes" means all the wastes related to
medical tests, portion of human organs and the
remains of child birth.
''Office" have the same interpretation provided in
(Chapter129) of the Shops and Office Employees
Act, No. 19 of 1954
''Shops" means the place where things are kept for
wholesale or retail sale as well as the places where
food, drinks are sold and the places for hair dressing
and beautification activities.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10-474
–––––––––––––––
THUNUKKAI  PRADESHIYA  SABHA THUNUKKAI
Declaration of Names and Details of Roads
IN terms of Section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 as per the decision (administrative order) No. 02 dated
01.08.2016 of Thunukkai Pradeshiya Sabha in Mullaitivu District, by virtue of powers vested in Thunukkai Pradeshiya Sabha
as per Pradeshiya Sabha Act, roads under mentioned Schedule published as the roads belong to Thunukkai Pradeshiya
Sabha.
It is hereby noticed that in terms of Section 24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 if anyone is to be the owner
of the land of the roads of which are identified by Thunukkai Pradeshiya Sabha shall raise his or her objections to me with the
provable documents within one month from the date of this notice published in the Gazette or institute action in the
appropriate court within three months from the date of this notice published Gazette notice with one month prior notice to
Thunukkai Pradeshiya Sabha to establish his or her ownership.
K. T
HANABALASINGAM,
Secretary,
Thunukkai Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1554
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
ROAD DETAILS 0F  LOCAL GOVERNMENT OF  TUNUKKAI PRADESHIYASABHA
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
1 NMUTE0011st Unit Road Yogapuram east Mul /28B-269 Mankulam-Thiruvalluvar nagar 2.5 8 3.6
Thunukkai Road
2 NMUTE002Kuddippillaiyar Road Yogapuram east Mul /281st Unit Road Thiruvalluvar R.B Chanel 0.82 8 3
3 NMUTE003 Kuddippillaiyar Thiruvalluvar Yogapuram east Mul /28 Koddippillaiyar Road Thiruvalluvar 4th Chanel0.55 8 3
Village Link Road
4 NMUTE004Thiruvalluvar Village  Road Yogapuram east Mul /281st Unit Road Kuddippillaiyar Road -1.02 8 3
Thiruvalluvar Village Link Road
5 NMUTE005Paddupochchi village Road Yogapuram eastMul /28 1st Unit RoadPalinagar0.25 8 3
6 NMUTE006Paddupochchi Road 1 Yogapuram east Mul /28 1.2km 1st Unit Road 1.7km 1st Unit Road1.84 8 3
7 NMUTE007Paddupochchi Road 2 Yogapuram east Mul /28 Paddupochchi RoadForest0.81 8 3
8 NMUTE008Paddupochchi  Road 3 Yogapuram east Mul /28 Paddupochchi RoadHouse 0.35 8 3
9 NMUTE009Paddupochchi  Lane-1 Yogapuram east Mul /28Thiruvalluvar Village LanePalinagar 0.3 8 3
10 NMUTE010Paddupochchi  Road Yogapuram east Mul /28Thiruvalluvar Village LanePalinagar0.25 8 3
11 NMUTE011Namanamkulam LanePugalenthinagarMul /29 1st Unit Road Paddupochchi Road 0.8 8 3
12 NMUTE012Pugalenthinagar Internal Lane-1PugalenthinagarMul /29 1st Unit Road Paddupochchi Road 0.5 8 3
13 NMUTE013Pugalenthinagar Internal Lane-2PugalenthinagarMul /29Namanamkulam LanePugalenthinagar 1st Lane 0.85 8 3
14 NMUTE014Pugalenthinagar 1st LanePugalenthinagarMul /29 1st Unit Road Paddy Field0.65 8 3
15 NMUTE015Pugalenthinagar Cemetary RoadPugalenthinagarMul /29 1st Unit RoadCemetary0.22 8 3
16 NMUTE016Pugalenthinagar 2nd LanePugalenthinagarMul /29 1st Unit RoadNamanamkulam lane 0.45 8 3
17 NMUTE017Pugalenthinagar 3rd LanePugalenthinagarMul /29 1st Unit RoadR.B Channel 0.63 8 3
18 NMUTE018Pugalenthinagar Internal Lane-3PugalenthinagarMul /29Pugalenthinagar 3rd LaneBarathinagar-Pugalenthi 0.63 8 3
nagar Link Road
19 NMUTE019Pugalenthinagar 4th LanePugalenthinagarMul /29 1st Unit RoadBarathinagar-Pugalenthi nagar 0.69 8 3
Link Road
20 NMUTE020Barathinagar-PugalenthinagarPugalenthinagarMul /30 Hospital front Road1st Unit Road1.55 8 3
Link Road
21 NMUTE021Hospital front RoadBarathinagar-Mul /30 D 269 Mankula-R.B Channel 2.71 8 3
Thunukkai Rd.
22 NMUTE022Barathinagar-1st LaneBarathinagar-Mul /30 Hospital front RoadBarathinagar-Pugalenthinagar 0.64 8 3
Link Road
23 NMUTE023Salampan pillaiyar LaneBarathinagar-Mul /30 Hospital front RoadHospital front Road0.25 8 3
24 NMUTE024Barathinagar-2nd LaneBarathinagar-Mul /30 Hospital front RoadKunsukkulam lane 1.92 8 3
25 NMUTE025Barathinagar-3rd LaneBarathinagar-Mul /30 Hospital front Road R.B Cranel 0.4 8 3
26 NMUTE026Barathinagar-4th LaneBarathinagar-Mul /30 Hospital front RoadBarathinagar-2nd Lane 0.73 8 3

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1555
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
27 NMUTE027Barathinagar-5th LaneBarathinagar-Mul /30 Hospital front RoadBarathinagar-4th Lane 0.65 8 3
28 NMUTE028Hospital Back RoadBarathinagar-Mul /30 D-269 Mankulam- Hospital front Road 0.8 8 3
Thunukkai Road
29 NMUTE029Barathinagar Cemetary RoadBarathinagar-Mul /30 R.B ChananelCemetary 0.3 8 3
30 NMUTE030 Yogapuram1st Lane Yogapuram centerMul /21 Hospital Back RoadYogapuram-2nd Lane 0.62 8 3
31 NMUTE031 Yogapuram-2nd Lane Yogapuram centerMul /21 Yogapuram Center RoadYogapuram Center Road 0.65 7 3
32 NMUTE032Kunsukkulam 1st Lane Yogapuram centerMul /21 Yogapuram1st Lane Paddy Field0.65 7 3
33 NMUTE033Thirunagar -Kunsukkulam Lane Yogapuram centerMul /21 Yogapuram-2nd LaneThirunagar paddy field Lane 0.99 7 3
34 NMUTE034 Yogapuram Center Road Yogapuram centerMul /21 D-269 Mankulam-R.B Chananel 3.35 7 3
Thunukkai Road
35 NMUTE035Mallavi 1st Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Hospital Back Road House 0.2 7 3
36 NMUTE036Mallavi 2nd Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Hospital Back Road Yogapuram RDS Road 0.31 5 3
37 NMUTE037Mallavi 1st Cross Road Mallavi Mul /20 D-269 Mankulam- Yogapuram RDS Road 0.3 5 3
Thunukkai Road
38 NMUTE038Mallavi 2nd Cross Road Mallavi Mul /20 D-269 Mankulam- Yogapuram RDS Road 0.27 5 3.6
Thunukkai Road
39 NMUTE039Mallavi 3rd Cross Road Mallavi Mul /20 D-269 Mankulam- Yogapuram Center Road 0.8 5 3.6
Thunukkai Road
40 NMUTE040 Yogapuram RDS Road Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi 3rd Cross Road Yogapuram Center Road 0.47 5 3.6
41 NMUTE041Mallavi 3rd Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Yogapuram RDS Road Yogapuram Center Road 0.2 5 3
42 NMUTE042Mallavi 4th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi 3rd Cross Road Yogapuram Village Road 0.41 5 3.6
43 NMUTE043Mallavi 4th Cross Road Mallavi Mul /20 RDD 269 Mankulam- Yogapuram Center Road 0.93 5 3.6
Thunukkai Road
44 NMUTE044Mallavi 5th Cross Road Mallavi Mul /20 RDD 269 Mankulam- Yogapuram Center Road 0.95 5 3.6
Thunukkai Road
45 NMUTE045 Yogapuram Village RoadMallavi Mul /20 RDD 269 Mankulam- Valanagar RDS  Lane 1.96 5 3.6
Thunukkai Road
46 NMUTE046Thirunagar 4th Channel RoadThirunagarMul /22 Thirunagar 1st LaneR.B Channel 1.68 5 3.6
47 NMUTE047Thirunagar paddy field LaneThirunagarMul /22 Thirunagar Center road Paddy Field0.46 7 3.6
48 NMUTE048Thirunagar 1st LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center RoadThirunagar -Kunsukkulam Lane0.35 7 3
49 NMUTE049Thirunagar 2nd LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center RoadYogapuram Center Road 0.34 7 3
50 NMUTE050 Thirunagar 3rd LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center RoadYogapuram Center Road 0.45 7 3
51 NMUTE051Thirunagar 4th LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center RoadYogapuram Center Road 0.72 7 3
52 NMUTE052Thirunagar 5th LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center RoadPaniyarakkulam 1.44 7 3
53 NMUTE053Thirunagar 1st Link LaneThirunagarMul /22 Thirunagar 3rd LaneThirunagar 4th Lane0.26 7 3
54 NMUTE054Thirunagar 2nd Link LaneThirunagarMul /22 Thirunagar 4th LaneThirunagar 5th Lane0.24 7 3

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1556
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
55 NMUTE055Thirunagar 6th LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center Road Thirunagar 7th Lane 0.26 7 3
56 NMUTE056Thirunagar 7th LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center RoadThirunagar 5th Lane0.66 7 3
57 NMUTE057Thirunagar Cemetary RoadThirunagarMul /22 R.B ChananelCemetary 0.4 7 3
58 NMUTE058Thirunagar 3rd Link LaneThirunagarMul /22 Yogapuram Center Road R.B Chananel 0.18 7 3
59 NMUTE059  Mallavi 6th Lane Yogapuram west Mul /19 Valanagar Village Road Yogapuram Center Road0.91 7 3
60 NMUTE060 V alanagar Village Road Yogapuram west Mul /19 Yogapuram Village Road Yogapuram Village Road 1.72 7 3.6
61 NMUTE061 Valanagar RDS Link LaneYogapuram westMul /19 Mallavi 6th Lane Valanagar RDS0.47 7 3.6
62 NMUTE062Mallavi School Road Yogapuram west Mul /19 RDD 269 Mankulam- Yogapuram Village Road 1.1 7 3
Thunukkai Road
63 NMUTE063 Valanagar Village-RDS link lane Yogapuram west Mul /19 Valanagar Village-RDS Valanagar RDS  Lane 0.29 7 3.6
link lane
64 NMUTE064 Valanagar RDS  Lane Yogapuram west Mul /19 Yogapuram Center Road R.B Channel 1.42 7 3
65 NMUTE065Mallavi 5th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi 4th Cross Road Yogapuram Village Road 0.4 7 3.6
66 NMUTE066Mallavi Therankandal Road Mallavi Mul /20 RDD 269 Mankulam- Thunukkai Kokkavil RDD3.18 5 3.6
Thunukkai RoadRoad
67 NMUTE067Mallavi Mankainagar 1st Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest 1.2 5 3.6
68 NMUTE068Mallavi Mankainagar 1st Corss Mallavi Mul /20Mallavi Mankainagar 1stForest 0.9 5 3
Lane Lane
69 NMUTE069Mallavi Mankainagar 1st Internal MallaviMul /20 Mallavi MankainagarForest 0.5 5 3
Lane1st Coress Lane
70 NMUTE070Mallavi Mankainagar 2nd Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest0.25 5 3
71 NMUTE071Mallavi Mankainagar 3rd Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest0.25 5 3
72 NMUTE072Mallavi Mankainagar 4th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest0.25 5 3
73 NMUTE073Mallavi Mankainagar 5th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest0.25 5 3
74 NMUTE074Mallavi Mankainagar 6th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest0.25 5 3
75 NMUTE075 Mankainagar-Therankandal RoadMallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal Road Thunukkai Kokkavil RDD 0.74 5 3
Road
76 NMUTE076Mallavi Mankainagar 7th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadMankainagar-Therankandal 0.28 5 3
Road
77 NMUTE077Mallavi Mankainagar 8th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest 0.8 5 3
78 NMUTE078Mallavi Mankainagar 9th Lane Mallavi Mul /20 Mallavi Therankandal RoadForest 0.9 5 3
79 NMUTE079Mallavi Mankainagar 2nd Corss Mallavi Mul /20Mallavi Mankainagar Paddy Field 0.3 5 3
Lane8th Lane
80 NMUTE080Mallavi Mankainagar 3rd Cross Mallavi Mul /20Mallavi Mankainagar Paddy Field 0.3 5 3
Lane8th Lane

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1557
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
81 NMUTE081Mallavi Mankainagar 4th Cross MallaviMul /20 Mallavi Mankainagar Paddy Field 0.3 5 3
Lane8th Lane
82 NMUTE082Mallavi Mankainagar 2nd Internal Mallavi Mul /20Mallavi Mankainagar Pady Field 0.1 5 3
Lane1st Lane
83 NMUTE083Mallavi Mankainagar 3rd Internal MallaviMul /20 Mallavi MankainagarForest 0.2 6 3.6
Lane1st Lane
84 NMUTE084Mallavi Murukan Kovil Lane Mallavi Mul /20 RDD 269 Mankulam-Kovil 0.3 6 3.6
Thunukkai Road
85 NMUTE085Aninchiyankulam-6th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 RDD 269 Mankulam- Mallavi  Sivan Kovil Lane 0.1 6 3.6
Thunukkai Road
86 NMUTE086Aninchiyankulam-1st RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 RDD 269 Mankulam- Aninchiyankulam 1st Internal0.52 6 3.6
Thunukkai RoadRoad
87 NMUTE087Mallavi  Sivan Kovil LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-1st RoadKovil 0.21 6 3
88 NMUTE088Aninchiyankulam-7th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-1st Road  Aninchiyankulam 1st Internal 0.1 6 3
Road
89 NMUTE089 Aninchiyankulam 1st Internal RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 TankAninchiyankulam-2nd Road0.42 6 3
90 NMUTE090Aninchiyankulam-8th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam 1stTank 0.12 6 3
Internal Road
91 NMUTE091Aninchiyankulam-9th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam 1st Tank 0.2 6 3
Internal Road
92 NMUTE092Aninchiyankulam-10th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam 1stTank 0.17 6 3
Internal Road
93 NMUTE093Aninchiyankulam-12th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-2nd Road Aninchiyankulam-1st Road0.3 6 3.6
94 NMUTE094Aninchiyankulam-11th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam 1st Aninchiyankulam-12th Lane0.35 6 3.6
Internal Road
95 NMUTE095Aninchiyankulam-2nd RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 RDD 269 Mankulam-Aninchiyankulam-7th Road1.35 6 3
Thunukkai Road
96 NMUTE096Aninchiyankulam-3rd RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 RDD 269 Mankulam-Aninchiyankulam-2nd Road0.41 6 3
Thunukkai Road
97 NMUTE097Aninchiyankulam-13th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-2nd Road Tank 0.8 6 3
98 NMUTE098Aninchiyankulam 2nd InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-13th Aninchiyankulam-7th Road 0.7 6 3
RoadLane
99 NMUTE099Aninchiyankulam 3rd InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-13th Aninchiyankulam-9th Road 0.75 6 3.6
RoadLane

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1558
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
100 NMUTE100Aninchiyankulam 4th InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-4th Road Aninchiyankulam-9th Road 0.56 6 3.6
Road
101 NMUTE101Aninchiyankulam-4th RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Forest1.15 6 3.6
Thunukkai Road
102 NMUTE102Aninchiyankulam-5th RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 1.4 6 3.6
Thunukkai Road
103 NMUTE103Aninchiyankulam-6th RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam- Aninchiyankulam 3rd Internal1.05 6 3.6
Thunukkai RoadRoad
104 NMUTE104Aninchiyankulam-7th RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-  Aninchiyankulam 3rd Internal 1.1 6 3.6
Thunukkai RoadRoad
105 NMUTE105Aninchiyankulam-8th RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam- Aninchiyankulam 7th Internal 0.5 6 3
Thunukkai RoadRoad
106 NMUTE106Aninchiyankulam-9th RoadAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 1.5 6 3
Thunukkai Road
107 NMUTE107Aninchiyankulam 5th InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-7th Aninchiyankulam-9th Internal0.14 6 3
RoadInternal RoadRoad
108 NMUTE108Aninchiyankulam 6th InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-5th Aninchiyankulam-7th Internal 0.3 6 3
RoadInternal RoadRoad
109 NMUTE109Aninchiyankulam 7th InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-5th Aninchiyankulam-9th Internal0.55 6 3
RoadInternal RoadRoad
110 NMUTE110Aninchiyankulam 8th InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-5th Aninchiyankulam-7th Internal0.45 6 3
RoadInternal RoadRoad
111 NMUTE111Aninchiyankulam 9th InternalAninchiyankulamMul /31 Aninchiyankulam-8th Aninchiyankulam-9th Internal0.45 6 3.6
RoadInternal RoadRoad
112 NMUTE112Aninchiyankulam-14th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-House 0.226 3.6
Thunukkai Road
113 NMUTE113Aninchiyankulam-1st LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Aninchiyankulam-5th Internal0.18 6 3.6
Thunukkai RoadRoad
114 NMUTE114 Aninchiyankulam-2nd Lane AninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Tank 0.18 6 3.6
Thunukkai Road
115 NMUTE115Aninchiyankulam-3rd LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Aninchiyankulam-5th Internal0.18 6 3.6
Thunukkai RoadRoad
116 NMUTE116Aninchiyankulam-4th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Tank 0.18 4 3
Thunukkai Road
117 NMUTE117Aninchiyankulam-5th LaneAninchiyankulamMul /31 B 269 Mankulam-Hospital front Road0.64 4 3
Thunukkai Road

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1559
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
118 NMUTE118Kothampiyakulam LaneThunukkai Mul /16 B 269 Mankulam- R.B. Chananel 0.8 4 3
Thunukkai Road
119 NMUTE119Thunukkai  oid settlement Lane ThunukkaiMul /16 R.B Chananel R.B. Chananel0.89 4 3
120 NMUTE120Thunukkai  oid settlement Link Thunukkai Mul /16 B 269 Mankulam- Thunukkai  oid settlement0.25 4 3
RoadThunukkai RoadLane
121 NMUTE121Thunukkai  Dumping Ground Thunukkai Mul /16 B 269 Mankulam- Thunukkai  Dumping Ground 0.5 4 3
RoadThunukkai Road
122 NMUTE122Thunukkai -1st Lane Thunukkai Mul /16 B 269 Mankulam- Thunukkai  -2nd Lane0.19 4 3
Thunukkai Road
123 NMUTE123Thunukkai -2nd  Lane Thunukkai Mul /16 B 269 Mankulam- Paddy Field0.18 4 3
Thunukkai Road
124 NMUTE124Thunukkai -3rd Lane Thunukkai Mul /16 B 269 Mankulam- Thunukkai  School Lane0.13 4 3.6
Thunukkai Road
125 NMUTE125 Thunukkai -4th LaneThunukkai Mul /16 Thunukkai  School Lane R.B. Chananel0.08 4 3.6
126 NMUTE126Thunukkai  School Lane Thunukkai Mul /16 B 269 Mankulam- R.B. Chananel0.54 4 3
Thunukkai Road
127 NMUTE127Thunukkai  Market Road Thunukkai Mul /16 Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.5 4 3
RDD Road
128 NMUTE128Thunukkai  Kulasingam Lane Thunukkai Mul /16 Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.5 4 3
RDD Road
129 NMUTE129Thunukkai Setelment-1st Lane Thunukkai Mul /16Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.2 4 3
RDD Road
130 NMUTE130Thunukkai Setelment-2nd Lane Thunukkai Mul /16Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.2 4 3
RDD Road
131 NMUTE131Thunukkai Setelment-3rd Lane Thunukkai Mul /16Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.2 4 3
RDD Road
132 NMUTE132Thunukkai Setelment-4th Lane Thunukkai Mul /16Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.2 4 3
RDD Road
133 NMUTE133Thunukkai Setelment-5th Lane Thunukkai Mul /16Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.2 4 3
RDD Road
134 NMUTE134Thunukkai Setelment-6th Lane Thunukkai Mul /16Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.2 4 3.6
RDD Road
135 NMUTE135Thunukkai Setelment-7th Lane Thunukkai Mul /16Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.2 4 3.6
RDD Road

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1560
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
136 NMUTE136Kalvilan 1st LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam- Kalvilan 4th Link Lane1.01 4 3.6
Thunukkai Road
137 NMUTE137Kalvilan 2nd LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam- Kalvilan 4th  Lane0.93 4 3
Thunukkai Road
138 NMUTE138Kalvilan 3rd LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam- Kalvilan 3rd  Lane0.51 4 3
Thunukkai Road
139 NMUTE139 Kalvilan 4th LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam- Kalvilan 3rd  Lane0.32 4 3
Thunukkai Road
140 NMUTE140Kalvilan 1st Link LaneKalvilanMul /17 Kalvilan 2nd LaneKalvilan 3rd Lane0.18 4 3
141 NMUTE141Kalvilan 2nd Link LaneKalvilanMul /17 Kalvilan 1st LaneKalvilan 2nd Lane0.21 4 3
142 NMUTE142Kalvilan 3rd Link LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Kalvilan 1st Lane0.99 4 3
Thunukkai Road
143 NMUTE143Kalvilan 4th Link LaneKalvilanMul /17 Kalvilan 1st Lane Kalvilan School front Lane 0.4 4 3.6
144 NMUTE144Kalvilan Cemetary RoadKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam- Paliyaru 1.9 4 3
Thunukkai Road
145 NMUTE145Kalvilan School Front LaneKalvilanMul /17 Kalvilan 3rd Link Lane House 0.4 4 3
146 NMUTE146Kalvilan Sivapuram 1st LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Kalvilan Kulam 0.2 4 3
Thunukkai Road
147 NMUTE147 Kalvilan Sivapuram 2nd Lane KalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 0.5 4 3
Thunukkai Road
148 NMUTE148Kalvilan Sivapuram 3rd Lane KalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 0.2 4 3.6
Thunukkai Road
149 NMUTE149Kalvilan Sivapuram 4th LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 0.2 4 3
Thunukkai Road
150 NMUTE150Kalvilan Kovil LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-B 269 Mankulam-Thunukkai0.47 4 3
Thunukkai RoadRoad
151 NMUTE151Kalvilan 1st Puthiya LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 0.5 4 3
Thunukkai Road
152 NMUTE152Kalvilan 2nd Puthiya LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 0.5 4 3
Thunukkai Road
153 NMUTE153Kalvilan 3rd Puthiya LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Forest0.35 4 3
Thunukkai Road
154 NMUTE154Kalvilan 4thPuthiya LaneKalvilanMul /17 B 269 Mankulam-Forest 0.3 3 3
Thunukkai Road

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1561
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
155 NMUTE155Kalvilan 5th Link LaneKalvilanMul /17 Kalvilan 1st Puthiya Lane Kalvilan 2st Puthiya Lane 0.3 3 3
156 NMUTE156 Ujilankulam Puthukkulam laneUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai Kanthapuram Ulilankulam Manatkulam Road 0.26 3 3
RDD Road
157 NMUTE157Ujilankulam 1st laneUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai Kanthapuram Ulilankulam Manatkulam Road 0.26 3 3
RDD Road
158 NMUTE158Ulilankulam Manatkulam RoadUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 2 3 3
RDD Road
159 NMUTE159Ujilankulam Kottankulam 1st LaneUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramKulam 0.1 3 3
RDD Road
160 NMUTE160Ujilankulam Kottankulam 2nd LaneUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramKulam0.18 3 3
RDD Road
161 NMUTE161Ujilankulam Kottankulam 3rd LaneUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramKulam0.21 3 3
RDD Road
162 NMUTE162Ujilankulam Iyanar LaneUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramKovil 0.47 3 3.6
RDD Road
163 NMUTE163Ujilankulam Poosary LaneUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramForest0.25 3 3
RDD Road
164 NMUTE164Ujilankulam Modal Village RoadUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramHouseing Scheme0.84 3 3
RDD Road
165 NMUTE165Ujilankulam SettlementUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramForest 0.3 3 3.6
Village RoadRDD Road
166 NMUTE166Ujilankulam Paddy Field RoadUjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai KanthapuramThunukkai Kanthapuram1.32 3 3
 RDD Road RDD Road
167 NMUTE167Ujilankulam  Village Road UjilankulamMul /18 Thunukkai Kanthapuram Thunukkai Kanthapuram 0.4 3 3
 RDD Road RDD Road
168 NMUTE168Thenniyankulam 1st LaneThenniyankulam Mul /32 ThenniyankulamForest0.16 3 3
Nagapaduvan RDD Road
169 NMUTE169Thenniyankulam 2nd  LaneThenniyankulam Mul /32 Thenniyankulam LB Channel 0.5 3 3
Nagapaduvan RDD Road
170 NMUTE170Thenniyankulam Common HollThenniyankulam Mul /32 LB ChannelPaddy Field0.48 3 3
Road
171 NMUTE171Thenniyankulam 3rd  LaneThenniyankulam Mul /32 LB ChannelPaddy Field 0.1 3 3
172 NMUTE172Thenniyankulam cemetary RoadThenniyankulam Mul /32 LB ChannelCemetary 0.6 3 3
173 NMUTE173Thenniyankulam 4th  LaneThenniyankulam Mul /32 Thenniyankulam LB Channel 0.83 1 3
Nagapaduvan RDD Road

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1562
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
174 NMUTE174Thenniyankulam 5th  LaneThenniyankulam Mul /32 ThenniyankulamThenniyankulam 4th  Lane 0.57 1 3
Nagapaduvan RDD Road
175 NMUTE175Thenniyankulam 6th LaneThenniyankulam Mul /32 Thunukkai Kanthapuram Tank 0.45 1 3
RDD Road
176 NMUTE176Thenniyankulam 7th LaneThenniyankulam Mul /32 Thunukkai Kanthapuram Tank 0.32 1 3
RDD Road
177 NMUTE177 Koddaikadiyakulam circle Road Koddaikadiyakulam Mul /35 Thunukkai Kanthapuram Thunukkai Kanthapuram1.55 1 3
 RDD Road RDD Road
178 NMUTE178Koddaikadiyakulam 1st Link RoadKoddaikadiyakulam Mul /35Koddaikadiyakulam circleKoddaikadiyakulam circle Road 0.6 1 3.6
Road
179 NMUTE179Koddaikadiyakulam 2nd Link RoadKoddaikadiyakulam Mul /35Koddaikadiyakulam circleKoddaikadiyakulam circle Road 0.4 1 3
Road
180 NMUTE180Koddaikadiyakulam Koddaikadiyakulam Mul /35Thunukkai Kanthapuram Thenniyankulam RB channel 3.52 1 3
Thenniyankulam Road RDD RoadRoad
181 NMUTE181Koddaikadiyakulam Co-op RoadKoddaikadiyakulam Mul /35 KoddaikadiyakulamKoddaikadiyakulam Village 0.71 1 3.6
Thenniyankulam RoadRoad
182 NMUTE182Koddaikadiyakulam Village  RoadKoddaikadiyakulam Mul /36 Thenniyankulam 8thKoddaikadiyakulam 0.81 1 3
channel RoadThenniyankulam Road
183 NMUTE183Ampalapperumal Anaivilunthan Ampalapperumal- Mul /35 Thunukkai Kanthapuram Murukandy Vannery RDD 4.3 1 3
RoadkulamRDD RoadRoad
184 NMUTE184Ampalapperumal 1st RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25Ampalappe-Anaivilun RoadForest 0.2 1 3
kulam
185 NMUTE185Ampalapperumal 2nd RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25Ampalapperumal 1st RoadForest 0.2 1 3
kulam
186 NMUTE186Ampalapperumal 1st Link RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25Ampalapperumal 1st Road Ampalappe-Anaivilun Rd 0.6 1 3
kulam
187 NMUTE187Ampalapperumal 3rd RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal-Forest 0.2 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan  Road
188 NMUTE188 Ampalapperumal 4th RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal-Forest 0.2 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan  Road
189 NMUTE189 Ampalapperumal 5th RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal-Forest 0.2 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan  Road
190 NMUTE190 Ampalapperumal 6th RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal-Forest 0.2 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan  Road

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1563
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
191 NMUTE191 Ampalapperumal 7th RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25Ampalapperumal-Forest0.65 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan  Road
192 NMUTE192 Ampalapperumal 8th RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal-Forest 0.2 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan  Road
193 NMUTE193Ampalapperumal 2nd Link RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal- Ampalapperumal 7th Road0.33 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan  Road
194 NMUTE194Ampalapperumal 1st cross RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal 7th RoadForest 0.3 1 3
kulam
195 NMUTE195Ampalapperumal 2nd  cross RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal 7th Road Forest0.45 1 3
kulam
196 NMUTE196Ampalapperumal 3rd Link RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal- Ampalapperumal 7th Road0.22 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan Road
197 NMUTE197 Ampalapperumal 9th RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal-Forest 0.2 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan Road
198 NMUTE198Ampalapperumal 10th RoadAmpalapperumal Mul /25 Ampalapperumal-Forest 0.2 1 3
kulamAnaivilunthan Road
199 NMUTE199Arokkiyapuram 1st Lane Amathipuram Mul /24 Murukandy Vannery Pady Field0.15 1 3
RDD Road
200 NMUTE200Arokkiyapuram 2nd Lane AmathipuramMul /24 Murukandy Vannery Forest0.65 1 3
RDD Road
201 NMUTE201Arokkiyapuram 3rd Lane AmathipuramMul /25 Murukandy Vannery Forest0.62 1 3
RDD Road
202 NMUTE202Arokkiyapuram RB Channel Road Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapuram 3rd LaneKulam0.64 1 3.6
203 NMUTE203Arokkiyapuram 1st Link Road Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapuram 3rd Lane Arokkiyapuram 2nd Lane0.15 1 3
204 NMUTE204Arokkiyapuram 2nd Link Road Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapuram 3rd Lane Paddy Field0.15 1 3
205 NMUTE205Arokkiyapuram 1st Cross Lane Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapuram 3rd Lane Paddy Field 0.2 1 3
206 NMUTE206Arokkiyapuram 2nd Cross  Lane Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapuram 3rd Lane Pady Field 0.2 1 3
207 NMUTE207Arokkiyapuram 3rd Cross  Lane Amathipuram Mul /25 Arokkiyapuram 3rd Lane Paddy Field 0.2 1 3
208 NMUTE208Arokkiyapuram Palamkulam Road Amathipuram Mul /24 Murukandy VanneryThunukkai Kanthapuram1.05 1 3
RDD Road RDD Road
209 NMUTE209Arokkiyapuram RB Chanel Road Amathipuram Mul /24Arokkiyapura-PalamkuKulam0.25 1 3
Road
210 NMUTE210Arokkiyapuram 4th Cross Lane Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapura-PalamkuHouseing Scheme 0.3 1 3
Road

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1564
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
211 NMUTE211 Arokkiyapuram 5th Cross  Lane Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapura-PalamkuHouseing Scheme 0.2 1 3
Road
212 NMUTE212 Arokkiyapuram 6th Cross  Lane Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapuram-PalamkuHouseing Scheme0.25 1 3
Road
213 NMUTE213Arokkiyapuram Band Road Amathipuram Mul /24 Arokkiyapura-PalamkuBand 0.1 1 3
Road
214 NMUTE214 Amathipuram School Road Amathipuram Mul /24Murukandy VannerySchool0.43 1 3
RDD Road
215 NMUTE215Amathipuram Link Road Amathipuram Mul /24 Amathipuram School Road Amathipuram Alady Road0.21 1 3
216 NMUTE216Amathipuram Alady Road Amathipuram Mul /24 Murukandy VanneryMurukandy Vannery RDD1.04 1 3
RDD RoadRoad
217 NMUTE217Alankulam Vedaiyadaippu Road Alankulam Mul /26 Thunukkai Kokkavil Thunukkai Kanthapuram 1.9 4 3.6
RDD Road RDD Road
218 NMUTE218 Alankulam Village Road AlankulamMul /26 Alankulam Vedaiyadaippu Thunukkai Kanthapuram0.99 4 3
RoadRDD Road
219 NMUTE219Alankulam 1st Lane Alankulam Mul /26 Alankulam Vedaiyadaippu House 0.1 4 3
Road
220 NMUTE220Alankulam 2nd Lane Alankulam Mul /26 Alankulam Vedaiyadaippu House 0.1 4 3
Road
221 NMUTE221Alankulam 3rd Lane Alankulam Mul /26 Alankulam VedaiyadaippuAlankulam Village Road 0.27 4 3
Road
222 NMUTE222Alankulam 1st Road AlankulamMul /26 Thunukkai -Kokkavil RDD Channel 1.4 4 3
Road
223 NMUTE223Alankulam 2nd Road Alankulam Mul /26 Thunukkai -Kokkavil RDD Alankulam 1st Road0.22 4 3
Road
224 NMUTE224Alankulam 3rd Road Alankulam Mul /26 Thunuk-Kokkavil RDD RdChanel 1.2 4 3
225 NMUTE225Alankulam 4th Road Alankulam Mul /27Thunuk-Kokkavil RDD RdAlankulam 3rd Road0.22 4 3
226 NMUTE226Alankulam 4th Lane Alankulam Mul /26 Thunuk-Kokkavil RDD Rd Forest 0.2 4 3
227 NMUTE227Alankulam Cemetary Lane Alankulam Mul /26 Thunuk-Kokkavil RDD RdForest 0.5 4 3
228 NMUTE228Alankulam 5th Lane Alankulam Mul /26 Thunuk-Kokkavil RDD Rd Forest 0.3 4 3
229 NMUTE229Therankandal Helth Center LaneTherankandalMul /26 Thunuk-Kokkavil RDD Rd House0.35 5 3
230 NMUTE230Therankandal 1st LaneTherankandalMul /27 Mallavi Therankandal Road Mankainagar-Therankan Road 0.39 5 3
231 NMUTE231Therankandal 2nd LaneTherankandalMul /27 Mallavi Therankandal Road Faddy Field0.45 5 3
232 NMUTE232Therankandal 1st internal LaneTherankandalMul /27 Therankandal 3rd LaneForest 0.4 5 3

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1565
No RoadName of Road GN GNStart EndLength W ord Width
No. Division Division in No. in
No. Metre Metre
233 NMUTE233Therankandal 2nd internal LaneTherankandalMul /27 Therankandal 3rd LaneForest 0.3 5 3
234 NMUTE234Iyankankulam Village Road IyankankulamMul /34 Kokkavil RDD Road LB Channel Road 1.26 2 3.6
235 NMUTE235Iyankankulam Internal RoadIyankankulam Mul /34Iyankankulam Village Road Iyankankulam Village Road 1.67 2 3
236 NMUTE236Iyankankulam 1st RoadIyankankulam Mul /34Iyankankulam Village RoadForest 0.2 2 3
237 NMUTE237Iyankankulam 2nd  RoadIyankankulam Mul /34Iyankankulam Village RoadForest 0.4 2 3
238 NMUTE238Iyankankulam palaiyamurukandyIyankankulam Mul /34 Kokkavil RDD RoadForest 3.7 2 3
Road
239 NMUTE239Ampalaperumal palaiyamurukandyPalaiyamurukandy Mul /34Thunukkai KanthapuramKulam 5.8 2 3
RoadRDD road
240 NMUTE240Palaiyamurukandy Village Road Palaiyamurukandy Mul /33 Iyankanku-palaiyamuruIyankankulam-palaiyamuru0.98 2 3
Road Road
241 NMUTE241Puththuvedduvan Post office RoadPuththuvedduvan Mul /23Thunukkai Kokkavil RDDForest 0.6 2 3
Road
242 NMUTE242Puththuvedduvan Village  Road Puththuvedduvan Mul /23 Kokkavil RDD RoadCemetary1.95 2 3.6
243 NMUTE243 Puththuvedduvan 1st RoadPuththuvedduvan Mul /23Puththuvedduvan VillageForest 0.2 2 3
Road
244 NMUTE244Puththuvedduvan 1st Link Road Puththuvedduvan Mul /23 Puththuvedduvan VillageForest 0.4 2 3
Road
245 NMUTE245Puththuvedduvan 2nd RoadPuththuvedduvan Mul /23 Puththuvedduvan Post Forest 0.5 2 3
office Road
246 NMUTE246Puththuvedduvan Village internalPuththuvedduvan Mul /23 Puththuvedduvan PostForest 1.5 2 3
Roadoffice Road
247 NMUTE247 Puththuvedduvan Old VillagePuththuvedduvan Mul /23Puththuvedduvan VillageKokkavil RDD Road0.94 2 3
Road Road
248 NMUTE248Puththuvedduvan 2nd Link  RoadPuththuvedduvan Mul /23Puththuvedduvan Village Puththuvedduvan Village intenal 0.4 2 3
Road Road
10-469

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1566
YATINUWARA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Waste Tax according to the By-laws related to the Solid Waste Management
I have been decided to impose the said Waste Tax mentioned in the Schedule below, according to the By-laws published in the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Gazette dated 12.08.2016 and under the provisions of the Local Authorities (Standard
By-laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952.
W. A. L. THUSARI JAYARA TNA,
Secretary,
Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
14th day of September, 2016.
LEVY  OF  CHARGES  PER  MONTH
Serial Category Chapter 50kg 30kg 20kg 10kg 10kg General
No. relating 40kg 30kg 20kg
the By-laws
01 Carcass of Domestic Animals 8(ii) 1,000 0 800 0 500 0 250 0 200 0
02 Shops and Offices 11(vi) 1,000 0 800 0 500 0 250 0 200 0
03 Hotels 12(v) 5,000 0 2,500 0 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0
04 Vegetable/Fruit Stalls 13(iii) 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0 300 0 200 0
05 Beef, fish/chicken/egg stalls 14(iii) 1,000 0 800 0 500 0 250 0 200 0
06 Pavement Trade Temporary Trade 15(vi) 100 0
07 Factories 16(ii) 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0
08 Mining/Cnstructions/Demolishments 17(ii) 2,500 0
(derbies) per Tractor load
09 Super Markets 20(iv) 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0
10 Tea/Retail shops 20(iv) 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 100 0
11 Hospitals 19(iii) 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 100 0
10–482
––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA   IBBAGAMUWA
Imposing License Fee for the Year - 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Section 147 and Section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with
Section 9.3 of the said Act, I hereby notify for the public information that I have decided to impose license fees for the year
2017 in respect of the area of auhtority of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa as follows under resolution the No. 4231-3 moved
at the committee of implementing decisions and policies held on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
By virtue of powers vested in me under Section 147 and 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with
Section 9.3 of the said Act, I hereby decide to impose a license fee in respect of the issue of a license for the year 2017
Miscellaneous Notices

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1567
authorizing a certain place or a premises to be utilized in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa for any purpose referred
to in the Column I as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II of the same Schedule, for the year 2017 under the
said Act, or By-law, made under the said Act ; and
In an instance where such place referred to in the Schedule is a hotel, a restaurant or a lodge registered with or
approved and accepted by the Tourist Board in Sri Lanka under Tourist Board Act, No. 14 of 1968, I hereby determine to
impose and levy a license fee of one percent (1%) of receiving in the year 2016 from the said hotel, restaurant or lodge for the
year 2017.
H. G. S
ATHY AKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th August, 2016.
SCHEDULE
Not Exceeding Exceeding Exceeding
Nature of the license Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but less Rs. 1,500
 than Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Hazardous businesses :
01. Running a place for selling cigars or beedi 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Running a place for curing leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Running a place for manufacturing mushrooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Running a place for manufacturing papadam 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
05. Running a place for manufacturing bites 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Running a place for manufacturing and selling wadei 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Running a place for manufacturing and selling sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Running a place for manufacturing and selling noodles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Running a place for manufacturing and selling of vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a place for packeting or selling salt 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a place for selling indigenous medicine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a shop for selling chilled pork 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a shop for selling chilled chicken 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Running a shop for selling chilled fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Running a place for selling eggs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Manuacturing or selling paddy seeds 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a place for buying indigenous products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running sales outlet for selling animal food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Running a place for storing or selling coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Dangerous Businesses  :
01. Running a place for repairing electric equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Running a place for framing pictures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Running a place for manufacturing bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Running a place for selling agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Running a place for selling gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1568
06. Running a place for cleaving coconut timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Running a place for manufacturing coir products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Running a place for recharging batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Running a place for tin workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a manufacturing, aluminium products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a place for milling paddy for hire 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a place for repairing tires and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a place for packeting lime powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Running a place for manufacturing soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Running a place for manufacturing or selling of concrete furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Running a place for sawing garments for hire 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a carpenter shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running a place for repairing watches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Running a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Running a press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Running a beauty saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Running a place for cutting coconut husks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Packeting and selling cashew nuts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Selling bottles of drinking water 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Sharpening saws 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Dangerous and Hazardous Businesses  :
01. Running a place for embalming dead bodies 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Running a copra shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Running a place for drying or selling tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Running a coconut shell coal pit 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Running a soakage pit 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Running a lime kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Running a mattel mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Running a mattel quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Running a place for nickel plating 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a place for repairing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a welding work shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a grinding mill for spices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a mill for milling coconut for hire 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Running a paddy mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Running a poultry farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Running a pig farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a goat farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running a cattle farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Running a center for collecting milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Running a place for selling dried fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Running a plac for rearing ornamental fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Running a place for manufacturing and selling ice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Running a vegetable sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Running a fruit sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Running a place for repairing bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Running a place for repairing motor bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Not Exceeding Exceeding Exceeding
Nature of the license Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but less Rs. 1,500
 than Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1569
27. Running a place for repairing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Running a place for repairing three wheelers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Running a place for selling snacks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Running a place for selling western medicine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Manufacturing and selling clay products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Running a retail shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Dangerous and Hazardous businesses :
Businesses for which licenses should be obtained under standard by-laws
01. Lodges 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Hotels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Eateries, cafeteries, tea/coffee 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Bakeries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Dairy farms and selling milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Selling fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Selling meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Ice factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Slaughter houses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Cood drinks factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Salons and barber shops for hair doing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Private markets and other authorized places 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Itinerant selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10–646/3
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA   IBBAGAMUWA
Imposing Industrial Tax for the Year - 2017
BY virtue of powers vested under the provisions of Section 134(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with
Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, H. G . Sathyakanthi, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya sabha Ibbagamuwa who execute powers and
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa do hereby notify for the public information that I have decided to
impose Industrial Tax for the year 2017 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa as follows under
the resolution No. 4231-5 the Committee of implementing decisions and policies held on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa.
I have decided that an Industrial Tax should be imposed and levied for the year 2017 on each industry carried out
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa referred to in Column I in following Schedule based on their
annual value as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II in terms of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa under Sub-section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
H. G. S
ATHY AKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th August, 2016.
Not Exceeding Exceeding Exceeding
Nature of the license Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but less Rs. 1,500
 than Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1570
Column I Column II
Annual value of the premise
In case not more In case more than In case more
Industrial than Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but less than
 than Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Running a place for manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Running a place for manufacturing gold jewellery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Running a place for manufacturing toys 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Running a place for manufacturing glassware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Running a place for manufacturing rubberized mattresses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Running a place for manufacturing vehicles for selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Running a place for manufacturing clay items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Running a place for buying and cutting gems 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Running a place for manufacturing curd pots 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Manufacturing coir 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10–646/5
––––––––––––––––
IBBAGAMUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing  Acreage Tax for the Year 2017
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the
following resolution No. 4231-2 moved at the Committee of
Implementing decisions and policies held on 12th August,
2017 at the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa has been decided
by me.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby notified that an acreage tax of Rs. 10 for every
land of more than 01 Hectare and less than 05 Hectares and
Rs. 50 per one hectare of every land exceeding 05 Hectares
within the area which has been published as a special area,
should be imposing and levled for the year 2017 in terms of
provisions more fully described in Sub-section (3) of Section
134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and Gazette
Notification of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
No. 1687 dated 31.11.2010.
H. G . S
ATHY AKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the Office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.
10–646/2
IBBAGAMUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Assessment Tax for the Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested under the provisions of Section
134(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read
with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, H. G. Sathyakanthi, the
Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa who execute
powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa do hereby notify for the public information that
I have decided to impose assessment tax for the year 2017 in
respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa as follows under the resolution No. 4231-1 moved
at the Committee of Implementing decisions and policies held
on 12.08.2016.
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa under Section Sub-section (1) of Section 146 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1897, I do hereby determine
that the assessment/vertification of the year 2017 in respect
of all houses, buildings, lands and tenements situated within
the areas of Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa
should be adopted for the year 2017 and by virtue of powers
vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 134 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section
9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that an annual
assessment tax of 2.5% based on the aforesaid annual value
should be imposed for the year 2017 ; and

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1571
Further, I determine that the annual assessment tax for the
year 2017 specified in the following Schedule should be paid
before the 
date indicated against each quarter in the said Schedule
to the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa and if the annual assessment
tax is paid in full before 31st of January of 2017 a ten percent
(10%) discount and in case the annual assessment tax for a quarter
is paid before the date indicated against each quarter set out in the
third Column a five percent (5%) discount will be paid.
H. G. S
ATHYAKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the Office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th August, 20156.
AFORESAID SCHEDULE
Quarter Due date of Final date entitled for
payment a discount of 5%
First Quarter From 01st January to Before 31st January
  31st January
Second Quarter From 01st April to 30th Before 30th April
  April
Third Quarter From 01st July to 31st Before 31st July
  July
Fourth Quarter From 01st October to Before 31st
  31st October   December
10–646/1
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA   IBBAGAMUWA
Imposing Tax in Respect of Undeveloped Lands
for the Year - 2017
I hereby notify for the public information that levying taxes is
appropriate in terms of the following resolution No. 4231-12
moved at the Committee of implementing decisions and policies
held on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under
Sub-section (1) of Secition 153 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.
15, Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa proposes that in case a
land suitable for construction of buildings, or permanent or
regular cultivation, situated within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
(a) If any building has not been erected in that land ; or
(b) If such land has not been subject to regular or constant
cultivation ; or
(c) If the land area used for the construction of buildings in
that land is less than the rate of 1-4 .
Such land shall be considered as an undeveloped land
and to impose an annual tax of 0.5% in respect of such land
for the year 2017 and to order to pay such tax to the Pradeshiya
Sabha Ibbagamuwa before 30th April 2017.
H. G. S
ATHYAKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the Office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.
10–646/11
––––––––––––––––––
IBBAGAMUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Tax on Selling Lands for the Year 2017
IN terms of Section 154 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 15 of 1987,
I hereby notify that in case of any land situated within the
limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa is sold by an
auctioneer, broker or his employee or agent in a public auction
or whatever manner a tax equivalent to one percent of the
amount received from the sale of such land should be imposed
and levied for the year 2017 by the seller, employee or
auctioneer or his agent under the resolution No. 4231-7 at the
Committee of implementing decisions and policies held on
12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
H. G. S
ATHYAKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the Office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.
10–646/6
––––––––––––––
IBBAGAMUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Business Tax for the Y ear 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of
Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1572
read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I hereby notify for the
public information that I have decided to impose business
tax for the year 2017 in respect of the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa as follows under the resolution
No. 4231-4 at the Committee of implementing decisions and
policies held on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa.
By virtue of the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa under Sub-section (1) of Section 152 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub-
section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, I, do hereby determine
that a business tax should be imposed for the year 2017 from
each person who maintains, within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa in 2017, any business for
which a license should not be obtained under provisions of
any by law made thereunder or any tax is not required to be
paid under Section 150 of the said Act, in case the receipts in
the year 2016 of the said business fall within the limits of any
object number indicated in the Column I, as per the rates
specified in the corresponding Column II of the following
Schedule.
H. G . S
ATHY AKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Income received from the
business during 2013 Rs. cts.
Where not exceed Rs. 6,000 Non
Where exceeds Rs. 6,000 but does not exceed 90 0
  Rs. 12,000
Where exceeds Rs. 12,000 but does not exceed 180 0
  Rs. 18,750
Where exceeds Rs. 18,750 but does not exceed 300 0
  Rs. 75,000
Where exceeds Rs. 75,000 but does not exceed 1,200 0
  Rs. 150,000
Where exceeds Rs.150,000 3,000 0
10–646/4
–––––––––––––––––
IBBAGAMUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Tax for Business Places for the Year - 2017
IN terms of Section 102(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 and Section 21 Chapter (III) of slaughterhouse Ordinance
of 1957, it is hereby notified for the public information that
following premises situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Ibbagamuwa are appropriate for the maintenance of
slaughterhouses under the resolution No. 4231-11 moved at
the Committee of implementing decisions and policies held
on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
H. G . S
ATHY AKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.
Business Places :
1. Beef stall at the weekly fair of Hiripitiya
2. Beef stall at the Pannala
3. Beef stall at the Kumbalanga
4. Beef stall at the Dethilianga
5. Pig stall at the weekly fair, Hiripitiya
6. Beef stall at Maiwela
7. Meat stall No. 01 at Thiththawegala
8. Meat stall No. 02 at Thiththawegala
10–646/10
––––––––––––––––
IBBAGAMUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Tax on Animals and Vehicles – 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under
Section 147 to be read with Section 148 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that a tax
referred to in Column I in the following schedule should pay
for the year 2017 under the resolution No. 4231-7 moved at
the Committee of implementing decisions and policies held
on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
H. G . S
ATHY AKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1573
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
(i) For every vehicle other than a Motor 25   0
  vehicle, motor tri car, motor lorry, Motor
bicycle, cart, Jin rickshaw, bicycle or tricycle
(ii) For every bicycle or tricycle or bicycle car or
bicycle cart –
(a) For business purpose 18   0
(b) For a purpose of non-business 4   0
(iii)For every Cart 20   0
(iv) For every Hand tractor 10   0
(v) For every Rickshaw 7  50
(vi) For every Horse, pony or mule 15   0
(vii) For every Tusker 50   0
(viii)For every Dog 20  0
(2) Children’s vehicles with wheels of 26 inches diameter,
wheelbarrow, hand carts used only for private purposes and
hand carts those not used for business purpose are released
from the above charges.
(3) The above term "business purpose" shall include;
carrying out or transporting any substance, goods or any
written or printed stationeries for sale or any other business
or an Industry.
10–646/7
––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA   IBBAGAMUWA
Display of Advertisements  - 2017
IT is hereby notified for the public information that I Have
decided to levy following charges for the year 2017 in respect
of the display of advertisements within the area of authority
of Pradeshiya Sabha under the resolution No. 4231-10 moved
at the Committee of implementing decisions and policies held
on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
H. G. S
ATHYAKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At the office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.
CHARGES  TO  BE  LEVIED  IN  RESPECT  OF  NOTICE
BOARDS  ARE  AS  FOLLOWS
Rs. cts.
01. For an advertisement displayed with the help 50 0
of a wall (For a period of 03 months -
per 01 sq.ft.)
02. Permanent notice board 50 0
(For a period of 06 months - per 01 sq.ft.)
03. For the display of temporary advertisements 30 0
made of fabric or polythene
(For a period of 02 weeks - per 01 sq.ft.)
10–646/9
–––––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA   IBBAGAMUWA
Imposing Charges for the Year - 2017
I hereby notify for the public information that the following
resolution No. 4231-9 moved at the Committee of implementing
decisions and policies held on 12.08.2016 at the Pradeshiya
Sabha Ibbagamuwa.
H. G. S
ATHYAKANTHI,
Secretary,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Ibbagamuwa.
At office of Pradeshiya Sabha Ibbagamuwa,
29th  August, 2016.
Type of Service Fee
Rs. cts.
01. A service maintenance fund for transport of 1,000 0
timber - one trip
02. Building application 250 0
03. Issue of certificate of compliance 200 0
04. Registration of a tube well 200 0
05. Fee for duplicates of agreements 200 0
06. Application fee for felling unsafe trees 200 0
07. Application fee for auction of lands 5,000 0
08. Road maintenance fee for the transport of sand 1,500 0
(for 03 months)
09. Application fee for amendment of assessment 100 0
10. Surveying fee for certificates of prohibiting 100 0
ownership
11. Registration of contractors :
(i) Up to Rs. 100,000.00 1,000 0
(ii) For industries exceeding Rs. 100,000.00 2,000 0

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1574
12. Registration of suppliers 1,000 0
13. (i) Bicycle license fee 4 0
(ii)Bicycle sticker fees 21 0
14. (i) Registration fee of Three Wheelers 100 0
(ii)Three wheel license fee 500 0
15. Approval of survey plans 200 0
16. Application fee for entertainment Tax 200 0
17. Application fee for street lines 600 0
18. Crematorium charges :
(i) Within the administrative limits 7,500 0
(ii)Outside the administrative limits 9,000 0
19. Transport of meat within the area of 1,000 0
 authority of Pradeshiya Sabha (per month)
20. Letting Sabha premises for conducting shows 1,500 0
21. For empty water bowser 1,059 0
22. For bowser with water 1,359 0
23. Levying charges for marketing promotion 3,000 0
programs (per one day)
24. For Motor Grader per one hour 4,087 0
(Prices will be changes for the year 2017
according to the prices of the authority
of machinery)
25. For J. C. B. Machine per one hour 2,650 0
(Prices will be changes for the Year 2017
according to the prices of the authority
of machinery)
10–646/8
–––––––––––––––
Type of Service Fee
Rs. cts.
within every quarter ended on 31st March, 30th June, 30th
September and 31st December of the respective year.
In case the Acreage tax imposed for the Year 2017 is paid
in full to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 31st January, 2017 a
discount of Ten percent (10%) and in case the Acreage tax for
each quarter is paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha before the final
date of each month of each  quarter a discount of Five percent
(5%) will be paid.
J. A. S
UJEEW ANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing
powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
RESOLUTION  ON  ACREAGE
"By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under
Sub Section (1) of Section 146 of  Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.
15 of 1987, I hereby determine that the verification enforced
in the Year 2016 should be adopted for the year 2017 and,
(a) To levy an annual Acreage Tax of 10/- for the Year
2017 per each Hectare of the respective land of Five
Hectares and lands exceeding Five Hectares situated
within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Kuliyapitiya which have not been released from
Acreage Tax and retained under permanent or regular
cultivation by virtue of powers vested in the
Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 135 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, and
(b) To levy an annual Acreage Tax of Fifty Rupees (Rs.50)
per each Hectare in respect of each land more than
one Hectare but less than Five Hectares in the area
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya Since
the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kuliyapitiya has been published as special area in
Part IV (A) of the Gazette paper dated 10th March
1989 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
by the Hon. Minister in Charge of the subject of
Local Government in terms of sub provision of Sub
section (3) of Section 134 of the aforesaid Act, and
(c) Ten tax should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha in
four equal instalments within every quarter ended
on 31st March, 30th june, 30th September and 31st
December of the respective year in terms of Sub-
section (6) of Section 134 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act.
10-645/2
PRADESHIYA SABHA - KULIYAPITIYA
Resolution of Imposing Acreage Tax for
the Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 146(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 to be
read with Section 9.3 of the said act, I, J. A. Sujeewanee
Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kuliyapitiya who execute powers and discharge duties of the
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine, that,
imposing of Acreage for the Year 2017 in respect of the area
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya should be as
follows under the Resolution No. 3065 dated 24th August
2016.
I further notify that the tax imposed for the Year 2017 should
be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha in four equal installments

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1575
PRADESHIYA SABHA - KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Assessment Tax for the Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 134(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 to be
read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, Jayasinghe
Arachchilage Sujeewanee Jayasinghe the Secretary to the
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya who execute powers and
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya do
hereby determine that imposing of Acreage for the Year 2017in
respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kuliyapitiya should be as follows under the Resolution
No.3064 dated 24th August 2016.
I hereby determine that the Assessment tax imposed for
the year 2017 should be paid to the office of the Pradeshiya
sabha in four equal instalments during each quarter ended
on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December.
J. A. S
UJEEWANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing
powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
RESOLUTION ON ASSESSMENT
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Kuliyapitiya under Sub-section (1) of Section 146 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I do hereby determine
that the Assessment/Verification of annual value implemented
within the following year based on the Verification/
Assessment prescribed for the Year 2012 in respect of all
houses, building, lands and tenements situated within the
limits of the areas declared as developed areas should be
adopted for the Year 2016, and by virtue of powers vested in
me under Section 134 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of
1987 to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby
determine that an Assessment Tax of Two point Five percent
(2.5%) in respect of the said property based on the aforesaid
annual value should be imposed for the Year 2017, and
In terms of the provisions of Sub-section (6) of Section
134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act the Assessment tax should be
paid to the fund of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya in four
equal instalments during each quarter ended on 31 March, 30
June, 30 September and 31 December.
In Case the assessment tax for the Year 2017 is paid in full
to the office of Pradeshiya Sabha before 31 January 2017 a
discount of Ten percent (10%) and in case the Assessment
Tax for each quarter is paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha before
the final date of each month of each quarter a discount of five
percent (5%) will be paid.
10-645/1
PRADESHIYA SABHA - KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Business License Fees for Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 152(1) Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 to be
read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Sujeewanee
Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kuliyapitiya who execute powers and discharge duties of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine that,
imposing of Business License Fees for the Year 2017 in respect
of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya
should be as follows under the Resolution No. 3067 dated
24th August 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEWANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing
powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya.
RESOLUTION  ON  BUSINESS  TAX
By virute of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under
Sub-section (1) of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.
15 of 1987 to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do
hereby determine that a Business Tax be imposed for the Year
2017 from each person who maintains, within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya in 2017 any
business for which a license should not be obtained under
provisions of any by law made thereunder or any tax which is
not required to be paid under Section 150 of the said Act, in
case the receipts in the Year 2016 of the said business fall
within the limits of any object number indicated in the Column
I, as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II of
the following schedule and the business tax should be paid
to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya before 30 April, 2017.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Income received from the business Tax to be paid
 in the previous year Rs. cts.
1. From Rs. 100.00 to 6,000.00 No
2. From Rs. 6,000.00 to Rs.12,000.00 90 0
3. From Rs. 12,000.00 to Rs. 18,750.00 180 0
4. From Rs. 18,750.00 to Rs. 75,000.00 360 0
5. From Rs, 75,000 to Rs. 150,000.00 1,200 0
6. When exceeding Rs.150,000.00 3,000 0
10-645/4

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1576
PRADESHIYA SABHA, KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Charges on License in Respect of
Display of Advertisement for the Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I
J. A. Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya
Sabha, Kuliyapitiya who execute powers and discharge duties
of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine
that, imposing of charges on licenses in respect of display of
Advertisement for the Year 2017 in respect of the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya should be as
follows under the Resolution No. 3071 dated 24 August, 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEW ANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and Officer of executing
powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
IMPOSING  CHARGES  ON  ADVERTISEMENT  LICENSES
FOR  THE  YEAR  2017
I hereby determine to impose and levy charges mentioned
in the following Schedule for 2017 in respect of display of
advertisements in terms of the provisions set out in the By
law on Advertisements and Visual Environment approved
and published by the Hon. Minister in charge of the subject
of Local Government, in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 570/
7, on 23.08.1988 which was published in the Gazette dated
14.07.2000 to the effect that the said by law was adopted at
the General Meeting held on 04.05.2000 for implementation
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
S
CHEDULE 01
LICENSE FEES FOR DISPLAY OF
ADVERTISEMENTS FOR THE YEAR 2017
Rs. 
01. For any banner, cutout, displayed for a  2.00
period of more than one month and less
than 03 months - per 01sq.ft.
02. Permanent notice boards - For a period of  100.00
one year - per 01sq.ft.
03. Temporary notice boards - For period of  50.00
one month - per 01 sq.ft.
10-645/8
PRADESHIYA SABHA KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Charges in Respect of Temporary
Shops Sales Outlet for the Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I
J. A. Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya
Sabha, Kuliyapitiya who execute  powers and discharge
duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya do hereby
determine that, imposing of charges in respect of temporary
shops and sales outlets for the Year 2017 in respect of the are
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya should be as
follows under the Resolution No. 3072 dated 24 August, 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEW ANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing
powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
TAXES ON TEMPORARY SHOPS AND SALES OUTLETS
FOR TH YEAR 2017
I hereby determine that charges set out in the following
Schedules No. 01 and No. 02 should be imposed and levied
for the Year 2017 in respect of temporary shops and sales
outlets respectively within the area of authority of Pradeshiya
Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
S
CHEDULE NO. 01
LICENSE FEE FOR THE TEMPORARY PROPAGANDA SALES OUTLETS
WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF PARDESHIYA SABHA,
KULIYAPITIYA
per one day Rs. 1,000.00
per week Rs. 1,500.00
per month Rs. 3,000.00
SCHEDULE NO. 02
TAX ON TEMPORARY SALES OUTLET
I hereby determine to impose and levy following charges
from temporary sales outlets erected for fair occasions.
Rs. cts.
1. From 1 sq.ft. to 5 sq.ft. per day  25 0
2. From 6 sq.ft. to 10 sq.ft. per day  50 0
3. From 11 sq.ft. to 15 sq.ft. per day  75 0
4. From 16 sq.ft. to 25 sq.ft. per day  100 0

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1577
5. From 26 sq.ft. to 50 sq.ft. per day  125 0
6. From 51 sq.ft. to 100 sq.ft. per day   150 0
7. From 101 sq.ft. to 150 sq.ft. per day   175 0
8. From 151 sq.ft. to 200 sq.ft. per day   200 0
9. From 201 sq.ft. to 300 sq.ft. per day  300 0
10. From 301 sq.ft. to 400 sq.ft. per day   400 0
11. From 401 sq.ft. to 500 sq.ft. Per day  500 0
12. For every exceeding day  700 0
13. For Ice cream bicycle per day  100 0
14. For Ice cream van per day  500 0
15. Itinerant sale, shops, sweets per day   100 0
16. For private parking place for vehicles   750 0
per day
17. For places securing bicycles and motor  500 0
bicycles per day
10-645/9
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA,  KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Tax on under Developed Lands for
the Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I
J. A. Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya
Sabha, Kuliyapitiya who execute powers and discharge duties
of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine
that, imposing tax on under developed land for the Year 2017
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya
should be as follows under the Resolution No. 3075 dated 24
August, 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEWANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing
powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
IMPOSING TAX ON UNDER DEVELOPED LANDS FOR
THE YEAR 2017
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under
Sub section (1) of Section 153 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.
15 of 1987, in any land situated within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya which is suitable for
constructing buildings or suitable for permanent or regular,
cultivation :
(a) If any building has not been constructed, or
(b) if the said land is not used for permanent  or regular
cultivation, or
I, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya do
hereby propose that such land should be considered as an
undeveloped land and to impose an Annual Tax of 0.2% out
of the Capital value of each land which have been deemed as
an undeveloped land and to order to pay the tax on
undeveloped lands to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya
before 30 April, 2017.
10-645/12
––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA SABHA, KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Charges in Respect of Providing
Services and Letting Property of the Pradeshiya
Sabha for the Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I  J.
A. Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya
Sabha, Kuliyapitiya who execute powers and discharge duties
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine
that, imposing of charges in respect of providing services
and letting property of the Pradeshiya Sabha for the Year
2017 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
Kuliyapitiya should be as follows under the Resolution No.
3073 dated 24 August, 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEWANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing
powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya.
IMPOSING CHARGES IN RESPECT OF PROVIDING
SERVICES AND LETTING PROPERTY OF THE
PRADESHIYA SABHA FOR THE YEAR 2017
I hereby determine that the charges set out in the following
schedule No. 01 should be imposed and levied in respect of
letting assests of the pradeshiya sabha and charges set out
in the Schedule No. 02 should be levied in respect of providing
charges of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Kuliyapitiya for the Year
2017.
Rs. cts.

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1578
SCHEDULE NO. 01
Serial Property Charges to be levied
No. Rs. cents
1. Letting the premises owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha for conducting shows/sales by levying 3,000 0
charges per day
Refundable deposit 5,000 0
2. Letting sports ground for purposes those not levying charges 1,000 0
Refundable surety deposit 2,000 0
3. Letting the premises owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha for conducting a sales outlet perday 500 0
4. Letting community hall with electricity for conducting fairs per day 8,000 0
Refundable deposit 3,000 0
5. Letting community hall for conducting meetings, seminars, and workshops without levying 5,000 0
charges
Refundable deposit 2,000 0
S
CHEDULE NO. 02
Serial Service Category Charges to be paid
No. Rs. Cents
01. Fess for the issue of a street line certificate 600 0
02. Fees for building a application 200 0
03. Bacco machine per 1 hour 2,861 0
04. Road roller per day 6,325 0
05. For one Water bowser 1350 .00 + (50.00 x 1km)
06. Tractor per day 4,500 0
07. For 01 load of gully bowser 1400.00 + (75 x 1km) + 2600
08. Fees for Tender Form For letting lands 300.00
For other assests 1,000 0
09. Fees for subdivision of lands 250 0
10. For issuing of any other certificate 500 0
11. Initial payments for construction of buildings - Residential if a part is constructed 2.00
purposes - per 01sqft. if a new house 2.00
12. Initial payments for construction of buildings - Non-resdential 2 0
purposes  - per 01 sqft.
13. Charges for the approval of subdivision of lands for development plan 500 0
For Block out plan 500 0
14. Issue of a certificated of conformity 500 0
15. Application fee for  altering proprietorship 100 0
16. Entering name in the Assessment register 100 0
17. Approval of Plan 500 0
18. Extension of the period of building applications for one year 200 0
19. Charges for Environment License 1,250 0
20. Charges for registering suppliers 500 0
21. Charges for registering contractors 1,500 0
22. Inspection of risky trees 500 0
10-645/10
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA  - KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing charges in respect of Parking Vehicles for the Year - 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of Sections 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, J. A.
Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya execute powers and discharge duties of the

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1579
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine that, imposing of charges in respect of parking vehicles for the year 2017
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya should be as follows under the resolution No. 3074 dated 24th
August 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEW ANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing  Powers and Duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya.
CHARGES  IN  RESPECT  OF  PARKING  VEHICLES  FOR  THE  YEAR  - 2017
I hereby determine that the charges out in the following Schedule  should be imposed and levied for the year 2017
in respect of parking vehicles within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya.
SCHEDULE 01
Ser. No. Registration fee Annual Parking
Paid only once fee
Rs. Cents Rs. Cents.
01. For every three wheeler  100 0  500 0
02. For hired vans other than passenger transport busses  100 0  700 0
10–645/11
–––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA SABHA - KULIYAPITIYA
Imposing Fees for Licenses issued for the Year 2017 under by laws Respective for Maintaining a
Certain Industry
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of Sections 147 and 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 to be
read  with Section 9.3 of the said Act 1, J. A. Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya who
execute powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine that, imposing of License
fees for the year 2017 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya should be as follows under the
resolution No. 3068 dated 24th August 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEW ANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and officer of executing  powers and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya.
RESOLUTION  ON  LICENSE  FEES
By virtue of powers vested in me under Section 147 and 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 to be read with
sub Section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, I hereby resolve to impose a license fee in respect of the issue of a license for the
year 2017 authorizing a certain place or a premises to be utilized in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya for any purpose,
referred to in this column I as per the rates specified  in the corresponding Column II of the same Schedule, for the year 2017
under the said by law or a by - law made under the said by law or a standard by law apoted by Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya
and
In an instance where such place referred to in the schedule is a hotel, a restaurant or a lodge registered with or
approved and accepted by the Tourist Board in Sri Lanka under Tourist Board Act No.14 of 1968, I hereby determine to
impose and levy a license fee of one percent (1%) of receiving in the year 2016 from the said hotel, restaurant or lodge for the
year 2017 and the said license fee should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya before 30th April, 2017.

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1580
Column I Column II
Annual value of the place (Rs.)
Serial Nature of the Business Maximum fee Maximum fee Maximum fee
No. in the case in the case of in the case
of not exceeding Rs. 751 exceeding
exceeding but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Dangerous Business :
01 Running a mattel quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02 Manufacturing grams and bites 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03 Packeting and selling ice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04 Running a place for manufacturing ice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05 Running  a tea or coffee boutique 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06 Mechanized manufacture of coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07 Running  an oil mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08 Manufacturing coir or other fiber (coir mill) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09 Manufacturing coir or other coir products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10 Twisting ropes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11 Running  a timber mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Running a mechanized timber mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13 Manufacturing and repairing jeweleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Running a smithy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15 Storing and selling empty bags or empty bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16 Repair of bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17 Storing crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18 Running a electrically operated press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19 Running a manually operated press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20 Mechanized manufacture of roofing tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21 For a kerosene oil cart 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22 From 5-10 kerosene oil barrels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23 Exceeding 10 kerosene oil barrles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24 Winding motors 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25 Running a lathe machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26 Running a place for storing batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27 Repair of televisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28 Repair of electronic equipment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29 Running a place for filling gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30 Running place for selling gas cylinders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31 Running a western dispensary (private) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32 Running an indigenous dispensary (private) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33 Storing and selling western medicine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34 Storing and selling indigenous medicine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35 Running a place for making dentures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36 Running a power operated textile industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37 Storing and selling of building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
38 Running a place for sand mining 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39 Storing and selling books and stationeries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40 Selling mixed manture (synthetic)

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1581
Column I Column II
Annual value of the place (Rs.)
Serial Nature of the Business Maximum fee Maximum fee Maximum fee
No. in the case in the case of in the case
of not exceeding Rs. 751 exceeding
exceeding but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
41 Selling agro chemicals and agro equipment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42 Manufacturing coconut shell coal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43 Running a coconut shell coal pit 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44 Running a wholesale of cigarettes and tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45 Manufacturing soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46 Storing old metal ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47 Running a carpenter shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48 Manufacturing and selling coconut rafters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49 Manufacturing and storing cooled drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50 Manufacturing sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51 Storing coir 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52 Combing and drying coir 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53 Manufacture of coir products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54 Dying fibers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55 Painting or varnishing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56 Grinding chilies and spices such as coffee 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57 Vulcanizing tire tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
58 Mechanized repair of tires 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
59 Manufacturing and storing concrete or clay pipes or clay/ 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
concrete products
60 Manufacture of fiber glass ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
61 Running a cement block workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
62 Manufacturing and kilning bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63 Running a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
64 Manufacturing and selling papadam 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
65 Storing cashew and processing kernel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66 Running a milk bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
67 Manufacturing and selling copra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68 Running a place for manufacturing desiccated coconut 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
69 Kilning lime stones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70 Running a place for cutting gravel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
71 Running a clay pit 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
72 Supplying food and beverages 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
73 Running a restaurant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
74 Collecting and selling coconut 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
75 Running a cool drink factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
76 Selling indigenous medicine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
77 Manufacturing garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
78 Manufacturing bathiks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
79 Manufacturing garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
80 Manufacturing and selling coffins 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
81 Running a place for carving wood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1582
Hazardous Businesses :
1 Curing leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2 Manufacturing leather products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3 Running a dairy farm (05-25 cows) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4 Running a dairy farm (25-50 cows) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5 Running a dairy farm (exceeding 50 cows) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6 Running a poultry farm (up to 100 poultry) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7 Running a poultry farm (exceeding 100 poultry) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8 Running a poultry farm (exceeding 200 pultry) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9 Running a goat farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10 Running a cattle arm (05-25 cattle) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11 Running a cattle arm (25-50 cattle) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Running a cattle arm (exceeding 50 cattle) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13 Running a grocery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Running a place for storing dried fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15 For a dried fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16 Storing and selling poultry food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17 Running a stores of animal food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18 Running a place for collecting toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19 Manufacturing vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20 Running a place for selling fruits 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21 Running a place for selling vegetables 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22 Running a place for selling fresh meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23 Running a slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24 Running a place for selling chilled meat /fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25 Running a place for storing eggs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26 Running a private fish market 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27 Itinerant selling of fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28 Running a place for collecting milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29 Running a lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30 Running a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31 Running an eatery, cafeteria 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32 Running an ice factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Hazardous and Dangerous Businesses :
1 Running a laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2 Manufacturing crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3 Running a place for recharging batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4 Running a welding workshop or grill workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5 Repair of motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6 Running a place for servicing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7 Running a ting workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Column I Column II
Annual value of the place (Rs.)
Serial Nature of the Business Maximum fee Maximum fee Maximum fee
No. in the case in the case of in the case
of not exceeding Rs. 751 exceeding
exceeding but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1583
8 Running a garage for making bodies for motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9 Running a snack bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10 Running a tailor shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11 Running a barber shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Storing and selling cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13 Running a wholesale of perishable food, spices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Repair of motor bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15 Manufacture of iron ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10–645/5
––––––––––––––––
Column I Column II
Annual value of the place
Serial Nature of the Business Maximum fee Maximum fee Maximum fee
No. in the case in the case of in the case
of not exceeding Rs. 751 exceeding
exceeding but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
KULIYAPITIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Tax on Animals and Vehicles
 for year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of
Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I. J. A.
Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the secretary to the Pradeshiya
Sabha Kuliyapitiya who  excute powers and discharge duties
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine
that, imposing of tax on animals and vehicles for the year
2017 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
Kuliyapitiya should be as follows under the resolution No.
3069 dated 24 August 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEW ANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and Officer of executing  powers,
and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya.
TAX  ON  ANIMALS  AND  VEHICLES
By virtue of powers vested in me under Section 147 and
Section 148 to be read with Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I hereby determine
that an annual tax for the year 2017 should be imposed and
levied from every person who keeps in his possession any
vehicle or animal referred to in Column I in the following
schedule within the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya,
as specified in the corresponding Column II and on completion
of 30 days of the possession of such vehicles and animals.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
01. (i) For every vehicle other than motor 25  0
vehicles, motor tricar, motor lorry,
motor bicycle, cart, jin rickshaw,
bicycle or a tricycle
(ii) For every bicycles or a tricyle or
bicycle a car
(a) If used for business purpose 18  0
(b) If used for non-business purpose 4  0
(iii)For every cart 20  0
(iv) For every hand cart 10  0
(v) For every rickshaw 7 50
(vi) For every horse, pony or mule 15  0
(vii) For every tusker 50 0
2. Children's vehicles with wheels not exceeding the
diameter of 26 inches and hand tractors utilized for business
purposes only at private places and hand tractors those not
utilized for non-business purposes are exempted from the
above taxes.
10–645/6

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1584
KULIYAPITIYA PRADESHIYA SABHA
Imposing Industrial Tax for year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under provisions of Section 150(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with
Section 9.3 of the said Act, I. J. A. Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the secretary to the pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya who  excute
powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine  that, imposing of industrial tax for
the year 2017 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya sabha Kuliyapitiya should be as follows under the resolution
No. 3066 dated 24 August 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEWANEE JAY ASINGHE,
Secretary and Officer of executing  powers, and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub Section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be
read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that, an industrial tax for the year 2017 on each industry carried
out within the administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya referred to in Column 1 in the following schedule as per
the rates specified in the corresponding column II  should be imposed and levied and the said industrial tax should be paid
to the Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya before 30th April 2017.
Column I Column II
Serial Nature of the industry Annual Value of the place (Rs.)
No. Maximum fee Maximum fee in Maximum fee
in the case of the case of in the case of
not exceeding exceeding exceeding
Rs. 750 Rs. 751 but not Rs. 1,500
exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. A place fo r selling foreign roofing tiles, bricks,Mattel and Blocks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. A place for manufacturing glass ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Manufacturing brake Liner 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Manufacturing shoes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Manufacturing clay products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. A Place for making garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Manufacturing incense sticks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Twisting coir ropes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Manufacturing and selling fabric carpets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Manufacturing and selling Papadam 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Cleaving and selling coconut timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Manufacturing cigars and Beedi 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a iron smithy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Manufacturing and selling flower pots 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Running a place for manufacturing exercise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Running a place for manufacturing pastel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a place for manufacturing paper 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 51 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1585
18. Running a place for cutting and polishing gems 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Running a place or manufacturing mattresses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Running a place for making stone monuments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Running a place for manufacturing silencer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Framing pictures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Processing and selling cashew nut kernel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Manufacturing pallets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
`25. Runnig a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Manufacturing and selling mushrooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Manufacturing concrete blocks and concrete products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Running a place for generating electricty 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Manufacturing computer software 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Manufacturing needle work and garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Making name boards 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10-645/3
–––––––––––––––––
KULIYAPITIYA PRADESHIYA SABHA
Imposing Charges on Itinerant Sale for Year 2017
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I. J. A.
Sujeewanee Jayasinghe, the secretary to the pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya who  execute powers and discharge duties of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya do hereby determine  that, imposing of charges on itinerant sale for the year 2017 in respect
of the area of authority of Pradeshiya sabha Kuliyapitiya should be as follows under the resolution No. 3070 dated 24th
August 2016.
J. A. S
UJEEW ANEE JAYASINGHE,
Secretary and office of executing  powers, and duties,
Pradeshiya Sabha Kuliyapitiya.
RESOLUTION
By virtue on itinerant sale made by the Hon. Minister of Local Government in the North Western Province and
published in Part IV(a) of the Gazette Paper No. 1663 and dated 16.07.2010 and subsequently published in Part IV(a) of the
Extraordinary Gazette Paper No. 1703/18 dated 28.04.2011 has been adopted at the General Meeting held on 18.01.2011 that
the said by law should be implemented within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha and it is hereby determined that the
charges set out in the following Schedules should be imposed for the year 2017 in terms of the said By-law
Column I Column II
Serial Nature of the industry Annual Value of the place (Rs.)
No. Maximum fee Maximum fee in Maximum fee
in the case of the case of in the case of
not exceeding exceeding exceeding
Rs. 750 Rs. 751 but not Rs. 1,500
exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 52 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1586
KADUGANNAWA  URBAN  COUNCIL
Imposing  of License charges for Conducting and Industrial as per Subsidiary Legislation Year - 2017
IT is hereby inform that as per the Urban Council Ordinance 255, Sub Chapter 27(3) and by virtue of the powers vested and
subject to the limitations and conditions to impose license tax and other taxes by Urban Council Kadugannawa, a resolution
has been approved by the Management Committee of the Urban Council Paper 05(vii) and the Urban Council Meeting held
on 25.08.2016 with the effect from year of 2017.
Accordingly to conducting any  industrial within the limits of Urban Council, Kadugannawa, under the Subsidiary
Legislation the license charges shall be paid to the Urban Council, Kadugannawa, for the year of 2017 respectively.
D. M. P. K. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Urban Council Kadugannawa.
Office of the Urban Council Kadugannawa,
05th September, 2016.
RESOLUTION
The resolution made by the Urban Council Kadugannawa as per the Urban Council Ordinance and by virtue of
powers vested and excepted as per Subsidiary Legislation as per the Ordinance of 255 and as per Chapter 164 and 165
Ordinance of the Chapter 42 of 1979 of the Municipal Council and Urban Council amended by the Ordinance No. 20, Year 1985
amended Ordinance of the Municipal Council and the Urban Council of the Schedule I, mentioned Sub-schedule Column II
Annual Value of the place
In the case of In the case of In the case of
Serial Nature of the business not exceeding exceeding exceeding
No. Rs. 750 Rs. 751 but not Rs. 1,500
exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 Selling king coconut and tender coconut 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02 Selling wade, murukku, bites packets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03 Selling textiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04 Selling shoes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05 Seling shopping items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06 Selling flower nursery, vegetable and fruit nursery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07 Selling books and newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08 Supplying building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09 Packeting and selling grains 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10 Selling vegetable and fruits 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11 Selling synthetic flowers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Mobile banking service 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13 Selling sacred items including wicks, incense sticks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Selling watches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15 Selling breads, buns by carts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10–645/7
––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 53 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1587
mentioned as per the said Ordinance the imposed of tax or registered under the Ceylon Tourist Board and a industrial or
approved by the Tourist Board and a Hotel or Restaurant or Place of accommodation to conducting of the business of hotel
or restaurant or accommodation license charges shall pay (1%) on the annual income or less than substantial double amount
- describe in the Schedule Column II will be the license charges to impose by the Urban Council Kadugannawa respectively.
SCHEDULE  No. 01
Column I Column II
Annual value Annual value Annual value
No. Nature of Business up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750 over
upto Rs.l,500 Rs.l,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
(a) Business of licence to be obtained  :
01. Conducting a bakery 500 0 750 0 1000 0
02. Conducting an eating house 500 0 750 0 1000 0
03. Conducting a tea or coffee shop 500 0 750 0 1000 0
04. Conducting a restaurant 500 0 750 0 1000 0
05. Conducting a hotel 500 0 750 0 1000 0
06. Conducting a hostel 500 0 750 0 1000 0
07. Conducting a barber saloon 500 0 750 0 1000 0
08. Conducting a fish stall 500 0 750 0 1000 0
09. Conducting a meat stall 500 0 750 0 1000 0
10. Conducting a vegetable stall 500 0 750 0 1000 0
11. Conducting a fruits stall 500 0 750 0 1000 0
12. Conducting a dairy farm and selling of milk 500 0 750 0 1000 0
13. Selling foods 500 0 750 0 1000 0
14. Producing and selling bites 500 0 750 0 1000 0
15. Conducting a bridal dressing saloon 500 0 750 0 1000 0
16. Conducting a beauty saloon 500 0 750 0 1000 0
Dangerous Business :
01. Selling or storage excavating granite, gravel, stones 500 0 750 0 1000 0
02. Producing of cool drinks or conducting above 100 bottles of 500 0 750 0 1000 0
cool drinks storage
03. Manufacturing of Ice cream 500 0 750 0 1000 0
04. Storage of Coconut oil above 300 liters 500 0 750 0 1000 0
05. Storage of vegetable oil over 50 liter except coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1000 0
06. Storage of matcher boxes above 100 dozens 500 0 750 0 1000 0
07. Storage of bricks and tiles 500 0 750 0 1000 0
08. Producing or storage fiber and other fiber 500 0 750 0 1000 0
09. Storage of used cloths 500 0 750 0 1000 0
10. Storage of grains or pulses more than 250 kilograms 500 0 750 0 1000 0
11. Manufacturing or repairing jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1000 0
12. Conducting a machinery saw - mill 500 0 750 0 1000 0
13. Conducting of saw mill by electric machines 500 0 750 0 1000 0
14. Conducting a wood store 500 0 750 0 1000 0
15. Conducting a firewood store 500 0 750 0 1000 0

<!-- page 54 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1588
16. Conducting blacksmith work 500 0 750 0 1000 0
17. Storage over 250kg to whole sale flour, salt, sugar 500 0 750 0 1000 0
18. Storage of empty bottles and sacks 500 0 750 0 1000 0
19. Conducting a work shop for repairing bicycles and motor bicycles 500 0 750 0 1000 0
20. Storage above 50 brand or used rebuilt tyres or tubes 500 0 750 0 1000 0
21. Storage usage papers or used newspapers 500 0 750 0 1000 0
22. Conducting a spray painting institute 500 0 750 0 1000 0
23. Conducting a blacksmith works by electrical instruments/Non 500 0 750 0 1000 0
electrical instruments
24. Conducting a printers 500 0 750 0 1000 0
25. Conducting a tinkering workshop 500 0 750 0 1000 0
26. Conducting a industrial of brasswares 500 0 750 0 1000 0
27. Conducting a coconut oil mill 500 0 750 0 1000 0
28. Tanning of leather and selling 500 0 750 0 1000 0
29. Conducting poultry yard (for meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1000 0
30. Manufacturing of soaps 500 0 750 0 1000 0
31. Storing of coconut shell - charcoal and manufacturing 500 0 750 0 1000 0
32. Keeping or grinding animal bone 500 0 750 0 1000 0
33. Producing or storage of household items 500 0 750 0 1000 0
34. Industrial of cane furniture 500 0 750 0 1000 0
35. Industrial of soda 500 0 750 0 1000 0
36. Selling leather products 500 0 750 0 1000 0
37. Industrial of camphor 500 0 750 0 1000 0
38. Manufacturing writing inkpad and stencil ink 500 0 750 0 1000 0
39. Maufacturing of cloths -blue 500 0 750 0 1000 0
40. Industrial of cement blocks by machines 500 0 750 0 1000 0
Hazardous Business :
01. Manufacturing chemical fertilizer and storing 5000 7500 1,0000
02. Conducting a poultry farm above 100 birds 5000 7500 1,0000
03. Conducting a veterinary clinic 5000 7500 1,0000
04. Storing short eats for sale which are subject to perusable 5000 7500 1,0000
05. Storage dry fish, salt, tin fish above 3 tons 5000 7500 1,0000
06. Storage of cement above 25 tons 5000 7500 1,0000
07. Making or storage of tobacco 5000 7500 1,0000
08. Conducting animal food mash store 5000 7500 1,0000
09. Storage punak above 1 ton 5000 7500 1,0000
10. Storage new metal or solid metal 5000 7500 1,0000
11. Storage metallic wreckage things 5000 7500 1,0000
12. Conducting carpentry workshop 5000 7500 1,0000
13. Manufacturing of confectionery 5000 7500 1,0000
14. Storage lime stones or lime 5000 7500 1,0000
15. Storage painting paints, varnish or distemper paints above 100 liters 5000 7500 1,0000
Column I Column II
Annual value Annual value Annual value
No. Nature of Business up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750 over
Rs.l,500 Rs.l,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 55 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1589
16. Grinding coffee, grains, pulses, spices or flour 500 0 750 0 1000 0
17. Grinding grains or pulses by machine 500 0 750 0 1000 0
18. Manufacturing of candles 500 0 750 0 1000 0
19. Conducting a institute for vulcanize tire and tube 500 0 750 0 1000 0
20. Manufacturing of cement goods or asbestos cement goods 500 0 750 0 1000 0
21. Manufacturing and maintaining query 500 0 750 0 1000 0
22. Storage freeze meat and fish 500 0 750 0 1000 0
23. Conducting a studio 500 0 750 0 1000 0
24. Manufacturing syrup or fruit drinks 500 0 750 0 1000 0
25. Moished of coconut husk or soak 500 0 750 0 1000 0
26. Manufacturing brushes (except tooth brush) 500 0 750 0 1000 0
27. Collecting toddy 500 0 750 0 1000 0
28. Producing or storing vinegar 500 0 750 0 1000 0
29. Tinned fruits, fish and other food items 500 0 750 0 1000 0
30. Manufacturing of or conducting a storage centre of perfumes 500 0 750 0 1000 0
31. Manufacturing of school chalks 500 0 750 0 1000 0
32. Waved cloths by machine 500 0 750 0 1000 0
33. Used gunny bags selling after cleaning 500 0 750 0 1000 0
34. Goats and pigs over ten keeping in the shed 500 0 750 0 1000 0
35. Business of science lab instruments and chemicals 500 0 750 0 1000 0
36. Conducting a business of shop of betel, arecanut, tobacco 500 0 750 0 1000 0
Dangerous and Hazardous  :
01. Conducting of laundry - dry cleaning or dying 500 0 750 0 1000 0
02. Conducting the place of electro plating 500 0 750 0 1000 0
03. Conducting the selling fire works or crackers 500 0 750 0 1000 0
04. Charging batteries or repair 500 0 750 0 1000 0
05. Conducting the place of welding 500 0 750 0 1000 0
06. Conducting motor vehicles service and repairing workshop 500 0 750 0 1000 0
07. Conducting a molding yard 500 0 750 0 1000 0
08. Conducting storage petrol, diesel or other mineral oil 500 0 750 0 1000 0
09. Producing or storage agro chemical products 500 0 750 0 1000 0
10. Servicing or repairing, air conditioner, refrigerator, deep freezer 500 0 750 0 1000 0
11. Producing electric equipments 500 0 750 0 1000 0
12. Conducting electricity industries or repairing radio or producing 500 0 750 0 1000 0
radio workshop
13. Producing exercise books 500 0 750 0 1000 0
14. Conducting a workshop -  lathe machine 500 0 750 0 1000 0
15. Industrial of plastic fiber production etc. 500 0 750 0 1000 0
16. Conducting storage of sand 500 0 750 0 1000 0
17. Selling and storing building materials 500 0 750 0 1000 0
18. Manufacturing mushrooms and packeting 500 0 750 0 1000 0
19. Yard of emission test 500 0 750 0 1000 0
20. Industrial of commemoration 500 0 750 0 1000 0
21. Manufacturing school bags 500 0 750 0 1000 0
Column I Column II
Annual value Annual value Annual value
No. Nature of Business up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750 over
Rs.l,500 Rs.l,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 56 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1590
22. Conducting a workshop of watches repairing 500 0 750 0 1000 0
23. Conducting a photo framing workshop 500 0 750 0 1000 0
24. Conducting mobile phone repairing centre 500 0 750 0 1000 0
25. Producing exercise books 500 0 750 0 1000 0
26. Conducting a colour studio 500 0 750 0 1000 0
27. Industrial of comprised preparation of cinnamon, cardamom and etc. 500 0 750 0 1000 0
28. Colouring and printing clothes 500 0 750 0 1000 0
29. Conducting a tinkering workshop 500 0 750 0 1000 0
30. Conducting storage of gas cylinder 500 0 750 0 1000 0
31. Conducting a business of native medicine manufacturing of 500 0 750 0 1000 0
ayurveda medicine, filtering of medicine etc.
32. Business of glass wares and storing glass sheet 500 0 750 0 1000 0
33. Conducting of industrial of plastic fiber related productions 500 0 750 0 1000 0
34. Storage of made tea over 150kg. 500 0 750 0 1000 0
35. Conducting of milk chilling centre 500 0 750 0 1000 0
36. Conducting medical laboratory 500 0 750 0 1000 0
10–807/3
–––––––––––––––
KADUGANNAWA   URBAN   COUNCIL
Industrial Tax - Year 2017
IT is hereby informed that as per Ordinance 255, Chapter 27(3) and by virtue of the powers vested and subject to the
limitations and conditions impose tax by the Urban Council, Kadugannawa, a resolution has been approved by Management
Committee Council paper No. 05(vii), on the 25.08.2017.
It is hereby further informed license tax or other tax in respect of the year 2017, shall be paid to the office of the Urban
Council on or before 31.03.2017 respectively.
D. M. P. K. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Urban Council Kadugannawa.
Office of the Urban Council, Kadugannawa,
05th September, 2016.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby  informed that as per chapter 255, of the Municipal Council and Urban Council Ordinance and by virtue
of the powers vested and subject to (Amendments) of No. 42, 1979 and Municipal Council and Urban Council (Amendment)
Act, No. 20, of 1985 in terms of the Section 165(A) and 165(B) of the Ordinance subject to the limitations and conditions to
impose industrial tax for every and each industrial tax accordingly the annual income of the said ordinance, within the Urban
Council limits of Kadugannawa, in Column No. 1, in the Sub-schedule of the Schedule II, as per the annual assessment for the
year of 2017, shall be paid to the office of the Urban Council on or before 31.03.2017.
Column I Column II
Annual value Annual value Annual value
No. Nature of Business up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750 over
Rs.l,500 Rs.l,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 57 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1591
SCHEDULE No. 02
Column I Column  II
Annual value Annual value Annual value
No. Nature of Factory up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750 over
Rs.l,500 Rs.l,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Conducting motor vehicle spare parts shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Conducting a electric equipments or electronic equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
selling shop
03. Conducting a western dispensary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Conducting ayurveda medical centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Conducting licensed liquor shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Business of bicycle selling shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Conducting shoes and bags trading shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Business of recording bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Selling or hiring video cassette, video CD 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Storage or selling radios and televisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Storage or selling sewing machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Selling computers and computer spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Conducting optical business 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Conducting jewelries selling shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Hiring or repairing loudspeakers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Conducting dental clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Conducting detnal clinic (Denture clinic) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Business of fancy goods and toys 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Business of atapirikara/worship materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Business of textiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Conducting of soft drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Conducting of specialist medical consultation centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Conducting  of registered private post office 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Business of photocopy etc. 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Selling and storing of bathrooms fittings and ceramic productions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Selling of stationeries, school books and news papers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Business of book shops 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Business of eggs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Conducting business of computer printing and screen printings 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
(To advertisement)
30. Business of used clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Business of polythene, plastic and rubber products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Conducting of wedding halls or reception halls 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Conducting of office 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. Conducting of architectural office 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. Conducting business place of automobile batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Conducting of cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Business of coconuts and storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
38. Business of provisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Business of spice and packing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Conducting of typing, computer typesetting and training 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Conducting business of vegetable seeds 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Conducting business of groceries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 58 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1592
44. Conducting business of clay - pots etc. 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. Conducting business of ceramics items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. Business place of selling furniture and timber products and storing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Conducting business of funeral undertakers and hiring of 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
functional goods
48. Conducting of cinema hall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Business of tailoring 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Conducting business of pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Conducting business of ayurveda medicines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Business of made tea 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Conducting business of sporting/race clubs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Business of water pumps and other related materials or storing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55. Business of cosmetics 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56. Conducting place of astrology affairs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57. Conducting business of collecting spices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
58. Conducting a business of private nurseries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
59. Conducting business of coconut wood - storing and selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. Business of sanitary items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
61. Business of aquarium 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
62. Conducting of business of flowers and nursery of flower plants 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63. Conducting business of plastic furniture and storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
64. Business of household, furniture and storing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
65. Business of government approved lottery tickets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66. Conducting office business of computer related works 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
67. Conducting business of polishing furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68. Conducting  of business communication - telephone service, fax 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
service and internet facilities
69. Repairing of mobile phones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70. Storing of asbestos sheets and asbestos related products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
71. Business of ice-cream, yoghurt and other frozen food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
72. Conducting of business soft drinks and sweets items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
73. Conducting business of brass ware goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
74. Conducting business exhibitions and business stalls in between for a day Rs. 300, 1,000,
In addition to every days Rs. 200
10-807/4
–––––––––––––––
KADUGANNAWA   URBAN   COUNCIL
Business Tax - Year  2017
IT is hereby inform that as per the Urban Council Ordinance 255, Chapter 27(3) and by virtue of the powers vested and subject
to the limitations and conditions to impose tax by the Urban Council, Kadugannawa, a resolution has been approved by
Management Committee Council paper No. 05(vii), on the 25.08.2016.
Column I Column  II
Annual value Annual value Annual value
No. Nature of Factory up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750 over
Rs.l,500 Rs.l,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 59 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1593
It is hereby further informed letter license tax or other tax
in respect of the year 2017, shall be paid to the office of the
Urban Council on or before 31.03.2017 respectively.
D. M. P. K. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Urban Council Kadugannawa.
Office of the Urban Council Kadugannawa,
05th September, 2016.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby  informed that as per chapter 255, of the
Municipal Council and Urban Council Ordinance and by
virtue of the powers vested and subject to (Amendments) of
No. 42, 1979 and Municipal Council and Urban Council
(Amendment) Act, No. 20, of 1985 in terms of the Sections
165(A) and 165(B) of the Ordinance subject to the limitations
of and tax to be paid, if not necessary to be conducted the
business, in all the persons, any subjects and conditions to
impose industrial tax of the said ordinance, within the Urban
Council limits of Kadugannawa, in Column No. 01, in the
Sub-schedule of the Schedule 02, as per the annual
assessment for the year of 2017, shall be paid to the office of
the Urban Council on or before 31.03.2017.
S
CHEDULE - 03
The below mentioned taxes will not be exceed of the
previous tax and taxes imposed accordingly the previous
year, as below :
Column I Column II
The tax received previous year subject Payable Tax
to the present taxes for business Rs. cts.
01. If not exceed Rs. 6,000 No
02. Exceeded Rs. 6,000 but not exceeded 90 0
Rs. 12,000
03. Exceeded Rs. 12,000 but not exceeded 180 0
Rs. 18,750
04. Exceeded Rs. 18,750 but not exceeded 360 0
Rs. 75,000
05. Exceeded Rs. 75,000 but not exceeded 1,200 0
Rs. 150,000
06. Exceeded Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
The Business Tax subject to above
1. Auctioneers
2. Brokers
3. Insurance Company
4. Money lenders and pown brokers
5. Contractors
6. Foreign Employment agency
7. Sporting clubs and agency
8. Wholesale business of cigarettes
9. Private Nursing Homes
10. Selling telephone/communication
11. International School
12. Imports of motor vehicles or motor vehicles spare parts
13. Conducting multi business (in one place having different
business)
14. Public telephone booths or telephone towers
15. Sale of Motor Vehicles
16. Business Agent
17. Business of suppliers
18. Conducting a industrial
19. Hiring heavy vehicles
20. Conducting private tuition classes
21. Driver learners
Conducting office of tax advisor, auditors, surveyor,
architecture.
10–807/5
––––––––––––––––––
KADUGANNAWA   URBAN   COUNCIL
Assessment Tax Impose Year - 2017
IT is hereby notice by virtue of powers vested in terms of
Urban Council's Ordinance, Chapter 255, Sub-section 27(3) a
resolution has been passed by the Management Committee
of Urban Council, Kadugannawa, has been approved under
the Council Paper No. 05(vii), year 2017, held on 25.08.2016 to
levy charges, for the issuance of the charges as described
below.
The respective charges will be effective from 31t March,
2017 30th June, 30th September and 31st December ending of
every quarter - by 04 quarter, the assessment tax should be
paid to the office of the Urban Council, respectively.
The 10% rebate will be provided for the full payment of
the taxes of 2017, on or before 31.01.2017 and 05% rebate will
be provided full payment of the 01st quarter.
D. M. P. K. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Urban Council Kadugannawa.
Office of the Urban Council Kadugannawa,
05th September, 2016.

<!-- page 60 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1594
RESOLUTION
It is hereby accepted the assessment tax which is impose
the year of 2016 to apply for the year of 2017 as it is , for the
residential building of the lands and the residence situated
within the limits of Urban Council, Kadugannawa, by virtue
of powers vested in terms of Urban Council Ordinance,
Chapter 255 and Chapter 238(1) Sub-schedule.
As per virtue of powers vested in terms of Urban Council
Ordinance, Chapter 160 of the above annual charges.
vitz,
(a) All accommodating places, tax (08%),
(b) All business places, tax (10%),
(c) All paddy fields, tax (15%),
(d) For bare lands, tax (15%)
And further imposing tax for the year of 2017, by resolution
made for under the Urban Council Ordinance 170 read with
Urban Council Ordinance 252, Chapter (02), of the Sub-
schedule (C) of the provisions the assessment tax shall be pay
in order to 31st March 2017, 30th June 2017, 30th September
2017 and 31st December 2017 for the all the accommodating
places respectively, failing to pay 04 quarter default a charges
will be impose (15%) and (20%) of charges will be impose as a
warrant charges by the Urban Council, Kadugannawa.
10–807/2
–––––––––––––––––––––
KADUGANNAWA  URBAN  COUNCIL
Butcher Ordinance
IT is hereby inform that the application received to conduct
beef stalls since 01.01.2017 -31.12.2017 the below mentioned
places. If any objections by any one and in what reason
submitting against of issuing the license and the objection
can be made within 14 days since the Gazette publication,
with two copies as per the Act, No. 7 of Butcher Ordinance.
D. M. P. K. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Urban Council Kadugannawa.
Office of the Urban Council Kadugannawa,
05th September, 2016.
SCHEDULE
Applicant's Place of Beef Stall Nature of
Name Business
M. F. M. Mansoor No. 614, Ilukwatte Selling of beef
Kadugannawa
M. H. Riyas No. 625/A, Ilukwatte Selling of beef
Mohamed Kadugannawa
10–807/6
–––––––––––––––––––––
KADUGANNAWA  URBAN  COUNCIL
Other Payments for the Y ear of 2017
IT is hereby informed that as per chapter of 255 of the Urban
Council Ordinance, Section 27(3), Sub-division and by virtue
of powers vested and subject to the Management Committee
resolution held on 25.08.2016, Council Paper 5(vii) 2017 to lay
charges, for the issuance of the charges as described below.
D. M. P. K. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Urban Council Kadugannawa.
Office of the Urban Council Kadugannawa,
05th September, 2016.
PROPOSAL
It is hereby informed that the license charges or other
taxes for services in respect of the year 2017, shall be paid to
the office of the Urban Council, Kadugannawa.
Advertisement Charges :
01. Advertising charges (For business promotion
programmes)
One day Rs. 1,000 0
Half day Rs. 500 0
02. Notice Board
01 sq. feet Rs. 100 0
03. Advertsing Banners - Duration
03 days or less than that 01 sq. feet each Rs. 25 0
03 days to 07 days 01 sq. feet each Rs. 35 0
07 days to 14 days 01 sq. feet each Rs. 45 0
14 days to 30 days 01 sq. feet each Rs. 50 0
Maxium advertising limit only 30 days

<!-- page 61 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'21
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2016
1595
04. Charges for Cremation
Within the Urban Limits Rs. 4,000  0
Out of Urban Limits Rs. 5,000  0
05. Charges for Burial
Within the Urban limits Rs. 1,000  0
Out of Urban limits Rs. 1,500  0
By order of Courts Rs. 1,500  0
06. Rental for playground
Business purposes - 01 day Rs. 4,000  0
Business purpose - with temporary Rs. 5,000  0
  shed - 01 day
Non-Business affairs Rs. 1,500  0
07. Charges for rental of Urban Council Hall
Wedding ceremony - 24 hours Rs. 5,000  0
General functions and other Rs. 3,000  0
programmes - 01 day
Half a day Rs. 1,500  0
08. Endangering trees
Charges for forms Rs. 200  0
09. Bicycles
Application Rs. 10  0
License Rs. 10  0
10. Library
Within Living out of Urban
Urban Council limits, but
limits students are studying
out of the Urban
Council Limits
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Membership charges 100  0 200  0
01 year
Application Form (For 10  0 20  0
01 year)
Delay charges for 01 book 2  0 2  0
01 day)
11. Hiring charges for chairs
Each chair Rs. 5  0
12. Flag posts
01 Post - 01 day (Except Government Rs. 25  0
Institution)
13. Auction Charges 1%
14. Registration of Suppliers
01 subject Rs.  500 0
In addition to each Rs. 250 0
15. Certificates of Street line and non-vesting
Application Rs. 100 0
Streetline Certificate Rs. 300 0
Non-Vesting Certificate Rs. 300 0
16. Land Sub Division
Application form Rs. 300 0
17. Building application Form Rs. 500 0
18. Conformity certificate Form Rs. 100 0
Charges for Conformity Certificate Rs. 3,000 0
19. Extenstion of construction period
01 year extenstion Rs. 250 0
20. Changing name in the Register of
Assessment Tax
Application Form Rs. 100 0
Charges for Registration Rs. 300 0
21. All Agreements Forms Rs. 500 0
All tender application - copy and Rs. 500 0
tender documents
22. Environmental License
Charges for application Rs. 250 0
Renovation charges Rs. 100 0
23. Hiring Heavy Vehicles and equipments from Council  :
01. Bakho Loader Machine
(i) For 01 hour operation Rs. 2,500 0
(ii) Operator and Assistant charges Rs. 1,000 0
(iii) In addition to public holidays Rs. 200 0
extra payments to be pay for 01 hour
02. Thrashing - Roads by 08 tons - Roller
(i) By Machine - 01 hour Rs. 2,000 0
(ii) Operator and Assistant charges Rs. 500 0
(iii) In addition on public holidays - Rs. 200 0
service
24. Removal of garbage
Garbage per 01 kg. cents 0 50
10–807/1
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.