

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2271$09 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 15 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2022'03'15
No.  2271/09  -   tuesdAy,   mArch  15,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-   PG 5784 — 07  (03/2022)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
RULES  APPLICABLE  TO  INVESTMENT  MANAGERS
the securItIes ANd eXchANGe cOmmIssION OF srI LANKA Act, No. 19 OF 2021 
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
Viraj Dayaratne PC
 c hairman
 securities and exchange commission of  sri Lanka.
colombo,
15th march, 2022.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
2A
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to Investment managers.
General interpretation 1.    The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of  2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act:
“client” means a person who has entered into an agreement with an Investment 
manager to manage his investments;
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Investment Manager” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the 
sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall include 
alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and persons having 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of a 
company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Liquid capital” means unencumbered cash or investments which can be readily 
converted to cash such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with maturity of 
less than three (3) months, commercial papers which are endorsed or guaranteed by a 
licensed commercial bank or licensed specialized bank with a term to maturity of less 
than three (3) months and government issued securities with a term to maturity of one 
(1) year or less or any other form of instruments as determined by the commission;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 
of 2021;
“shareholders’ Funds” means the amount of equity of the entity, which belongs to the 
shareholders of the entity.
Applicability 2. the rules set out herein shall apply to Investment managers licensed  
under the sec Act.
3.    every Investment manager shall comply with: 
(a)     the rules set out herein and any amendments made thereto; 
(b)     provisions of the sec Act;
(c)     directives issued from time to time by the commission;and
(d)   rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of 
these rules.
Requirement for a 
licence
4.    No entity shall engage in the function of an Investment Manager without having first 
obtained a licence from the commission.
5.    the period of validity of a licence granted to an Investment manager shall be twelve 
(12) months. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
3A
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
6.    the grant of a licence to an Investment manager shall be a two (2) stage process. An 
applicant may in the first instance apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying the 
requirements as set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval 
may thereafter apply for final approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out in 
(b) hereof:
(a)    In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the commission:
i.        a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on the 
website of the commission along with the supporting documents mentioned 
therein;
ii.   documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of an 
Investment manager;
iii.    a declaration by the applicant as per the specimen affidavit in Schedule I of 
these rules;  
iv.     a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule VI of these 
rules;
v.   documentation in support of measures taken to acquire an information 
processing system as stated in rule 22 of these rules;
vi.     documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human resources 
to effectively discharge the obligations in keeping with the identified 
organizational structure of the applicant; and
vii.  the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval 
specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time to time.
(b)   No later than six (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, 
the applicant shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following 
documents as proof thereof in order to obtain the licence:
(i)     confirmation from the auditor that the applicant has met the requirements as 
spelt out in rule 18 (a) and (b) of these rules;
(ii)    declarations by Key management Persons and persons making investment 
decisions on behalf of clients relating to their fitness and propriety to hold 
such office in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management 
Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of these rules. 
Such declaration shall be in the form of an affidavit prepared in accordance 
with the specimen provided in schedule III of these rules;
(iii)   a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Investment 
Manager confirming the implementation of an information processing system 
as stated in rule 22 of these rules;
(iv)     a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Investment 
Manager confirming the recruitment of adequate human resources along with 
their names and designations;
(v)   the licence fee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from 
time to time.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
4A
7.    upon obtaining the licence to function as an Investment manager under the sec Act, 
the persons dealing with clients shall follow continuous Professional development 
(cPd) programmes conducted by the commission annually on rules and other 
applicable regulations.
8.    It shall be the duty of the Investment manager to notify the commission and obtain its 
prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application to be licensed 
as an Investment manager.
9.  the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as an Investment 
manager on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Renewal of a licence 10.  An Investment manager shall submit an application for renewal three (3) months prior  
to the expiry of the licence along with the renewal fee.
11.  An application for renewal shall be in the format provided by the commission on its 
website along with the supporting documents mentioned therein.
12.  Any Investment manager who fails to submit an application for renewal within the 
aforesaid time period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time. 
13.  In the event the licence of an Investment manager expires as a result of an Investment 
manager failing to take steps to renew it, the provisions contained in rule 73 of these 
rules with regard to cessation of operations shall apply. 
14.  An Investment manager which has neither taken steps to cease its business operations 
as an Investment manager nor taken steps to renew its licence in terms of these rules 
shall not be entitled to the grant of a new licence as an Investment manager.
        This disqualification shall also apply to a company whose board of directors comprises 
of any individual(s) who functioned as a director(s) of the company which has failed 
to have its licence renewed as aforesaid.
15.  It shall be the duty of the Investment manager to notify the commission and obtain its 
prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application for the renewal 
of a licence as an Investment manager.
16. the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as an 
Investment manager on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec 
Act.
Licensing fee 17.  An Investment manager shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of  regulations 
made by the minister from time to time. 
Minimum financial 
requirements and 
submission of reports
18.  An Investment manager shall:
(a) at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ Funds as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(b)  at all times maintain minimum Liquid capital as determined by the commission 
from time to time;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
5A
(c)  inform the commission immediately if  shareholders’ Funds and/or Liquid capital 
falls below the requirement as stipulated in rule 18 (a) and (b) above; and
(d) not carry on its activities as an Investment Manager if the minimum financial 
requirements as determined by the commission are not met, unless the prior 
written approval of the commission is obtained.
19. An Investment manager shall provide the information as set out below to the 
commission:
(a) financial statements prepared quarterly in conformity with the Sri Lanka  
Accounting Standards signed by a director and the chief executive officer before 
the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; and
(b)  a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance with 
the sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the sri Lanka 
Auditing standards within a period of four (4) months from the close of each 
financial year.
20.  An Investment manager shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s 
report or any additional period of time permitted by the commission, take steps to 
rectify the deficiencies if any, made out in the auditor’s report, in so far as they relate 
to the activity of managing investments.
Change in shareholding 
of an Investment 
Manager
21.   A change in the shareholding of twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total 
shareholding of an Investment manager shall be made only with prior written consent 
of the commission.
Infrastructure and 
related requirements
22.    An Investment manager shall at all times:
(a)     maintain proper systems including information technology processes and human 
resources suitable and adequate to support the proper conduct of its business as 
an Investment manager;
(b)   ensure that an effective system of functional barriers is in place to prevent the 
flow of information that may be confidential and/or price sensitive between the 
functions; and
(c)    have appropriate information recording and retrieval systems and maintain such 
information for inspection by the commission.
23.   the Investment manager shall not be entitled to outsource any part of its work, which 
has a direct bearing on the function of managing investments. 
24.   the Investment manager shall enter into a written agreement with the party to whom 
any work is outsourced. such agreement shall contain an undertaking from the party 
to whom any work is outsourced that they shall comply with the laws, rules and 
directives that the Investment manager is bound to follow.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
6A
Qualifications and 
experience of persons 
making investment 
decisions on behalf of 
clients
25.  Any person who makes investment decisions on behalf of clients shall possess the 
qualifications set out in subsection (a) and the experience set out in subsection (b) or 
possess the experience set out in subsection (c):
(a) (i)      a degree from a recognized university in the fields of Finance, Accountancy, 
Business Administration, commerce or economics;
(ii)     member/Associate of a professional body of Accountants recognized by the 
International Federation of Accountants;
(iii)    chartered Financial Analyst;
(iv)     Associate of the chartered Institute of Bankers;
(v)      Associate of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka;
(vi)     Associate of the chartered Institute for securities and Investments;
(vii)  any other professional and/or academic qualification acceptable to the 
commission; 
and
(b)    experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of two (2) 
years. the commission shall consider the relevance, nature, the scope and 
experience in determining such adequacy;
or
(c)    experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of seven (7) 
years. the commission shall consider relevance, nature, scope and experience 
gained in determining its adequacy.  
Requirement for a 
minimum number 
of persons making 
investment decisions on 
behalf of Clients
26.  the Investment manager shall ensure that a minimum of two (2) persons possessing 
qualifications and/or experience set out in these Rules are employed to make 
investment decisions on behalf of clients.
27.  Persons making investment decisions on behalf of clients of an Investment manager 
shall not deal with clients of any other licensed/ approved function of the entity unless 
prior written approval of the commission is obtained.
 
28. the commission may direct the Investment manager to vary the number of such 
qualified persons on account of the volume of business proposed to be undertaken or 
currently undertaken by such Investment manager.
Commission approval 
to engage in other 
businesses
29.  An Investment manager shall disclose to the commission all other business activities 
it is engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the commission in 
writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after obtaining a licence from 
the commission.
30. An Investment manager shall not engage in any other business which in the view 
of the Commission creates a conflict of interest unless prior written approval of the 
commission is obtained.
31. In the conduct of any such other business activity, the Investment manager shall  
ensure that proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different 
functions pertaining to such businesses. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
7A
Written agreement and 
material information
32.  An Investment manager shall execute a written agreement with each client prior to 
carrying out any business for and on behalf of a client containing all the terms and 
conditions agreed upon by and between itself and the client. Without prejudice to the 
generality of this clause it shall inter alia include provisions set out in schedule V of 
these rules.
33.  An Investment manager shall ensure that all investment decisions, recommendations 
and actions are consistent with the terms of the written agreement entered into between 
the Investment manager and the client.
34. An Investment manager shall provide clients and potential clients with an 
“Investment management services Guide” which shall include accurate and complete 
information with regard to all investments. such Guide shall include inter alia the 
provisions set out in schedule IV of these rules. An Investment manager shall not 
make misleading or deceptive statements to clients and prospective clients in the 
Investment management services Guide.
35.  An Investment manager shall ascertain in relation to each client, matters relating to 
his identity, his financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives 
relevant to the services to be provided prior to executing a written agreement between 
the Investment manager and the client. 
36.   An Investment manager shall ensure that the agreement entered into is in a language 
mutually agreed upon by the parties. the subsequent amendments to the agreement, if 
any, shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties and be in writing.
Fund management 37.  An Investment manager shall at all times act in compliance with the duty that has been 
cast under section 112 of the sec Act, in making recommendations to clients. 
38.  An Investment manager and all persons making investment decisions on behalf of 
clients of the Investment manager shall:
(a)   ensure that transactions carried out on behalf of a client are in accordance with 
the objectives, investment strategy, investment parameters, risk profile and other 
provisions stated in the Investment Policy statement. If any amendment is to 
be made to the Investment Policy statement, such amendment shall be done in 
consultation and in agreement with the client;
(b)  establish, maintain and implement policies and procedures to ensure fair and 
equitable allocation of orders amongst clients;
(c)  not carry out any transaction on behalf of a client with an entity which is a 
connected person on terms which are more favorable to the connected person or 
less favorable to the client; and 
(d)   refrain from intentionally carrying out transactions (cross trades) between its own 
account, staff personal accounts and client accounts.
39.  When advising on the merits of an investment, the Investment manager and all persons 
making investment decisions on behalf of clients of the Investment manager shall 
ensure the suitability of the information or the advice to be provided to the client 
and shall disclose the financial risks associated with the securities that are being 
recommended to the client.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
8A
40. An Investment manager and all persons making   investment decisions on behalf of  
clients of the Investment manager shall disclose to a client the nature of any 
commission or advantage he receives or is to receive from any third party with regard 
to the investments that are made on behalf of a client. 
41.  An Investment manager and all persons making investment decisions on behalf of 
clients of the Investment manager shall specify the circumstances under which the 
Investment manager may use information relating to the affairs of the client.
42.   In the event of a dispute, the Investment manager and all individuals who deal with 
client portfolios of the Investment manager shall not be held to be liable if he is able 
to establish that the investment decision was made in compliance with rules 37, 38, 
39, 40 and 41 above.
43.  If it is established that an Investment manager and any person making investment 
decisions on behalf of Clients have violated the requirements specified in Rules 37, 
38, 39, 40 and 41 the Investment manager may become liable to compensate any direct 
loss or damage suffered by a client without prejudice to any other remedy available to 
such client or any other enforcement action the commission may consider necessary. 
Trading in Securities 44.  When trading in securities an Investment manager shall act in compliance with the 
provisions contained in section 106 of the sec Act.
Lending and borrowing 
of Securities 
45.  In lending and borrowing of securities an Investment manager shall act in compliance 
with the provisions contained in section 107 of the sec Act. 
Segregation of Client 
funds
46.  An Investment manager shall with regard to the monies and assets of a client at all 
times ensure that it acts in compliance with the provisions contained in section 110 
of the sec Act.
Maintenance of records 47.   An Investment manager shall maintain the following records pertaining to clients:
(a)     all agreements entered into between the Investment manager and the clients;
(b)     all Powers of Attorney granted to the Investment manager by the clients;
(c)    records of all transactions relating to the clients, a record indicating the basis  
on which such investment decisions were taken on behalf of a client, a record to 
support the risk profile of the Clients, investment analysis and other investment-
related communications with clients and prospective clients; and
(d)     a written record of all complaints received from clients and action taken thereon 
by the Investment manager.
48.  All of the above records shall be retained by the Investment manager for a period of 
six (6) years.
49.   All of the above records pertaining to clients whose agreements have been terminated 
shall be retained by the Investment manager for a period of six (6) years from the date 
of such termination.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
9A
50.  the Investment manager shall ensure that client information is updated every year 
based on confirmation received from Clients.
51.  An Investment Manager shall ensure confidentiality of all information relating to  
Clients including such Client’s identity, their beneficial owner and transactions carried 
out for such client, unless and to the extent such disclosure is required by law.
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns 
52.   An Investment manager shall:
(a)   maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as 
will truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and enable 
the preparation of a true and fair Income statement and a statement of Financial 
Position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the 
Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka; 
(b)   maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in 
such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c)   retain such accounting records and other books for a period of not less than six 
(6) years. 
Duty to furnish 
information and  
co-operate with auditors 
appointed by the 
Commission
53.  Where the commission having considered that it is in the  interests of the Investment 
manager or those of its clients,  appoints an independent auditor or such other person 
or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally or in relation to any 
particular matter, it shall be the duty of such Investment manager:
(a)    to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the Investment 
manager relating to its business;
(b)   to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
Investment manager relating to its business;
(c)  to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of  
obtaining; and
(d)    to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any particulars.  
54.  An Investment manager shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or 
books relating to the business of the Investment manager which are in its possession 
or under its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing 
the carrying out of any examination.
Submission of 
information to the 
Commission
55.  An Investment manager shall furnish such returns and provide such information 
relating to its business as the commission may require from time to time.
56. the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be  
submitted within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as 
the commission may specify and the Investment manager shall comply with such 
requirements.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
10A
Compliance manual 57.  An Investment manager shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its 
directors and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance 
procedures and practices as set out in schedule VI of these rules.
Regulatory compliance 
and internal controls
58.  An Investment Manager shall have a compliance officer on a full-time basis who shall:
(a)   be an Attorney-at-Law having a minimum period of five (5) years of experience 
in matters relating to compliance or possesses any other qualification/ experience 
as specified in Rule 25 of these Rules;
(b)  report directly to the board of directors/board sub-committee dealing with risk of 
the Investment manager; and 
(c)  not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer.
59. the Investment manager shall inform the commission on the appointment of such 
compliance officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of appointment. 
In the event of a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, the Investment 
manager shall also give notice to the commission no later than two (2) weeks from 
its effective date.
60.  The compliance officer on behalf of the Investment Manager shall make a quarterly 
compliance report which shall include amongst others the contents specified in 
schedule VII of these rules, approved by the board of directors and signed by a 
director and the chief executive officer confirming compliance with the provisions 
of the sec Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by the 
commission from time to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, No. 06 
of 2006 where applicable and forward same to the commission, before the twentieth 
(20
th) day of the following month.
however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for rectification 
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date on 
which the board of directors were informed as to the steps that have been taken by the 
board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.   
61.   employees of the Investment manager shall obtain the prior written approval from the 
compliance officer in respect of all personal account dealings. Such dealings shall be 
conducted in a manner that will not prejudice the interests of its clients.
62.   An Investment manager shall maintain procedures to ensure that complaints of clients 
relating to the conduct of its business are handled in a timely and effective manner.
63.  An Investment manager shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence 
procedures specified by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Central Bank of 
sri Lanka where applicable from time to time.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
11A
Notification on the 
happening of certain 
events 
64. Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, these 
rules or directives, the Investment manager shall forthwith provide written notice to 
the commission if:
(a)  the Investment manager is in the course of being wound up or otherwise  
dissolved whether within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator 
or an equivalent person has been appointed in respect of any property of the 
Investment manager;
(b)  the Investment manager ceases to carry on the business to which the licence 
relates; 
(c)    the Investment manager has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, 
rules relating to Fitness and Proprietyof a Key management Person of a market 
Intermediary and the Rules specified herein or any other directive issued by the 
commission from time to time; 
(d)    it comes to know that any information or document furnished to the commission 
is false or misleading or there is any change in any information or document 
furnished to the commission;
(e)   any execution against the Investment manager in respect of a judgment debt has 
been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part; 
(f)    the Investment manager whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise or 
scheme of arrangement that is still in operation; 
(g)  any director, or the chief executive officer has been convicted of any offence 
involving fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside of 
sri Lanka; or 
(h)   any director or the chief executive officer of the Investment Manager becomes an 
undischarged bankrupt.  
Advertisements 65.  An Investment manager shall ensure that the content in advertisements promoting its 
services is accurate, complete and is not misleading.
66.  the advertisement shall not guarantee a particular yield and/or return on investment.
67.   Any reference to performance shall only be demonstrated by reference to relevant and 
published benchmarks.
68.  An Investment manager shall submit a copy of all advertisements proposed to be 
published, for the perusal of the commission at least one (1) week prior to its 
publication in the media.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
12A
Portfolio valuation 69.  An Investment manager shall provide its clients with current and accurate portfolio 
valuations on a monthly basis including the following:
(a)   the composition and the value of the portfolio, description of security, number  
of securities, value of each security held in the portfolio, cash balance as at the 
date of the report;
(b)  transactions undertaken during the period of the report including the date of 
transaction and details of purchases and sales;
(c)  beneficial interest received during the relevant period in respect of interests, 
dividends, rights, shares or warrants;
(d)   expenses incurred in managing the portfolio of the client; and
(e)   the performance of each client’s portfolio against appropriate benchmarks.
Cancellation or 
suspension of a licence 
70.  the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to an Investment manager shall be 
governed by the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.
Commencement of 
operations
71.   If the Investment manager fails to commence its business operations no later than six 
(6) months after the issue of the licence, the licence shall cease to be valid.
Licence of an Investment 
Manager deemed to be 
revoked
72.   A licence of an Investment manager shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to 
whom a licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved.
Ceasing of operations 
and surrender of a 
licence
73.  In the event an Investment manager decides to cease its business operations as an 
Investment manager, it shall:
(a)  submit to the commission within seven (7) working days from the date of the 
decision of the board of directors to cease business operations, a certified extract 
of the board resolution together with a status report of its clients as at that date;   
(b)  within fourteen (14) working days of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations, communicate to its clients in writing its decision to 
cease operations as an Investment manager and the procedure to be followed 
by the clients with regard to their intention to transfer to any other Investment 
manager or return of any funds of the client in the custody of the Investment 
Manager setting out specific timelines;
(c)  within twenty one (21) working days of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations publish a notice in all three (3) languages in national 
newspapers announcing its decision to cease business operations as an Investment 
manager and indicating a time period within which its clients are required to 
respond regarding their intention to transfer to any other Investment manager 
or return of any funds of the client in the custody of the Investment manager 
setting out specific time lines and to call upon them to intimate if there are any 
complaints;
(d)   the Investment manager shall keep the commission informed in writing upon the 
completion of the steps (b) and (c) mentioned above.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
13A
74.  the Investment manager shall complete the tasks of transferring their portfolios to 
any other Investment manager/returning of any funds of the client in the custody 
of the Investment manager and resolving any complaints within a period of not 
more than three (3) months from the date of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations (or any extended period permitted by the commission in 
writing) and submit to the commission a declaration from the board of directors of the 
Investment Manager in the form of an affidavit confirming that:
(a)   all of its agreements entered into with clients have been terminated;
(b)   together with the affidavit as stated in Rule 74 hereof, the Investment Manager 
shall return the licence to the commission;
(c)   all outstanding amounts to clients if any have been returned or has transferred 
the portfolio balances of the respective clients to any other Investment manager 
upon obtaining their consent;
(d)   the Investment manager has published the paper notice;
(f)   there are no pending complaints in relation to the operations of the Investment 
manager.
75. the surrender of a licence shall not take effect until the commission informs the 
Investment manager in writing that such surrender has been accepted upon satisfying 
itself that all steps with regard to the cessation of operations have been duly satisfied 
in terms of these rules. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
14A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant entity) 
being duly incorporated and having our registered office/ principal place of business at ….............(address)............….. 
hereby undertake and agree:
1.   to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the commission; 
and
2.  to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced  
from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant entity by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence/capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dishonesty, 
misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements made and information provided 
along with the application for the grant/renewal of a licence are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge.   
Given under the common seal of the entity on this ...............…. day of ................…. in the presence of
……………………….
(Name)  
director
………………………..
(Name)  
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this ....................…. day of ….....................
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:  Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
15A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary unless that individual is a fit 
and proper person to hold such office in such entity as morefully described in 
these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and employees 
dealing with Clients, shall submit an affidavit to the Commission affirming 
that such person is not subject to any of the infirmities morefully described in 
these rules prior to such individual being appointed and at the time the market 
Intermediary seeks a licence or a renewal of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer of a Market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors 
of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office 
of a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately 
notify the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not:
(a)   be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
16A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position 
or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial 
fraud by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
Financial soundness 7.   the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not :
(a)    have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)   have been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)   have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
17A
i.     has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.     has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with 
its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had assets 
sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of 
law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
iii.    has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with 
its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared  bankrupt, had assets 
sequestered,  involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of 
law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall:
(a)    not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)   
 have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
18A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.  
 I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities 
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
19A
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or been 
involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having  
accepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her  
signature at …………. on 
this …………… dayof…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable
 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
20A
SCHEDULE IV
Investment Management Services Guide
1.  the Investment management services Guide shall inter alia include the following:
     corporate Information;
(a)   nature of business operations of the company  
(b)   contact details 
(c)   registered address
(d)   shareholding structure 
(e)   details of board of directors – ( i.e names, engagement capacity: executive, non – executive, independent and 
their profile etc.)
2.  Fund management;
(a)   objective 
(b)   the type of asset class – e.g government securities, corporate debt, equity etc.
(c)   asset allocation - depicting the diversification into many asset classes in terms of liquidity, return, volatility etc.
(d)   valuation method for each asset class
(e)   performance benchmark if any (i.e benchmarks used for each asset under management)
(f)   risk profile of the target portfolio i.e. principal risks under each asset class
3.  details of employees;
(a)   names of persons authorized by the Investment manager and approved by the commission
(b)   contact details of the compliance officer
(c)   experience of employees dealing with clients
4.  Other information
(a)   the amount of all fees to be paid by the client
(b)   dispute resolution mechanisms available to a client
(c)   details of periodic reporting to be made to the client
(d)   informing the clients on the requirement to update client information (e.g. bi-annually); and 
(e)   such other information which could be reasonably construed as having a bearing on functions carried out by an 
Investment manager.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
21A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Content of the Written Agreement between the Investment Manager and the Client
the written contract between the Investment manager and the clients shall interalia include the following;
1. Parties to the agreement
2. composition of the agreement – (valid period of the agreement, etc.)
3. Appointment as Investment manager – client’s consent given to the appointment of the Investment manager
4. Investment objective – 
 detailed objectives are attached in the Investment Policy statement.
 Investment Policy statement contains;
(a) objectives (e.g. investment horizon, risk profile, etc.)
(b) responsibilities of the Investment manager in terms of investment instruments
(c) portfolio selection guidelines (e.g. asset classes and investment parameters, portfolio composition, etc.)
(d) frequency of revising the portfolio
(e) performance monitoring (benchmarks, applicable fees on performance)
5. Caution to Client (acknowledgement of risks inherent to capital market, agreement to the fluctuations to the 
performance and profitability of the portfolio)
6. Authorisation granted by the client (authority to the Investment manager to carry out investments without prior 
approval of the client, any rights given to authorised representative of the client)
       * special Power of Attorney should also be obtained
7. Warranties by the client (e.g. authenticity of the information provided by the client)
8. Valuations and reports (types of reports provided and frequency, Income distribution policy)
9. Notice of limitations and risks (risks pertaining to portfolio management and types of investments, conflict of 
interest, impact of government policies, sec regulations, etc.)
10. Payment of fees, taxes and levies
11. the maximum leverage level
12. Responsibility of the Investment Manager (fair and arm’s length transactions, conflict of interest, breach of 
agreement, acts of employees that cause adverse impact to the clients)
13. Notices and instructions (e.g. notices given to clients and the mode of communication etc.)
14. Confidentiality (confidentiality in relation to the content of the agreement, confidentiality of the information 
provided by the client)
15. complaints and dispute resolution

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
22A
SCHEDULE VI
Minimum Contents of a Compliance Manual
1. Conflict of Interests:
(a) an effective internal control framework to prevent abuse or detect inappropriate investment practices or conflicts 
of interest between proprietary transactions, employees’ transactions and clients’ transactions; 
 Provided that, in the event such conflict cannot be avoided there shall be full disclosure thereof to its Clients 
and the Investment manager shall obtain consent of the client in writing prior to carrying out the material 
transaction;
(b) procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities that give 
rise to a risk of a conflict of interest;
(c)  procedures to ensure that key duties and functions of the front office and back office are clearly segregated to 
avoid any conflicts of interest;
(d) procedures for the prevention or limitation of any person from exercising inappropriate influence over the 
manner in which a relevant person carries out services or activities; 
(e) a mechanism to monitor and identify non-compliance with the conflicts of interest policy and steps to address 
such non-compliance in an appropriate and in a timely manner;
(f) procedures to minimize and manage any conflicts of interest that may arise in carrying out a combination of 
regulated activities.
2. corporate Governance:
(a) good business practices and just and fair principles in the conduct of its business;
(b) compliance requirements contained in any code or best practices introduced by the commission in respect of 
Investment managers;
(c) an effective complaint handling process.
3. risk management:
(a) sound risk management policies and processes;
(b) explanations on the risks applicable to securities investments.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
23A
SCHEDULE VII
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1. Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a) securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b) rules issued by the commission;
(c) rules of an exchange; and
(d) rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2. If not :
(a)  give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b) action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c) the outcome. 
3. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
 If so:
(a) the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b) outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/1

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
24A
RULES   APPLICABLE TO CREDIT RATING   AGENCIES
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI  LANKA  ACT, NO. 19 OF 2021 
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021. 
 Viraj Dayaratne PC
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of  
 sri Lanka.
colombo,
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to credit rating Agencies.
General interpretation 1. The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the 
same meaning assigned to it in the said Act:
‘‘client” means the entity to which a rating has been assigned/sought or the entity 
whose securities have been assigned/sought an assignment of a rating;
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“connected Party” means the parent, subsidiary or an associate company of the 
credit rating Agency;
“Credit Rating Agency”shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall 
include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and 
persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling 
the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Liquid capital” means unencumbered cash or investments which can be readily 
converted to cash such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with 
maturity of less than three (3) months, commercial papers which are endorsed 
or guaranteed by a licensed commercial bank or licensed specialized bank with a 
term to maturity of less than three (3) months and government issued securities 
with a term to maturity of one (1) year or less or any other form of instruments as 
determined by the commission;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021;
“shareholders’ Funds” means the amount of equity of the entity, which belongs 
to the shareholders of the entity.
 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
25A
Applicability 2. the rules set out herein shall apply to credit rating Agencies licensed under the 
sec Act.
3. every credit rating Agency shall comply with:
(a) the rules set out herein and any amendments made thereto;
(b) provisions of the sec Act;
(c) directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d) rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of 
these rules.
Requirement for a licence 4.
 No entity shall engage in the function of a credit rating Agency without having 
first obtained a licence from the Commission.
5. the period of validity of a licence granted to a credit rating Agency shall be 
twelve (12) months. 
Procedure to obtain a licence 6.
 the grant of a licence to a credit rating Agency shall be a two (2) stage process. 
An applicant may in the first instance apply for in-principle approval upon 
satisfying the requirements as set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-
principle approval may thereafter apply for final approval upon satisfying the 
requirements as set out in (b) hereof:
(a)
 In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the 
commission:
(i)
 a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided 
on the website of the commission along with the supporting documents 
mentioned therein;
(ii)
 documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of a 
credit rating Agency;
(iii)
 documents setting out details of the promoter as stated in rules 80, 81, 
82 and 83  of  these rules; 
(iv) a declaration by the applicant as per the specimen in schedule I of 
these rules;  
(v) a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of 
these rules;
(vi)
 documentation in support of measures taken to acquire an information 
processing system as stated in rules 22 and 23 of these rules;

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
26A
(vii) documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human 
resources to effectively discharge the obligations in keeping with the 
identified organizational structure of the applicant; and
(viii)
 the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval 
specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time to 
time.
(b)
 No later than six (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, 
the applicant shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following 
documents as proof thereof in order to obtain the licence:
(i)
 confirmation from the auditor that the applicant has met the requirements 
as spelt out in rule 17 (a) and (b) of these rules;
(ii)
 declarations by Key management Personsand rating analysts relating to 
their fitness and propriety to hold such office in terms of the Fitness and 
Propriety of a Key management Person of a market Intermediary as 
stipulated in schedule II of these rules. such declaration shall be in the 
form of an affidavit prepared in accordance with the specimen provided 
in schedule III of these rules;
(iii)
 a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the 
Credit Rating Agency confirming the implementation of an information 
processing system as stated in rule 22 and 23 of these rules;
(iv)
 confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the 
Credit Rating Agency confirming the recruitment of adequate human 
resources along with their names and designations; and
(v)
 the licencefee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister 
from time to time.
7.
 It shall be the duty of the credit rating Agency to notify the commission and 
obtain its prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application to 
be licensed as a credit rating Agency.
8.
 the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as a credit rating 
Agency on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Renewal of a licence 9.
 A credit rating Agency shall submit an application for renewal three (3) months 
prior to the expiry of the licence along with the renewal fee. 
10.
 An application for renewal shall be in the format provided by the commission on 
its website along with the supporting documents mentioned therein.
11.
 Any credit rating Agency who fails to submit an application for renewal within 
the aforesaid time period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of 
regulations made by the minister from time to time.
12.
 In the event the licence of a credit rating Agency expires as a result of a credit 
rating Agency failing to take steps to renew it, the provisions contained in rule 
88 of these rules with regard to cessation of operations shall apply. 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
27A
 A credit rating Agency which has neither taken steps to cease its business 
operations as a credit rating Agency nor taken steps to renew its licence in terms 
of these rules shall not be entitled to the grant of a new licence as a credit rating 
Agency.
 This disqualification shall also apply to a company whose board of directors 
comprises of any individual(s) who functioned as a director(s) of the company 
which has failed to have its licence renewed as aforesaid.
14.
 It shall be the duty of the credit rating Agency to notify the commission and 
obtain its prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application 
for the renewal of licence as a credit rating Agency.
15.
 the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as 
a credit rating Agency on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of 
the sec Act.
Licensing fee 16.
 A credit rating Agency shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of 
regulations made by the minister from time to time. 
Minimum financial 
requirements and submission 
of reports
17.
 A credit rating Agency shall:
(a) at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ Funds as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(b) at all times, maintain minimum Liquid capital as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(c) inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ Funds and/or Liquid 
capital falls below the requirement as stipulated in rule 17 (a) and (b) above; 
and
(d)
 not carry on its activities as a Credit Rating Agency if the minimum financial 
requirements as determined by the commission are not met, unless the prior 
written approval of the commission is obtained.
18.
 A credit rating Agency shall provide the information as set out below to the 
commission:
(a) financial statements prepared quarterly in conformity with the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards signed by a director and the chief executive officer 
before the twentieth (20
th) day of the following month; and
(b) a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance 
with the sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the 
sri Lanka Auditing standards within a period of four (4) months from the 
close of each financial year.
19.
 All audit and non-audit services carried out by the auditors of the credit rating 
Agency for the agency itself together with the fees and expenses charged should 
be disclosed separately in the relevant audited accounts.
20.
 A credit rating Agency shall, within three (3) months from the date of the 
auditor’s report or any additional period of time permitted by the commission, 
take steps to rectify the deficiencies if any, made out in the auditor’s report, in so 
far as they relate to the activity of credit rating.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
28A
Change in shareholding of a 
Credit Rating Agency
21. A change in the shareholding of twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total 
shareholding of a credit rating Agency shall be made only with prior written 
consent of the commission.
Infrastructure and related 
requirements
22.
 A credit rating Agency shall at all time have in place appropriate policies and 
procedures, including adequate financial and human resources, infrastructure 
and information systems to provide reliable and high-quality rating services and 
maintain its credit rating operations and facilities with adequate security, system 
capacity, contingency arrangements including business continuity plans and 
proper review and oversight mechanisms.
23.
 A credit rating Agency shall have an appropriate information recording and 
retrieval systems and maintain such information for inspection by the commission.
24.
 the credit rating Agency shall not be entitled to outsource any part of its work, 
which has a direct bearing on the function of rating.
25. the credit rating Agency shall enter into a written agreement with the party to 
whom any work is outsourced. such agreement shall contain an undertaking from 
the party to whom any work is outsourced that they shall comply with the laws, 
rules and directives that the credit rating Agency is bound to follow.
Qualifications and experience 
of the rating committee
26.
 every credit rating Agency shall have a professional rating committee comprising 
of a minimum of three (3) persons who possess the qualifications and criteria set 
out in these rules.
27.
 All members of the rating committee and rating analysts involved in assigning 
ratings on behalf of a Credit Rating Agency shall possess the qualifications set 
out in subsection (a) and the experience set out in subsection (b) or possess the 
experience set out in subsection (c):
(a)    (i)
 a degree from a recognized universityin the fields of Finance, Account-
ancy, Business Administration, commerce or economics;
       (ii)
 member/Associate of a professional body of Accountants recognized 
by the International Federation of Accountants;
       (iii)
 chartered Financial Analyst;
       (iv) Associate of the chartered Institute of Bankers;
       (v) Associate of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka;
       (vi) Associate of the Charterd Institute for Securities and Investments ;
       (vii) any other professional and/or academic qualification acceptable to the 
commission ; 
and
(b)
 experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of two (2) 
years. the commission shall consider the relevance, nature, the scope and 
experience in determining such adequacy;
or
(c)
 experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of seven 
(7) years. the commission shal consider relevance, nature, scope and 
experience gained in determining its adequacy.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
29A
28. the credit rating Agency shall not appoint any individual as a member of the 
rating committee who:
(a) has a business development function of the credit rating Agency; or
(b) who initiates or participates in discussions regarding fees or payments with 
any client of a credit rating Agency.
29. At the time of applying for a licence to function as a credit rating Agency, the 
applicant shall give the names of all members who will function as members of 
the rating committee and their current designations and qualifications.
30.
 the credit rating Agency shall promptly inform the commission of any change 
of composition of the rating committee.
31.
 the credit rating Agency shall ensure that its analysts receive adequate and 
periodic training and facilitate the generation of independent, objective and 
credible rating opinions.
Requirement for minimum 
number of persons as rating 
analysts
32.
 the credit rating Agency shall ensure that a minimum of two (2) persons 
possessing qualifications and/or experience set out in these Rules are employed 
to act as rating analysts.
33.
 the commission may direct the credit rating Agency to vary the number of 
such qualified personnel on account of the volume of business proposed to be 
undertaken or currently undertaken by such credit rating Agency.
Commission approval to 
engage in other businesses
34.
 A credit rating Agency shall disclose to the commission all other business 
activities it is engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the 
commission in writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after 
obtaining a licence from the commission.
35.
 A credit rating Agency shall not engage in any other business which in the view 
of the Commission creates a conflict of interest unless prior written approval of 
the commission is obtained.
36.
 In the conduct of any such other business activity, the credit rating Agency 
shall ensure that proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the 
different functions pertaining to such businesses.
Written agreement and 
material information 
37.
 A credit rating Agency shall execute a written agreement prior to carrying out 
any business for and on behalf of a client in its capacity as a credit rating Agency. 
such agreement shall inter alia contain the following terms and conditions:
(a)
 the procedure to be followed in carrying out a rating; 
(b) the fees to be charged by the credit rating Agency;
(c) the rights and liabilities of each party in respect of the rating;
(d) the client’s agreement for a periodic review of the rating by the credit rating 
Agency during the tenure of the rated entity or security or a group of related 
entities or securities;

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
30A
(e) the rated security or the entity shall be updated as and when new and critical 
information becomes available;
(f) the client’s consent to cooperate by providing accurate, adequate and timely 
information with the credit rating Agency to apply relevant criteria to 
determine the ratings of an entity or security or a group of related entities or 
securities. 
38.
 A credit rating Agency shall ensure that the agreement entered into is in a 
language mutually agreed upon by the parties. the subsequent amendments to the 
agreement, if any, shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties and be in writing.
Rating process, criteria, 
transparency and disclosure
39.
 Prior to the commencement of a rating or during such process the credit rating 
Agency shall not promise, assure or guarantee to a client that a particular rating 
will be assigned.
40.
 every credit rating Agency shall publish on its website:
(a) the rating criteria and methodology that it follows in the rating analysis 
in order that ratings are consistent and transparent,using all information 
available to it, and considered relevant by the credit rating Agency;
(b)
 rating symbols and scales that are to be used and their individual meanings;
(c) its definition of “default” taking into consideration the timeliness of payment 
or performance of debt obligations and recovery values expected after a 
default;
(d)
 a list of issues downgraded due to a default;
(e) a historical record of any default during the preceding period of five (5) 
years; and
(f)
 the report of the review panel consequent to an appeal by the clients who are 
dissatisfied with a rating.
41.
 every credit rating Agency shall perform a rigorous and formal periodic review 
of all its methodologies. such methodologies shall be made available to the 
commission for perusal, upon request.
42. the rating reports issued by the credit rating Agency shall contain:
(a) all relevant information including an analysis on corporate governance where 
relevant to key rating drivers and sources of material information;
(b) material data limitations; 
(c)   any assumptions used during an analysis ; and
(d) all material information on the entity or the security that is being rated.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
31A
43. Where relevant, the rating reports shall include disclosure of any benchmark used, 
any sensitivity analyses performed and their results, comparative analyses made 
with other industries or companies and disclosure of any credit enhancements or 
downgrades.
44.
 For purposes of transparency a Credit Rating Agency shall publish sufficient 
information about an entity/security rated, frequency of default and whether a 
rating grade assigned has changed over time.  The definitions and computation 
methods for the default rates stated in the default studies shall also be disclosed.
45.
 except for ratings that are private or ratings that do not entail ongoing surveillance, 
once a rating is assigned and published, the credit rating Agency shall monitor 
on an ongoing basis and update the rating by:
(a)
 regularly reviewing the issuer’s or instrument’s creditworthiness;
(b) initiating a review of the status of the rating upon becoming aware of any 
information that might reasonably be expected to result in a rating action 
consistent with the applicable rating methodology; and 
(c)
 updating on a timely basis the rating, as appropriate, based on the results of 
such review.
46.
 In the event the credit rating Agency decides to discontinue monitoring a credit 
rating assigned to a rated entity or security, it shall either withdraw the credit rating 
or disclose such discontinuation to the public as soon as practicable together with 
the last reviewed date.
47.
 A credit rating Agency shall structure its rating teams and processes to promote 
continuity, consistency and avoid bias in the rating process. 
Maintenance of records 48. A credit rating Agency shall maintain the following records pertaining to clients:
(a) all internal records to support its credit rating opinions;
(b) all particulars relating to Clients at its office which shall include the name and 
registered address and contact numbers of such client, names and addresses 
of their directors as at the date of rating, its issued share capital and the nature 
of business; and
(c)
 a written record of all complaints received from clients and action taken 
thereon by the credit rating Agency.
49.
 All of the above records shall be retained by the credit rating Agency for a 
period of six (6) years.
50. A Credit Rating Agency shall maintain confidentiality of all non-public 
information entrusted to it by clients at all times including such client’s identity 
and transactions carried out for such client unless and to the extent such disclosure 
is required by law, or unless authorised by the client to disclose such information.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
32A
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns 
51. A credit rating Agency shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books 
as will truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and 
enable the preparation of a true and fair Income statement and a statement 
of Financial Position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards 
adopted by the Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka;
(b)
 maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books 
in such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c)
 retain such accounting records and other books for a period of not less than 
six (6) years.
Duty to furnish information 
and co-operate with auditors 
appointed by the Commission
52.
 Where the commission having considered that it is in the  interests of the credit 
rating Agency or those of its clients,  appoints an independent auditor or such 
other person or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally 
or in relation to any particular matter, it shall be the duty of such credit rating 
Agency:
(a)
 to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the credit 
rating Agency relating to its business;
(b) to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by 
the credit rating Agency relating to its business;
(c)
 to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of 
obtaining; and
(d)
 to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or 
independent auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any 
particulars.  
53.
 A credit rating Agency shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property 
or books relating to the business of the credit rating Agency which are in 
its possession or under its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, 
delaying or obstructing the carrying out of any examination.
Submission of information to 
the Commission
54.
 A credit rating Agency shall furnish such returns and provide such information 
relating to its business as the commission may require from time to time.
55. the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be 
submitted within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form 
as the commission may specify and the credit rating Agency shall comply with 
such requirements.
Compliance manual 56.
 A credit rating Agency shall have an internal compliance manual applicable 
to its directors and employees which shall include amongst others adequate 
compliance procedures and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
33A
Regulatory compliance and 
internal controls
57. A Credit Rating Agency shall have a compliance officer on a full-time basis who 
shall:
(a)
 be an Attorney-at-Law having a minimum period of five (5) years of 
experience in matters relating to compliance or possesses any other 
qualification/ experience as specified in Rule 27 of these Rules;
(b)
 report directly to the board of directors/ board sub-committee dealing with 
risk of the credit rating Agency; and
(c)
 not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer.
58.
 the credit rating Agency shall inform the commission on the appointment of 
such compliance officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of 
appointment. In the event of a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, 
the credit rating Agency shall also give notice to the commission no later than 
two (2) weeks from its effective date.
59.
 The compliance officer on behalf of the Credit Rating Agency shall make an annual 
compliance report which shall include amongst others the contents specified in 
schedule V of these rules, approved by the board of directors and signed by a 
director and the chief executive officer confirming compliance with the provisions 
of the sec Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by 
the commission from time to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, 
No. 06 of 2006 where applicable and forward same to the commission before the 
twentieth (20
th) day of the following month.
 however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for 
rectification and inform the Commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) 
days from the date on which the board of directors were informed as to the steps 
that have been taken by the board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.
60.
 employees of the credit rating Agency shall obtain the prior written approval 
from the compliance officer in respect of dealings by them in securities that have 
been rated or are in the process of being rated by the credit rating Agency. such 
dealings shall be conducted in a manner that will not prejudice the interests of its 
clients.
61.
 A credit rating Agency shall provide for a procedure to entertain a request from 
a client for a review of a rating that has been assigned. the credit rating Agency 
shall have provision for the appointment of an independent review panel to handle 
such appeals. the review panel shall consist of a minimum of three (3) persons 
out of which two (2) shall be independent and shall possess the qualifications 
set out in rule 27 hereof and shall be independent from the rating panel that had 
previously been involved in the original rating.
62.
 A credit rating Agency shall maintain procedures to ensure that complaints of 
clients relating to the conduct of its business are handled in a timely and effective 
manner.
63.
 A credit rating Agency shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due 
diligence procedures specified by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the 
central Bank of sri Lanka where applicable from time to time.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
34A
Managing conflicts of interest 64. When a credit rating Agency sends a circular or other written communication 
regarding securities, a credit rating Agency shall disclose certain interests in 
securities as stipulated in section 113 of the sec Act.
65. All members of the rating committee shall give an individual declaration certified 
by an Attorney-at-Law that they will not engage in the process of rating where 
they have the “capacity to influence”.  An employee is deemed to have the 
“capacity to influence” when his/her independence may be impaired and amongst 
others include the circumstances set out below:
(a)
 where he/she owns five per centum (5%) or above of the securities of the 
rated entity or any entity related and/or connected thereto;
(b) where he/she has had employment or other significant business relationship 
with the rated entity within the six (6) months immediately preceding such 
rating;
(c)
 where he/she has an immediate relation (i.e. spouse, child, sibling) who is 
currently employed by the rated entity; and
(d)
 where he/she has any affiliation with the rated entity or any agent of the rated 
entity that could in the particular circumstances be perceived as presenting a 
conflict of interest.
66.
 reporting lines for the credit rating Agency staff and their remuneration 
arrangements should be structured to eliminate or effectively manage actual and 
potential conflict of interest. 
67.
 A credit rating Agency analyst should not be remunerated or evaluated on the 
basis of the amount of revenue that a credit rating Agency derives from clients 
that the analyst rates or with whom the analyst regularly interacts. 
68. No credit rating Agency shall rate a security issued by an entity which is:
(a) a borrower of its promoter other than a commercial Bank regulated by the 
central Bank of sri Lanka; or
(b) a subsidiary of its promoter; or
(c) an associate of its promoter; if
(i)
 the chairman or the directors are common between credit rating 
Agencies and the entity to be rated; and
(ii) the employees are common.
69. A credit rating Agency shall ensure that members of its board of directors shall 
not have privileged access to a Client’s confidential information, unless they are 
part of the rating committee.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
35A
70. the Key management Persons of the credit rating Agency, members of the rating 
committee and rating analysts shall not have any transactions with or interests in 
the companies whose securities are rated by them. 
 Provided however, any transactions entered into in the capacity of a subscriber or 
consumer of a utility company, holder of an account/deposit with a commercial 
bank or a holder of an insurance policy with an insurance company are not 
prohibited provided such transactions are made on terms that are generally 
applicable to all such subscribers, consumers, account holders and policy holders.
71.
 the credit rating Agency shall ensure that none of its Key management Persons, 
rating committee members, rating analysts, employees, their connected Parties 
and parties acting in concert, either directly or indirectly, trade in the securities 
in respect of which the client has sought a rating or the securities of a member 
of a group of companies in instances where the client is a member of a group of 
companies, during the period commencing from the day its services have been 
sought by the client and until the lapse of two (2) days after the rating report has 
been released to the market via an exchange. 
72.
 trading in securities by Key management Personnel, members of the rating 
committee and employees shall not be carried out unless such orders are 
authorized in writing by the compliance officer of the Credit Rating Agency.
 For the purpose of this rule, ‘t rading in securities’ shall mean the buying or 
selling of a security which has been rated by the credit rating Agency or the 
buying or selling of a security where the issuer of such security has been rated by 
the credit rating Agency.      
73.
 A credit rating Agency shall maintain a restricted securities List. Key 
management Personnel, members of the rating committee and employees of 
the credit rating Agency shall not trade in securities which are in the restricted 
securities List. 
74. securities may be deleted from the restricted securities List whenever material 
non-public information are no longer possessed by the credit rating Agency in 
respect of such entities/securities. 
 For the purpose of rules 73 and 74 above, “restricted securities List” shall 
comprise a list of securities in respect of which the credit rating Agency possesses 
material and non-public information in relation to an entity or a security of an 
entity which has been rated or in the process of being rated by the credit rating 
Agency.
75.
 In the event, the rating fees charged for rating an entity or security or rating a 
group of related entities or securities amounts to five per centum (5%) or more of 
the total revenue earned by the credit rating Agency in the preceding year, such 
fact shall be specifically stated in its rating report/s.
76.
 A credit rating Agency shall establish, maintain and implement written policies, 
controls and procedures to ensure that non-public information acquired during the 
rating process is only used for the purpose of such ratings and prevent the misuse 
of non-public information. 

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
36A
Notification on the happening 
of certain events 
77. Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec  Act, 
these rules or directives, the credit rating Agency shall forthwith provide 
written notice to the commission if:
(a)
 the credit rating Agency is in the course of being wound up or otherwise 
dissolved whether within or outside sri Lanka where a receiver, liquidator 
or an equivalent person has been appointed in respect of any property of the 
credit rating Agency;
(b)
 the credit rating Agency ceases to carry on the business to which the licence 
relates; 
(c)
 the credit rating Agency has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec 
Act, rules relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person of 
a Market Intermediary and the Rules specified herein or any other directive 
issued by the commission from time to time; 
(d)
 it comes to know that any information or document furnished to the 
commission is false or misleading or there is any change in any information 
or document furnished to the commission;
(e)
 any execution against the credit rating Agency in respect of a judgment debt 
has been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part;
(f) the credit rating Agency whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered 
into a compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement that is still in operation; 
(g)
 any director, or the chief executive officer have been convicted of any 
offence involving fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within 
or outside of sri Lanka; or 
(h)
 any director, or the chief executive officer of the Credit Rating Agency 
becomes an undischarged bankrupt.  
Advertisements 78.
 A credit rating Agency shall ensure that the content in advertisements promoting 
its services is accurate, complete and is not misleading.
79. A credit rating Agency shall submit a copy of all advertisements proposed to 
be published, for the perusal of the commission at least one (1) week prior to its 
publication in the media.
Promoters of Credit Rating 
Agencies
80.
 the commission shall not consider an application made for the licence of a credit 
rating Agency unless the applicant is promoted by:
(a) a foreign credit rating Agency licensed/registered in the country of its 
incorporation, having at least five (5) years experience in rating entities or 
securities; or
(b) a bank licensed by the central Bank of sri Lanka.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
37A
81. the promoters of the applicant shall collectively hold at least thirty per centum 
(30%) of the total stated capital of the credit rating Agency.
82. If the promoter is a foreign credit rating Agency, such agency shall hold a 
minimum of twenty per centum (20%) of the total stated capital of the credit 
Rating Agency and shall maintain such holding for a minimum period of five (5) 
years after the grant of a licence by the commission.
83.
 If there is a change in the shareholding by the promoter after a period of five (5) 
years, the credit rating Agency shall ensure that any new promoter complies 
with the requirements stated herein and shall replace the promoter or a subsequent 
holder only upon obtaining prior written approval from the commission.
Publishing of ratings 84.
 the credit rating Agency shall publish on its website all ratings issued to the 
client and any changes made thereto within three (3) market days from it being 
made available to such client. 
 however, if any rating is given to a listed entity or security or security intended 
to be issued to the public or an entity that has sought a listing, such rating shall 
mandatorily be published on the website of the credit rating Agency and in 
addition be disclosed to the exchange on which such entity or security is listed or 
is to be listed.
Cancellation or suspension of 
a licence
85.
 the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to a credit rating Agency 
shall be governed by the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.
Commencement of operations 86. If the credit rating Agency fails to commence its business operations no later 
than six (6) months after the issue of the licence, the licence will cease to be valid.
Licence of a Credit Rating 
Agency deemed to be revoked
87.
 A licence of a credit rating Agency shall be deemed to be revoked if the company 
to whom a licence has been assigned is wound up or otherwise dissolved.
Ceasing of operations and 
surrender of a licence
88.
 In the event a credit rating Agency decides to cease its business operations as a 
credit rating Agency, it shall:
(a) submit to the commission within seven (7) working days from the date of 
the decision of the board of directors to cease business operations, a certified 
extract of the board resolution together with  a status report of its clients as 
at that date;   
(b)
 within fourteen (14) working days of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations, communicate to its clients in writing its decision 
to cease operations as a credit rating Agency and request the client to 
engage the services of another registered credit rating Agency to discharge 
the rating obligations;
(c)
 within twenty one (21) working days of the decision of the board of directors 
to cease business operations publish a notice in all three (3) languages in 
national newspapers announcing its decision to cease business operations 
as a credit rating Agency and indicating a time period within which its 
clients are required to respond regarding the request the client to engage 
the services of another licensed credit rating Agency to discharge the rating 
obligations setting out specific timelines and to call upon them to intimate if 
there are any complaints.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
38A
89. the credit rating Agency shall complete the tasks as stated in rule 89 hereof 
and request the client to engage the services of another registered credit rating 
Agency to discharge the rating obligations of the clients and resolving any 
complaints within a period of not more than three (3) months from the date of the 
decision of the board of directors to cease business operations (or any extended 
period permitted by the commission in writing) and submit to the commission a 
declaration from the board of directors of the credit rating Agency in the form of 
an affidavit confirming that:
(a)
 all of its agreements entered into with clients have been terminated;
(b) together with the affidavit as stated in Rule 89 hereof, the Credit Rating 
Agency shall return the licence to the commission;
(c) all outstanding amounts to clients if any have been settled upon obtaining 
their consent;
(d)
 the credit rating Agency has published the paper notice;
(e) there are no pending complaints in relation to the operations of the credit 
rating Agency.
90. the surrender of a licence shall not take effect until the commission informs 
the credit rating Agency in writing that such surrender has been accepted upon 
satisfying itself that all steps with regard to the cessation of operations have been 
duly satisfied in terms of these Rules.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
39A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant entity) 
being duly incorporated and having our registered office/ principal place of business at ….........….(address).....…... 
hereby undertake and agree:
1.
 to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2. to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant entity by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dishonesty, 
misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements made and information provided 
along with the application for the grant/renewal of a licence are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge. 
Given under the common seal of the entity on this ….................... day of …................... in the presence of
……………………….
(Name) 
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this ...................…. day of …......................
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:  Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority. 

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
40A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary unless that individual is a fit 
and proper person to hold such office in such entity as morefully described in 
these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends 
to continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and rating 
analysts, shall submit an affidavit to the Commission affirming that such person 
is not subject to any of the infirmities morefully described in these Rules prior 
to such individual being appointed and at the time a market Intermediary seeks 
a licence or a renewal of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these Rules shall be a requirement and the compliance officer of 
a market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors of any 
matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office of a 
Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately notify the 
commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and rating analysts shall not:
(a)   be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
41A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position 
or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial 
fraud by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
Financial soundness 7.   the Key management Person and rating analysts shall not:
(a)    have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)   have been subject to any judegment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)   have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
42A
i.     has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.     has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with 
its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had assets 
sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of 
law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person and rating analysts shall:
(a)    not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)    have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
43A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.  
 I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities 
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
44A
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or been 
involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having  
accepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her  
signature at …………. on 
this …………… dayof…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable
 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
45A
SCHEDULE IV
Minimum Contents for a Compliance Manual
1.    Conflicts of Interest:
(a)    procedures to ensure that a Credit Rating Agency shall not engage in any activity which could cause a conflict 
of interest in terms of its credit rating functions;
    In any case, a credit rating Agency shall not provide consultancy or advisory services to companies which 
are or could be prospective clients. All ancillary business activities of the credit rating Agency shall be 
prominently disclosed on its website.
(b)   procedures to ensure that a credit rating Agency and its holding company, where applicable, that none of the 
ancillary services including those relating to advisory, origination and structuring of securities are offered to 
any of its rating clients by its employees or by its related companies at all times;
(c)   
 procedures to ensure that the credit rating analysts and the members of the rating committee refrain from 
soliciting or obtaining benefits from its Clients;
(d)   procedures to ensure the credit rating Agency’s independence from the companies it rates and its disclosures 
of actual and potential conflicts of interest to its Client should be clear, complete, timely, concise and specific 
and it shall submit all such information when required to do so by the commission.
2.   
 corporate Governance :
(a)    good business practices and follow just and fair principles in the conduct of its business; and
(b)   compliance requirements contained in any code or best practices introduced by the commission in respect of 
credit rating Agencies.
3.    risk management :
(a)    sound risk management policies and processes.

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
46A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.    Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a)    securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b)   rules issued by the commission;
(c)    rules of an exchange; and
(d)  rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including rules 
and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2.    If not:
(a)    give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b)   action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c)   
 the outcome. 
3.    Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
    If so:
(a)    the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b)   outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/2

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
47A
RULES APPLICABLE TO MARGIN PROVIDERS
the securItIes ANd eXchANGe cOmmIssION OF srI LANKA Act, NO. 19 OF 2021
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
 Viraj Dayaratne PC
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo,
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to margin Providers.
General interpretation 1.    The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the same 
meaning assigned to it in the said Act:
“Central Depository” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the 
sec Act; 
“client” means a person who is desirous of purchasing securities listed on a licensed 
stock exchange and has signed a margin trading agreement with the margin Provider;
“collateral” means cash or marginable securities permitted by the commission for 
margin trading;
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“custodian” means a Bank licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 (as 
amended) providing custodial services;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall include 
alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and persons having 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of a 
company/entity either directly or indirectly;

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
48A
“Liquid capital” means unencumbered cash or investments which can be readily 
converted to cash such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with maturity of 
less than three (3) months, commercial papers which are endorsed or guaranteed by a 
licensed commercial bank or licensed specialized bank with a term to maturity of less 
than three (3) months and government issued securities with a term to maturity of one 
(1) year or less or any other form of instruments as determined by the commission;
“maintenance margin” means the minimum amount of the client’s collateral (cash 
and/or marginable securities) that should be maintained at all times commensurate to 
the margin trading facility;
 
“Margin Provider” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC 
Act;
“marginable securities” means the securities listed in a licenced exchange, where 
such securities shall be valued by adjusting for Value at risk (Var) as provided by the 
licenced exchange to the market value of the securities ;
“margin trading” means purchasing listed securities using credit facilities obtained 
from a licensed margin Provider;
“margin trading Account” means an account where details of all the transactions 
carried out on behalf of a client by a margin Provider are recorded;
“Persons Acting in Concert” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No.19 
of 2021;
“shareholders’ Funds” means the amount of equity of the entity, which belongs to the 
shareholders of the entity;
“Stock Broker” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC 
Act.
Applicability 2.   
 the rules set out herein shall apply to margin Providers licenced under the sec Act. 
3.    every margin Provider shall comply with: 
(a)   the rules set out herein and any amendments thereto; 
(b)   provisions of the sec Act; 
(c)   directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d) rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Intermediary as spelt out in schedule II of 
these rules.  

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
49A
Requirement for a licence 4.    No entity shall engage in the function of a Margin Provider without having first 
obtained a licence from the commission.
5.    the period of validity of a licence granted to a margin Provider shall be twelve (12) 
months. 
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
6.   
 the grant of a licence to a margin Provider shall be a two (2) stage process. An 
applicant may in the first instance apply for ‘in-principle’ approval upon satisfying the 
requirements as set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval 
may thereafter apply for final approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out in 
(b) hereof:
(a)  In order to obtain in-principle approval, an applicant shall submit to the 
commission:
i.   
 a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on the 
website of the commission along with the supporting documents mentioned 
therein;
ii.   
 documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of a margin 
Provider;
iii.   a declaration by the applicant as per the specimen in schedule I of these 
rules;  
iv.   a copy the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of these 
rules;
v.   
 correspondence in support of measures taken to acquire an automated 
information processing system as stated in rules 21 and 22 of these rules;
vi. documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human resources 
to effectively discharge the obligations in keeping with the identified 
organizational structure of the applicant; and
vii. the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval 
specified by way of regulations from time to time.
(b) No later than six (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, 
the applicant shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following 
documents as proof thereof in order to obtain the licence:
i.   
 confirmation from the auditor that the applicant has met the requirements as 
spelt out in rule 16 (a) and (b) of these rules;
ii.    declarations by Key management Persons and employees dealing with clients 
relating to their fitness and propriety to hold such office in terms of the Fitness 
and Propriety of a Key management Person of a market Intermediary as 
contained in schedule II of these rules. such declaration shall be in the form 
of an affidavit prepared in accordance with the specimen provided in Schedule 
III of these rules;
iii.   a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Margin 
Provider confirming the implementation of an automated information 
processing system as stated in rules 21 and 22 of these rules;

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
50A
iv.   a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Margin 
Provider confirming the recruitment of adequate human resources along with 
their names and designations; and
v.   the licence fee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time 
to time.
7.    upon obtaining the licence to function as a margin Provider under the sec Act, every 
officer who is authorizing the Margin Trading facility and persons dealing with Clients 
shall follow continuous Professional development (cPd) programmes conducted by 
the commission annually on rules and other applicable regulations.
8.   It shall be the duty of the margin Provider to notify the commission and obtain its  
prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application to be licensed 
as a margin Provider.
9.   the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as a margin Provider 
on grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Renewal of a licence 10.   As stipulated in section 94 of the sec Act, a margin Provider that wishes to have its 
licence renewed shall submit an application for renewal three (3) months prior to the 
expiry of the licence along with the renewal fee. 
11.   A margin Provider that wishes to have its licence renewed shall submit an application 
for renewal in the format provided by the commission on its website along with the 
supporting documents mentioned therein.
12. Any margin Provider who fails to submit an application for renewal within the 
aforesaid time period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.
13. It shall be the duty of the margin Provider to notify the commission and obtain its  
prior consent of any change in particulars contained in the application for the renewal 
of a licence as a margin Provider.
14.  the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as a 
margin Provider on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Licensing fee  15. A margin Provider shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.
Minimum financial 
requirements and 
submission of reports
16.   A margin Provider shall:
(a)  at all times maintain a minimum   shareholders’ Funds as determined by the  
commission from time to time;
(b) at all times maintain a minimum Liquid capital as determined by the  
commission from time to time;
(c) inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ Funds and/or Liquid  
capital falls below the requirement as stipulated in rule 16 (a) and (b) above; 
and
(d)   not carry on its activities if the minimum financial requirements as determined by  
the commission are not met, unless the prior written approval of the commission 
is obtained.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
51A
17.   A margin Provider shall provide the information as set out below to the commission:
(a)  financial statements prepared monthly in conformity with the Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards signed by a director and the chief executive officer before the twentieth 
(20th) day of the following month;
(b)  a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance with 
the sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the sri Lanka 
Auditing standards within a period of four (4) months from the close of each 
financial year; and
(c)   a copy of the compliance report as stated in rule 53 hereof.
18. Credit balances payable to Clients should be accounted separately in the financial 
statements under current liabilities and should not be netted off against the total 
debtors balance.
19.   A margin Provider shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s report 
or any additional period of time permitted by the commission, take steps to rectify 
the deficiencies if any, made out in the auditor’s report, insofar as they relate to the 
activity of margin providing.
Change in shareholding of 
a Margin Provider
20. A change in the shareholding of twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total 
shareholding of a margin Provider shall be made only with prior written consent of 
the commission.
Infrastructure and related 
requirements
21.   A margin Provider shall be required to maintain an automated information processing 
system which enables the processing, storing and retrieving of information including 
but not limited to the:
(a)   initial facility granted and the extensions thereafter;
(b)   receipts to the account and payments from the account with proper description 
of the receipt or payment;
(c)   interest and other charges charged to the accounts;
(d)   daily opening and closing balances of each account;
(e)   single client exposure, maintenance margin requirement, restricted securities, 
margin calls, default loans etc.;
(f)   daily portfolio valuation reports of the clients; and
(g)   data of clients and stock Brokers.
22.  A margin Provider shall ensure that its information processing systems are capable of 
generating default loan reports, margin exposure reports, analysis of top clients and 
daily status reports indicating the key exposures of clients for the existing clientele.
23. A margin Provider shall ensure that its business applications minimize manual 
intervention in information inputs and outputs where possible and prevent unauthorized 
changes to its databases.

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
52A
24.  Information systems of margin Providers shall be subjected to control reviews by 
them at least once in every two (2) years and the control gaps identified shall be 
rectified following a time plan. The reports generated shall be retained for reference 
for a minimum period of six (6) years.
25.  A margin Provider shall ensure that its hosted servers are subjected to vulnerability 
assessments and penetration tests annually. the issues arising from such tests shall be 
rectified according to a time bound plan and the reports generated shall be retained for 
reference for a minimum period of six (6) years.
26.  A margin Provider shall maintain a duly updated ‘systems and procedures manual’ 
covering the following areas, to ensure compliance with these rules:
(a)   operational procedures pertaining to margin trading;
(b) organizational structure of the margin Provider identifying key functions and  
personnel and their reporting structure;
(c)   operational procedures pertaining to management Information systems (mIs).
Qualifications and 
experience of those dealing 
with Clients
27. All persons dealing with Clients shall possess the qualifications set out in subsection 
(a) and the experience set out in subsection (b) or possess the experience set out in 
subsection (c):
(a)  (i)
     a degree from a recognized university in the fields of Finance Accountancy, 
Business Administration, commerce or economics;
     (ii)    member/Associate of a professional body of Accountant recognized by the 
International Federation of Accountants;
     (iii) chartered Financial Analyst;
     (iv) Associate of the cahrted Institute of Bankers;
      (v) Associate of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka;
     (vi) Associate of the chartered Institute for securities and Investments;
  (vii) any other professional and/or academic qualification acceptable to the 
commission ;
and
(b) experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of two (2) 
years. the commission shall consider the relevance, nature, the scope and 
experience in determining such adequacy.
or
(c) experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of seven (7) 
years. the commission shall consider the relevance, nature, scope and experience 
gained in determining its adequacy.
Requirement for a  
minimum number of 
persons dealing with  
Clients
28.
 A margin Provider shall ensure that a minimum of two (2) persons possessing 
qualifications and/or experience specified in these Rules are assigned to deal with 
clients.
29.
 The Commission may direct the Margin Provider to vary the number of such qualified 
personnel having considered the volume of business proposed to be undertaken or 
currently undertaken by such margin Provider.

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
53A
Commission approval to 
engage in other businesses
30. A margin Provider shall disclose to the commission all other business activities it 
is engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the commission in 
writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after obtaining a licence from 
the commission.
31.
 A margin Provider shall not engage in any other business which in the view of 
the Commission creates a conflict of interest unless prior written approval of the 
commission is obtained.
 Provided however if a Margin Provider is regulated as a licensed or registered financial 
institution by the central Bank of sri Lanka, the above requirements shall not apply.
32.
 In the conduct of any such other business activity, the margin Provider shall ensure 
that proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different functions 
pertaining to such businesses.
Margin Trading agreement 33.
 A margin Provider shall execute a tripartite written agreement containing all the terms 
and conditions agreed by and between the client, margin Provider and the stock 
Broker prior to carrying out any business for and on behalf of a client.such margin 
trading agreement shall contain amongst others the terms as communicated by the 
commission from time to time.
34.
 A margin Provider shall ensure that the agreement entered into is in a language 
mutually agreed upon by the parties. the subsequent amendments to the agreement, if 
any, shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties and be in writing.
Trading in securities 35. In trading in securities, a margin Provider shall act in compliance with the provisions 
contained in section 106 (b) and (d) of the sec Act.
Lending and borrowing of 
securities
36.
 In lending and borrowing of securities a margin Provider shall act in compliance with 
the provisions contained in section 107 of the sec Act.
Segregation of Client funds 37.
 All cash or securities of margin trading clients shall be segregated and separated 
from securities held by the margin Provider on its own account.
38. margin Providers who are not licensed commercial banks shall maintain a separate 
bank account for margin trading transactions with a licensed commercial bank.
39.
 Balances lying to the credit of clients shall not be used for any purpose other than to 
repay the relevant client or to be used for extending further margin trading loans to 
the relevant clients.
40. For the purpose of the protection of client’s assets, a margin Provider shall act in 
compliance with the provisions contained in section 110 of the sec Act.

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
54A
Maintenance of records 41. A margin Provider shall maintain the following records pertaining to clients:
(a) margin trading agreements;
(b) account opening forms;
(c) Client identification documents and Know Your Client information (KYC);
(d) credit appraisals performed to determine the credit worthiness of the client;
(e) disclosures made to the Client in respect of the financial risks involved in 
margin trading activity before commencing such activity with the client;
(f) client statements, portfolio statements, contract notes, instructions given to 
stock Brokers and other information related to securities transactions;
(g)
 correspondence with clients;
(h) records that contain reasons as to why particular securities were force sold to 
recover outstanding margins;
(i)
 a written record of all complaints received from clients and action taken thereon 
by the margin Provider.
42.
 All of the above records shall be retained by the margin Provider for a period of six 
(6) years.
43.
 All of the above records pertaining to clients whose agreements have been terminated 
shall be retained by the margin Provider for a period of six (6) years from the date of 
such termination.
44.
 A Margin Provider shall ensure confidentiality of all information relating to Clients 
including such Client’s identity, their beneficial owner and transactions carried out for 
such client, unless and to the extent such disclosure is required by law.
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns
45.
 A margin Provider shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as 
will truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and enable 
the preparation of a true and fair Income statement and a statement of Financial 
Position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the 
Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka; 
(b)
 maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in 
such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c)
 retain such accounting records and other books for a period of not less than six (6) 
years.

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
55A
Duty to furnish 
information and co-operate 
with auditors appointed by 
the Commission
46.
 Where the commission having considered that it is in the interests of the margin 
Provider or those of its clients, appoints an independent auditor or such other person 
or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally or in relation to any 
particular matter, it shall be the duty of such margin Provider:
(a)
 to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the margin 
Provider relating to its business;
(b)
 to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
margin Provider relating to its business;
(c)
 to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of 
obtaining; 
(d)
 to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any particulars.
47.
 A margin Provider shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books 
relating to the business of the margin Provider which are in its possession or under 
its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the 
carrying out of any examination.
Submission of information 
to the Commission
48.
 A margin Provider shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating to 
its business as the commission may require from time to time.
49.
 the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be 
submitted within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as 
the commission may specify and the margin Provider shall comply with such 
requirements.
Compliance manual 50.
 A margin Provider shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its directors 
and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance procedures 
and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.
Regulatory compliance and 
internal controls
51.
 A Margin Provider shall have a compliance officer on a full-time basis who shall:
(a) be an Attorney-at-Law having a minimum period of five (5) years of experience 
in matters relating to compliance or possesses any other qualification/experience 
as specified in Rule 27 of these Rules;
(b)
 report directly to the board of directors/board sub-committee dealing with risk of 
the margin Provider; and 
(c)
 not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer.
52.
 the margin Provider shall inform the commission on the appointment of such 
compliance officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of appointment. 
In the event of a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, the Margin Provider 
shall also give notice to the commission no later than two (2) weeks from its effective 
date.

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
56A
53. The compliance officer on behalf of the Margin Provider shall make a quarterly 
compliance report which shall include amongst others the contents specified in 
schedule V of these rules approved by the board of directors and signed by a director 
and the chief executive officer confirming compliance with the provisions of the SEC 
Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by the commission 
from time to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, No. 06 of 2006 where 
applicable and forward same to the commission, before the twentieth (20
th) day of the 
following month.
 however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for rectification 
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date 
of which the board of directors were informed as to the steps that have been taken by 
the board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.
54.
 employees of the margin Provider shall obtain the prior written approval from the 
compliance officer in respect of all Personal Account Dealings. Such dealings shall be 
conducted in a manner that will not prejudice the interests of its clients.
 For the purpose of this rule, ‘Personal Account dealing’ means margin trading 
transactions carried out for and on behalf of margin trading Accounts opened for 
their employees.
55. A margin Provider shall maintain procedures to ensure that complaints of clients 
relating to the conduct of its business are handled in a timely and effective manner.
56.
 A margin Provider shall have a mechanism in place to identify restricted shares and 
remove such shares from the list of marginable securities.
57. A margin Provider shall have a procedure spelling out instances where the margin 
Provider may release information relating to the margin facility of the client.
58.
 margin Providers shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence 
procedures specified by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Central Bank of 
sri Lanka where applicable from time to time.
Notification on the 
happening of certain events
59.
 Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, these 
rules or directives, the margin Provider shall forthwith provide written notice to the 
commission if:
(a)
 the margin Provider is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved 
whether within or outside sri Lanka where a receiver, liquidator or an equivalent 
person has been appointed in respect of any property of the margin Provider;
(b)
 the margin Provider ceases to carry on the business to which the licence relates; 
(c) the margin Provider has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, 
rules relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person of a market 
Intermediary and the Rules specified herein or any other directive issued by the 
commission from time to time; 
(d)
 it comes to know that any information or document furnished to the commission 
is false or misleading or there is any change in any information or document 
furnished to the commission;

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
57A
(e) any execution against the margin Provider in respect of a judgment debt has 
been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part;
(f) the margin Provider whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise 
or scheme of arrangement that is still in operation; 
(g) any director, or the chief executive officer has been convicted of any offence 
involving fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside 
of sri Lanka; or 
(h)
 any director or the chief executive officer of the Margin Provider becomes an 
undischarged bankrupt.
Advertisements 60.
 Amargin Provider shall ensure that the content in advertisements promoting its 
services is accurate, complete and is not misleading.
61.
 the margin Provider shall submit a copy of all advertisements proposed to be 
published, for the perusal of the commission at least one (1) week prior to its 
publication in the media.
Credit assessment 62.
 the margin Provider shall perform a credit assessment of the client to determine his 
credit worthiness before granting the margin facility.
63. The Margin Provider shall ensure that its account opening procedures are sufficiently 
diligent to identify the creditworthiness of clients.
64.
 The Margin Provider shall ascertain matters such as the Client’s financial position, 
investment experience and investment objectives in relation to the services to be 
provided.
65.
 the margin Provider shall ensure that before carrying out client’s instructions, the 
capacity of the client to proceed with such transaction and advice the client on the 
steps to be taken in order to enable such transaction to proceed. 
Individual/joint Client 
account
66.
 A margin Provider shall obtain particulars of the client, including the full name, 
a copy of the National Identity card/Passport, specimen signature, residential and 
correspondence addresses, e-mail address, telephone numbers, occupation, bank 
account details and the name, address and telephone numbers of the client’s employer/
business, prior to opening the margin trading Account.
Corporate Client account 67.
 Where the client is a corporate entity, the margin Provider shall obtain particulars 
of the client, including the full names, National Identity card details, telephone 
numbers of the board of directors, the beneficial owners of the entity, business 
registration number, mailing addresses, e-mail address/es, bank account details, 
names of persons authorized to trade, authorized signatories, certified copy of the 
certificate of incorporation and articles of association of the Client, the certificate for 
commencement of business (if applicable) and board resolution to obtain a margin 
trading facility, prior to opening a margin trading Account.

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
58A
Margin Trading Account 68. the margin trading Account shall be utilized to debit all costs of the purchase of 
marginable securities, interest, commissions, charges, fees and all other monies 
payable by the client arising from the facilities extended and to which shall be 
credited all proceeds of the sale of marginable securities held by the margin Provider 
on behalf of the client and to defray all government levies and taxes payable.
69. the maximum margin loan extendable by a margin Provider to a single client shall 
be fifteen per centum (15%) of the maximum margin loan exposure of the Margin 
Provider stipulated by the commission from time to time.
70.
 If a margin loan is granted to a body corporate, such body corporate, its parent, 
subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates and if a margin loan is granted 
to a natural person, such natural person, his/her spouse and dependent children shall 
be treated as a margin trading facility granted to a single client for the purpose of 
computing the single client exposure limit under this rule.
Slash accounts 71.
 margin Providers shall open slash accounts with the central depository in respect 
of all its margin clients, through which all transactions relating to the marginable 
securities will be conducted.
72.
 A margine provider shall ensuure that  the slash accounts shall be operated by the 
Stock Broker only on the specific instructions of the Margin Provider.
Statement of accounts to 
Clients
73.
 A margin Provider shall send astatement of accounts to all clients on a monthly basis 
not later than the seventh (7 th) day of the following month in respect of the margin 
trading Account via electronic means. this shall apply to all clients who have had 
transactions and have a debit or credit balance in the account. In addition, at the end 
of the dealing day, a transaction report containing the details of trades made during the 
day shall also be sent to the clients via electronic means.
74.
 the statement of accounts is to be sent by post only if the client makes a request in 
writing. 
Margin Requirement 75.
 A margin Provider shall ensure that:
(a) the initial margin permitted to its clients on share purchases does not exceed 
fifty per centum (50%) of cash value of the marginable securities portfolio of the 
clients; and
(b)
 the minimum maintenance margin of thirty per centum (30%) or any other 
percentage as decided by the commission from time to time, shall be maintained 
at all times in the form of cash and/or marginable securities. 
Margin exposure 76. the margin Provider shall ensure that the aggregate value of loans extended as margin 
at no time exceeds four (4) times the value of its shareholders’ Funds or any other 
value as determined by the commission from time to time.
 Provided however, this limit shall not apply to margin Providers who have been 
granted a licence and are regulated by the central Bank of sri Lanka.

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
59A
Margin call 77. A margin Provider shall make a margin call when the value of the marginable 
securities in the slash account fall below the maintenance margin requirement.
78. the client shall be required to respond to the margin call within three (3) market days 
by:
(a)
 providing cash or marginable securities to satisfy the maintenance margin 
requirement; or
(b) instructing the margin Provider to sell his securities to recover the shortfall.
79. In the event the investor fails to respond within three (3) market days of the margin 
call, the margin Provider shall recover the maintenance margin outstanding by force 
selling the marginable securities in the slash account as the case maybe. 
80.
 In the event of forced selling, a written notice (either electronically or otherwise) shall 
be forwarded to the client at the end of the market day, upon the sale being concluded.
Extension of credit to 
purchase own securities
81.
 A margin Provider shall not grant credit facilities to purchase:
(a) its own securities or those held by its directors, employees, or registered persons;
(b) securities of its parent, subsidiaries joint vntures and associates of the margin 
Provider.
Acceptance of own 
securities as collateral
82. A margin Provider shall not accept the following as marginable securities:
(a) its own securities; or
(b) securities of its parent, subsidiaries joint ventures and associates of the margin 
Provider.
83. A margin Provider shall ensure that the collateral held for margin trading shall not 
be used as collateral for any other facilities of the client.
Permissible debits from the 
Margin Trading Account 
84. A margin Provider shall ensure that withdrawals of sales proceeds from the margin 
trading Account may only be permitted upon:
(a) ensuring compliance with the minimum maintenance margin requirement; and
(b) recovering the interest charged on the particular purchase of securities.
85. In the event a sale of securities gives rise to a credit balance, such credit balance in 
the margin trading Account shall be paid to the client immediately upon the actual 
receipt of the sales proceeds unless the client’s written consent is obtained to retain 
such sales proceeds. 
Client-Margin Provider 
dispute resolution  
86.
 Without prejudice to the powers of the commission as set out in these rules, 
any dispute between the client and the margin Provider with regard to terms and 
conditions set out in the tripartite agreement as the case may be, shall be resolved in 
accordance with the provisions set out in the margin trading agreement pertaining to 
dispute resolution.
87.
 In the event any dispute has been resolved in a court of law or by an arbitration 
tribunal as the case may be, a copy of the final order/judgment of court/arbitrator’s 
award shall be submitted to the commission by the margin Provider immediately 
upon receiving such judgement/order/award.
Cancellation or suspension 
of a licence
88.
 the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to a margin Provider shall be 
governed by the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
60A
Commencement of 
operations
89. If the margin Provider fails to commence the business not later than six (6) months 
after the issue of the licence, then the licence will cease to be valid.
Licence of a Margin 
Provider deemed to be 
revoked
90.
 A licence of a margin Provider shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to 
whom a licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved.
Cessation of operations and 
surrender of a licence
91.
 In the event a margin Provider decides to cease its business operations as a margin 
Provider, it shall:
 (a)
 submit to the commission within seven (7) working days from the date of the 
decision of the board of directors to cease business operations, a certified extract 
of the board resolution together with a status report of its clients as at that date;   
(b)
 within fourteen (14) working days of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations, communicate to its clients in writing its decision to 
cease operations as a margin Provider and the procedure to be followed by the 
clients with regard to their intention to transfer to any other margin Provider or 
settlement of the facility setting out specific timelines;
(c)
 within twenty-one (21) working days of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations,publish a notice in all three (3) languages in national 
newspapers announcing its decision to cease business operations as a margin 
Provider and indicating a time period within which its clients are required 
to respond regarding their intention to transfer to any other margin Provider 
or settlement of the facility with specific timelines and to call upon them to 
intimate if there are any claims/complaints.
92.
 the margin Provider shall complete the tasks of settling the facilities of the clients/
transferring their portfolios to any other margin Provider and resolving any complaints 
within a period of not more than three (3) months from the date of the decision of the 
board of directors to cease business operations (or any extended period permitted by 
the commission in writing) and submit to the commission a declaration from the 
board of directors of the Margin Provider in the form of an affidavit confirming that:
(a)
 all of its margin trading agreements entered into with clients have been 
terminated;
(b) together with the affidavit as stated in Rule 92 hereof, the Margin Provider shall 
return the licence to the commission;
(c)
 all outstanding amounts to clients if any have been settled or has transferred the 
portfolio balances of the respective clients to any other margin Provider upon 
obtaining their consent;
(d)
 the margin Provider has published the paper notice; and
(e) there are no pending complaints in relation to the operations of the margin 
Provider.
93.
 Where a margin Provider ceases to carry on the business in all or any of the regulated 
activities to which the licence relates, it shall return the licence to the commission 
within fourteen (14) days of the date of such cessation.
94.
 the surrender of a licence shall not take effect until the commission informs the 
margin Provider in writing that such surrender has been accepted upon satisfying 
itself that all steps with regard to the cessation of operations have been duly satisfied 
in terms of these rules.

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
61A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant entity) 
being duly incorporated and having our registered office/principal place of business at ……..........(address)…........ 
hereby undertake and agree:
1.
 to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2.
 to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant entity by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dishonesty, 
misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements made and information provided 
along with the application for the grant/renewal of a licence are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge. 
Given under the common seal of the entity on this …....................... day of …......................... in the presence of
……………………….
(Name) 
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this …........................... day of …................................
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:  Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority. 

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
62A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary unless that individual is a fit 
and proper person to hold such office in such entity as morefully described in 
these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and employees 
dealing with Clients, shall submit an affidavit to the Commission affirming 
that such person is not subject to any of the infirmities morefully described in 
these rules prior to such individual being appointed and at the time the market 
Intermediary seeks a licence or a renewal of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer of a Market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors 
of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office 
of a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately 
notify the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not:
(a)   be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
63A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position 
or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial 
fraud by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
Financial soundness 7.   the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not:
(a)    have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)   have been subject to any judegment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)   have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
64A
i.     has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.     has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with 
its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had assets 
sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of 
law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall:
(a)    not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)   
 have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
65A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.  
 I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities 
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
66A
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or been 
involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having  
accepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her  
signature at …………. on 
this …………… dayof…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable
 
 

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
67A
SCHEDULE IV
Minimum Contents of a Compliance Manual
1. Conflicts of Interest:
(a) an effective internal control framework to prevent abuse or detect inappropriate practices or conflicts of interest 
between proprietary transactions, employees’ transactions and clients’ transactions; 
 Provided that, in the event such conflict cannot be avoided there shall be full disclosure thereof to its Clients and 
the margin Provider shall obtain consent of the client in writing prior to carrying out the material transaction;
(b)
 procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities that give 
rise to a risk of a conflict of interest; 
(c)
 procedures for the prevention or limitation of any person from exercising inappropriate influence over the 
manner in which a relevant person carries out services or activities; 
(d)
 a mechanism to monitor and identify non-compliance with the conflicts of interest policy and steps to address 
such non-compliance in an appropriate and in a timely manner;
(e)
 ensure that it does not carry out any activities, which could cause a conflict of interest with its margin providing 
functions.
2.
 corporate Governance:
(a) good business practices and follow just and fair principles in the conduct of its business;
(b) compliance requirements contained in any code or best practices introduced by the commission in respect of 
margin Providers;
(c)
 the timely issuance of client statements;
(d) an effective complaint handling process.
3. risk management:
(a) sound risk management policies and processes;
(b) explanations on the risks applicable to securities financing.

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
68A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.    Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a)    securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b)   rules issued by the commission;
(c)    rules of an exchange; and
(d)  rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2.    If not:
(a)    give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b)   action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c)   
 the outcome. 
3.    Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
    If so:
(a)    the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b)   outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/3

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
69A
RULES APPLICABLE TO MANAGING COMPANIES
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA ACT, NO. 19 OF 2021 
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
 Viraj  Dayaratne PC
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo, 
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to managing companies.
General interpretation 1.    The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka 
Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the same meaning 
assigned to them in the said Act:
“Collective Investment Scheme (CIS)” shall have the same meaning as defined in 
section 188 of the sec Act;
For the avoidance of doubt unit trusts established and in operation in terms of the sec 
Act, No. 36 of 1987 as amended shall come under this definition;
“collective Investment scheme code (cIs code)” shall mean the cIs code issued by 
the commission and published in the Gazette and applicable to all collective Investment 
schemes established in terms of the sec Act;
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka established 
in terms of the sec Act;
“custodian” shall mean a person referred to as a ‘Professional Participant’ in the cIs 
code and acting as a custodian of a cIs;
“Key Investor Information document (KIId)” means a written statement that discloses 
the terms of the offering of a cIs;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall include 
alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and persons having 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of a 
company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Managing Company” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the 
sec Act;

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
70A
“related Person” means in relation to a trustee or the managing company of a collective 
Investment scheme:
(a)    a person owning twenty per centum (20%) or more of the ordinary share capital  
of the trustee or the managing company directly or indirectly; 
(b)   a person exercising twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total votes of the 
trustee or the managing company voting rights directly or indirectly; 
(c)    a corporate entity where twenty per centum (20%) or more of the ordinary share 
capital of the corporate entity is held by the trustee or the managing company 
directly or indirectly;
(d)   a corporate entity where twenty per centum (20%) or more of voting rights of 
the total votes exercised by the trustee or the managing company directly or 
indirectly;
(e)    a corporate entity where twenty per centum (20%) or more of the ordinary share 
capital of the corporate entity is held together by the trustee and the managing 
company directly or indirectly;
(f)   a corporate entity where twenty per centum (20%) or more of voting rights of 
the total votes are exercised together by the trustee and the managing company 
directly or indirectly;
(g)    a Key management Person of the trustee or the managing company of a cIs.
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 
2021;
“shareholders’ Funds” means the amount of equity of the entity, which belongs to the 
shareholders of the entity;
“trustee” shall mean a person referred to as a ‘Professional Participant’ in the cIs code 
and acting as a trustee of a cIs;
“Unit Holder” shall have the same meaning as defined in the Collective Investment 
scheme code. 
Applicability 2.   the rules set out herein shall apply to a managing company licensed under the sec Act.
3.   every managing company shall comply with: 
(a)   the rules set out herein, the provisions of the cIs code and any amendments made 
thereto; 
(b)   provisions of the sec Act;
(c)   directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d) rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Intermediary as spelt out in schedule II of these 
rules.  
Requirement for a 
licence
4.    No entity shall engage in the function of a managing company of a cIs without having 
first obtained a licence from the Commission.
5.    the period of validity of a licence granted to a managing company shall be twelve (12) 
months. 

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
71A
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
6.   the grant of a licence to a managing company shall be a two (2) stage process. An 
applicant may in the first instance apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying the 
requirements as set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval 
may thereafter apply for final approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out in 
(b) hereof:
(a)     In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the commission:
i.      a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on the 
website of the commission along with the supporting documents mentioned 
therein;
ii.     the certificate of incorporation of the Managing Company;
iii.    the shareholding structure;
iv.    names of directors;
v.    the organizational chart and the group structure including details of related 
Persons;
vi.  documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of a  
managing company;
vii.   licence/registration status of any other regulated activities;
viii. audited financial statements and if such statements are not available, the 
audited interim financial statements;
ix.    names of the Key Management Persons if they have been identified;
x.     a declaration by the applicant as per the specimen in schedule I of these rules;  
xi.   a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of these 
rules;
xii. documentation in support of measures taken to acquire an information 
processing system as stated in rule 26 of these rules;
xiii. documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human resources 
to effectively discharge the obligations in keeping with the identified 
organizational structure of the applicant; and
xiv. the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval  
specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time to time.
(b)  No later than six (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, 
the applicant shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following 
documents as proof thereof in order to obtain the licence:
i.     confirmation from the auditor that the applicant has met the requirements as 
spelt out in rule 22 (a) of these rules;

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
72A
ii.   declarations by Key management Persons and persons making investment 
decisions on behalf of Unit Holders relating to their fitness and propriety to 
hold such office in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management 
Person of a market Intermediary as contained in schedule II of these rules. 
Such declaration shall be in the form of an affidavit prepared in accordance 
with the specimen provided in schedule III of these rules;
iii.   a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Managing 
Company confirming the implementation of an information processing system 
as stated in rule 26 of these rules;
iv.    a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Managing 
Company confirming the recruitment of adequate human resources along with 
their names and designations;
v.   a copy of the application form to be used for the subscription of units by 
prospective unit holders of the cIs to be established;
vi.   names of members of the investment committee;
vii.  a copy of the draft trust deed in respect of the cIs proposed to be established;
viii.  details of the custodian and its consent to function as a custodian of the cIs 
proposed to be established; 
ix.    a copy of the proposed KIId of the cIs to be established;
x.    name of the intended trustee and its consent to function as a trustee of the  
cIs to be established; and
xi.  the licence fee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister  
from time to time.
7.    It shall be the duty of the managing company to notify the commission and obtain its 
prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application to be licensed as 
a managing company.
8.      the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as a managing company 
on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Obtaining approval 
of the Commission to 
establish a CIS
9.    In order to establish, manage, operate and market a cIs, a managing company shall 
obtain the prior written approval of the commission.  An application for such approval 
shall be in accordance with the specimen provided on the website of the commission.

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
73A
10.   In establishing, managing, operating and marketing a cIs, a managing company shall 
comply with the provisions contained in the cIs code.
11.  In establishing, managing, operating and marketing a cIs, a managing company shall 
ensure that:
(a) the trustee and the managing company are separate persons;
(b) the custodian and the managing company are separate persons;
(c) the trustee is not a related Person of the managing company;
(d) the KIId (and any amendments thereto) has been approved by the commission;
(e) the trustee has been approved by the commission;
(f) approval of the trustee has been obtained for the KIId; and
(g) the trust deed between the managing company and the trustee has been approved 
by the commission.
12 In the event a managing company licensed by a regulatory authority of a country other 
than sri Lanka intends to market a cIs in sri Lanka, it shall provide the following 
documents to obtain approval to market such cIs:
(a) a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on the 
website of the commission along with the supporting documents set out therein;
(b)
 a copy of the licence granted by the foreign regulatory authority along with copies 
of documents submitted to obtain such licence;
(c)
 copies of any approvals obtained from the central Bank of sri Lanka under the 
Foreign exchange Act, No.12 of 2017; and
(d)
 any other information that the commission may deem necessary.
13. The fee payable in respect of obtaining approval for a CIS shall be specified by way of 
regulations made by the minister from time to time.
*
 For the avoidance of doubt, any unit trust which has been licensed by the 
commission in terms of the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
Act, No. 36 of 1987 and which licence is valid at the time of the introduction of 
these rules shall not be required to obtain the approval of the commission in 
terms of rule 9 herein. the licence so granted shall be construed as the approval 
referred to herein. 

<!-- page 74 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
74A
Renewal of a licence 14. A managing company shall submit an application for renewal of its licence three (3) 
months prior to the expiry of the licence along with the renewal fee.
15. An application for renewal shall be in the format provided by the commission on its 
website along with the supporting documents mentioned therein.
16.  A managing company who fails to submit an application for renewal within the aforesaid 
time period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of regulations made by the 
minister from time to time.
17.
 In the event the licence of a managing company expires as a result of a managing 
company failing to take steps to renew it, the provisions contained in clause 16 (3) (e) 
of the cIs code shall apply.  
18.
 A managing company which has neither taken steps to voluntarily terminate its 
appointment in the manner provided under the cIs code nor taken steps to renew its 
licence in terms of these rules shall not be entitled to the grant of a new licence as a 
managing company.
 This disqualification shall also apply to a company whose board of directors comprises 
of any individual(s) who functioned as a director(s) of the company which has failed to 
have its licence renewed as aforesaid. 
19.
 It shall be the duty of the managing company to notify the commission and obtain its 
prior consent of any change in particulars specified in an application for the renewal of 
licence as a managing company.
20.
 the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as a 
managing company on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec 
Act.
Licensing fee 21.
 A managing company shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.
Minimum financial 
requirements and 
submission of reports
22.
 A managing company shall:
(a)  at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ Funds as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(b) inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ Funds fall below the  
requirement as stipulated in rule 22 (a) above;
(c) not carry on its activities as a Managing Company if the minimum financial 
requirements as determined by the commission are not met, unless the prior 
written approval of the commission is obtained.
23.
 A managing company shall provide the following information as set out below to the 
commission:
(a) 
 financial statements prepared monthly in conformity with the Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards signed by a director and the chief executive officer before the twentieth 
(20
th) day of the following month;

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
75A
(b)  a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance with 
the sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the sri Lanka 
Auditing standards within a period of four (4) months from the close of each 
financial year.
24. 
 A managing company shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s report 
or any additional period of time permitted by the commission, take steps to rectify the 
deficiencies if any, made out in the auditor’s report, in so far as they relate to the activity 
of managing investments.
Change in shareholding 
of a Managing 
Company
25. 
 A change in the shareholding of twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total shareholding 
of a managing company shall be made only with prior consent of the commission.
Infrastructure and 
related requirements
26. A managing company shall at all times:
(a) 
 maintain proper systems including information technology processes and human 
resources suitable and adequate to support the proper conduct of its business as a 
managing company;
(b) 
 ensure that an effective system of functional barriers is in place to prevent the flow 
of information that may be confidential and/or price sensitive to persons not entitled 
to receive such information; and
(c) 
 have appropriate information recording and retrieval systems and maintain such 
information for inspection by the commission.
Qualifications and 
experience of A person 
making investment 
decisions on behalf of 
Unit Holders
27. 
 Any person who on behalf of a managing company is involved making decisions for a 
CIS shall possess the qualifications set out in sub section (a) and the experience set out 
in subsection (b) or possess the experience set out in subsection (c):
(a)
(i) 
 a degree from a recognized university in the fields of Finance, Accountancy, 
Business Administration, commerce and economics;
(ii) 
 member/Associate of a professional body of Accountants recognized by the 
International Federation of Accountants;
(iii) 
 chartered Financial Analyst;
(iv)  Associate of the chartered Institute of Bankers;
(v)  Associate of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka;
(vi)  Associate of the chartered Institute for securities and Investments;
(vii) any other professional and/or academic qualification acceptable to the 
commission; 
and
(b) 
 experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of two (2) 
years. the commission shall consider the relevance, nature, the scope and 
experience in determining such adequacy;
or
(c) 
 experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of seven (7) 
years. the commission shall consider relevance, nature, scope and experience 
gained in determining its adequacy.  

<!-- page 76 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
76A
Requirement for a 
minimum number of 
persons on behalf of 
Unit Holders making  
investment decisions
28. 
 A managing company shall ensure that a minimum of two (2) persons possessing 
qualifications and/or experience as set out in these Rules are employed by the Managing 
company to make investment decisions in accordance with the investment objective and 
policy set out in the KIId and the trust deed of the cIs and to deal with unit holders.
29.  
 Any person who on behalf of a managing company is involved in making investment 
decisions for a cIs shall not make investment decisions of any other licensed/approved 
business activity of the entity unless prior written approval of the commission is 
obtained.
30.  
 Any person who on behalf of a managing company is involved in making investment 
decision for a cIs and any person engaged in the process of marketing a cIs shall 
follow continuous Professional development (cPd) programmes conducted by the 
commission on an annual basis.
 
31.  
 the commission may direct the managing company to vary the number of such 
qualified personnel on account of the volume of business proposed to be undertaken or 
currently undertaken by such managing company.
Managing Company 
dealing with Unit 
Holders
32. 
 A managing company and all individuals who deal with unit holders of the cIs shall:
(a)   ensure that transactions carried out on behalf of the cIs are in accordance with 
the objectives, investment strategy, investment parameters, risk profile and other 
provisions contained in the KIId, the sec Act, these rules and the cIs code; and 
(b)  refrain from intentionally carrying out transactions (cross trades) between its own 
accounts, personal accounts of its employees, private portfolio accounts and the 
cIs. 
Functions, duties 
and general business 
obligations of a 
Managing Company
33. 
 A managing company of a cIs shall in addition to these rules comply with the functions, 
duties and general business obligations assigned to it under the cIs code.
Commission approval 
to engage in other 
business
34.  
 A managing company shall disclose to the commission all other business activities 
it is engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the commission in 
writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after obtaining a licence from the 
commission.
35.  
 A managing company shall not engage in any other business, which in the view of the 
Commission creates a conflict of interest unless prior written approval of the Commission 
is obtained.
36.  
 In the conduct of any other business activity, the managing company shall ensure that 
proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different functions 
pertaining to such businesses. 
Restrictions on the 
Managing Company 
to buy/sell or deal in 
securities for its own 
behalf
37. 
 unless approved by the commission a managing company shall be prohibited from 
buying or selling any securities in its own name or having equity interest in any entity 
wholly or partly, directly or indirectly engaged in the business of dealing in securities.

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
77A
Transactions with 
Related Persons
38.  A managing company shall not invest the assets of the cIs in the securities issued by 
a related company of the managing company without the prior written consent of the 
trustee. All such transactions shall be disclosed in the annual report of the cIs.
39.  the following transactions shall only be made with the prior written consent of the 
trustee and shall be disclosed in the annual report of the cIs:
(a)  
 all transactions between the cIs and the managing company, a Key management 
Person/employee of the managing company or any immediate family member of 
such Key management Person/employee;
(b) 
 all transactions between the cIs and an associate, joint venture, subsidiary or 
holding company of the managing company.
  For the purposes of this rule an associate means an enterprise in which the 
Managing Company has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor 
a joint venture of the managing company. 
Amendments to the 
KIID
40.  
 A managing company may amend its KIId either by the substitution of a completely 
new memorandum or by the addition or deletion of any information contained therein 
with the prior approval of the trustee:
(a) 
 upon the occurrence of any material change in the information stated therein; or
(b)   any significant development takes place which requires it to be included therein.
Disclosures required 
for changes in fees
41.  
 the managing company shall give the unit holders, not less than one (1) month prior 
written communication of any increase in the managing company’s annual charges, up 
to the maximum permitted level specified in the trust deed.
Situations where 
investments of one 
CIS are made in 
another CIS under 
the management of 
the same Managing 
Company
42.  
 Where the cIs invests in units of any other cIs, there shall be no increase in the front-
end fee, annual fee or any other costs or charges borne by unit holders or out of the 
funds of the cIs if both cIs are managed by the same managing company or by a 
related Person of the managing company.
Maintenance of records 43.  
 A managing company shall maintain the following records pertaining to unit holders:
(a)   the register of unit holders disclosing the name and address of unit holders, their 
nominees and beneficial owners;
(b)   the number of units including the fraction of a unit held by each unit holder;
(c)   the date on which the unit holder was registered or a cds account was opened on 
behalf of the unit holder in respect of the units standing in the unit holder’s name; 
and
(d)  
 the number of units including fractions of units for the time being in issue.

<!-- page 78 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
78A
44.   All of the above records shall be retained by the managing company for a period of six 
(6) years.
45.   All of above records pertaining to unit holders whose units have been redeemed shall 
be retained by the managing company for a period of six (6) years from the date of such 
redemption.
46.   the managing company shall ensure that a unit holder’s information is updated 
regularly and in any event on an annual basis.
47.   A Managing Company shall ensure confidentiality of all information relating to Unit 
Holders including such Unit Holder’s identity, their beneficial owner and transactions 
carried out for such unit holder, unless and to the extent such disclosure is required by 
law.
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns 
48. A managing company shall:
(a)  
 maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as 
will truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and enable 
the preparation of a true and fair Income statement and a statement of Financial 
Position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the 
Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka; 
(b)  
 maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in 
such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c)  
 retain such accounting records and other books for a period of not less than six (6) 
years.  
Duty to furnish 
information and co-
operate with auditors 
appointed by the 
Commission
49.  
 Where the commission having considered that it is in the  interests of the managing 
company or of the unit holders,  appoints an independent auditor or such other person 
or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally or in relation to any 
particular matter pertaining to the managing company or any cIs under its management, 
it shall be the duty of such managing company:
(a)  
 to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the managing 
company relating to its business;
(b)  
 to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
managing company relating to its business;
(c)  
 to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of obtaining; 
and
(d)  
 to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any particulars.  
50.  
 A managing company shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books 
relating to the business of the managing company which are in its possession or under its 
control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the carrying 
out of any examination.

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
79A
Submission of 
information to the 
Commission
51.  
 A managing company shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating 
to its business as the commission may require from time to time.
52.   the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be submitted 
within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as the commission 
may specify and the managing company shall comply with such requirements.
Compliance manual 53.  A managing company shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its  
directors and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance 
procedures and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.
Regulatory compliance 
and internal controls
54.  
 A Managing Company shall have a compliance officer on a full-time basis who shall:
(a)   be an Attorney-at-Law having a minimum period of five (5) years of experience in 
matters relating to compliance or possesses any other qualification/experience as 
specified in Rule 27 of these Rules;
(b)  
 report directly to the board of directors/board sub-committee dealing with risk of 
the managing company; and
(c)  
 not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer.
55.  
 the managing company shall inform the commission on the appointment of such 
compliance officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of appointment. 
In the event of a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, the Managing 
company shall give notice to the commission no later than two (2) weeks from its 
effective date.
56.  
 The compliance officer on behalf of the Managing Company shall make a quarterly 
compliance report  which shall include amongst others the contents specified in Schedule 
V of these rules approved by the board of directors and signed by a director and the 
chief executive officer confirming compliance with the provisions of the SEC Act, the 
criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by the commission from time 
to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, No. 06 of 2006 where applicable 
and forward same to the commission, before the twentieth (20
th) day of the following 
month.
   However, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance officer 
shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for rectification and inform 
the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date on which the 
board of directors were informed as to the steps that have been taken by the board of 
directors to rectify such non-compliance.   
57.  
 A managing company shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence 
procedures specified by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Central Bank of Sri 
Lanka where applicable from time to time.

<!-- page 80 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
80A
Notification on the 
happening of certain 
events
58.  
 Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, the cIs 
code, these rules or directives, the managing company shall forthwith provide written 
notice to the commission if:
(a)   
 the managing company is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved 
whether within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator or an equivalent 
person has been appointed in respect of any property of the managing company;
(b)   the managing company ceases to carry on the business to which the licence relates; 
(c)   
 the managing company has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, 
the cIs code, rules relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person 
of a Market Intermediary or the Rules specified herein or any other directive issued 
by the commission from time to time; 
(d)   it becomes aware that any information or document furnished to the commission is 
false or misleading or there is any change in any information or document furnished 
to the commission;
(e)   
 any execution against the managing company in respect of a judgment debt has 
been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part; 
(f)   
 the managing company whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise or 
scheme of arrangement that is still in operation; 
(g)  any director, or the chief executive officer has been convicted of any offence 
involving fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside of 
sri Lanka; or 
(h)  any director or the chief executive officer of the Managing Company becomes an 
undischarged bankrupt.
Advertisements 59.  
 All advertisements and promotional material in respect of a cIs shall be prepared in 
accordance with the guidelines contained in Appendix 2 of the cIs code.  
60.  
 No advertisement or promotional material shall be issued or published by the managing 
company on behalf of a cIs, without the prior written approval of the trustee. 
61.   A managing company shall submit a copy of the proposed advertisement and/
or promotional material for the perusal of the commission one (1) week prior to its 
publication along with a copy of the approval of the trustee. 
Termination and 
replacement of a 
Managing Company
62.  
 the manner of termination and replacement of a managing company of a cIs shall be 
made in terms of the provisions contained in the cIs code.
Cancellation or 
suspension of a licence
63.  
 the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to a managing company shall be 
governed by the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.
Commencement of 
operations
64.   If the managing company fails to commence its business operations no later than six (6) 
months after the issue of the licence, the licence shall cease to be valid.

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
81A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
            Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant entity) 
being duly incorporated and having our registered office/ principal place of business at .........................(address).............….. 
hereby undertake and agree:
1.   
 to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2.   
 to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant entity by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dishonesty, 
misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements made and information provided 
along with the application for the grant/renewal of a licence are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge.   
Given under the common seal of the entity on this ….......................... day of ....................................…. in the presence of
……………………….
(Name) 
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this …. day of …..
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:  Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority. 

<!-- page 82 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
82A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary unless that individual is a fit 
and proper person to hold such office in such entity as morefully described in 
these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends 
to continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and persons 
making investment decisions on behalf of unit holders, shall submit an 
affidavit to the Commission affirming that such person is not subject to any of 
the infirmities morefully described in these Rules prior to such individual being 
appointed and at the time the market Intermediary seeks a licence or a renewal 
of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer of a Market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors 
of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office 
of a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately 
notify the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and persons making investment decisions on 
behalf of unit holders shall not:
(a)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
83A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position 
or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial 
fraud by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
Financial soundness 7.   the Key management Person and persons making investment decisions on  
behalf of unit holders shall not:
(a)     have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)    have been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)    have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:

<!-- page 84 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
84A
i.       has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.    has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition 
with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had 
assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by 
a court of law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the 
foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person and persons making investment decisions on 
behalf of unit holders shall:
(a)   
 not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)   
 have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
85A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.   I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities 
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.

<!-- page 86 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
86A
 
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or been 
involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having  
accepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her signa-
ture at …………. on 
this …………… dayof…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
87A
SCHEDULE IV
Minimum Contents of a Compliance Manual
1.  Conflicts of Interest:
(a)   an effective internal control framework to prevent abuse or detect inappropriate investment practices or conflicts 
of interest between proprietary transactions, employees’ transactions and transactions of the cIs; 
         Provided that, in the event such conflict cannot be avoided there shall be full disclosure thereof to its Unit Holders 
and the managing company shall obtain consent of the trustee in writing prior to carrying out the material 
transaction.
(b)   procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities that give rise 
to a risk of a conflict of interest;
(c)   procedures to ensure that key duties and functions of the front office and back office are clearly segregated to 
avoid any conflicts of interest;
(d)   procedures for the prevention or limitation of any person from exercising inappropriate influence over the manner 
in which a relevant person carries out services or activities; 
(e)   a mechanism to monitor and identify non-compliance with the conflicts of interest policy and steps to address 
such non-compliance in an appropriate and in a timely manner; and
(f)   procedures to minimize and manage any conflicts of interest that may arise in carrying out a combination of 
regulated activities.
*     the above procedures, frameworks and mechanisms shall be in accordance with the guidelines contained in 
Appendix 6 of the cIs code.
2.  corporate Governance:
(a)  good business practices and just and fair principles in the conduct of its business; and
(b)  compliance requirements contained in any code or Best Practices introduced by the commission in respect of 
managing companies;
(c)  an effective complaint handling process in accordance with the guidelines contained in Appendix 7 of the cIs 
code.
3.  risk management:
(a)  sound risk management policies and processes; and
(b)  explanations on the risks applicable to securities investments.

<!-- page 88 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
88A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.  Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a)  securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b)  rules issued by the commission including the collective Investment schemes code;
(c)  rules of an exchange (as applicable); and
(d)  rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2. If not:
(a)  give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b)  action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c)  the outcome. 
3. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
     If so:
(a)  the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b)  outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/4

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
89A
RULES APPLICABLE TO CORPORATE FINANCE ADVISORS
the securItIes ANd eXchANGe cOmmIssION OF srI LANKA Act, NO. 19 OF 2021 
 
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021. 
 Viraj Dayaratne PC
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo,
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to corporate Finance Advisors.
 
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka 
Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the same meaning 
assigned to them in the said Act:
   “client” means a person who has entered into an agreement with a corporate Finance 
Advisor to obtain its services;
    “commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka established 
in terms of the sec Act;
    “Corporate Finance Advisor” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of 
the sec Act;
    “Exchange” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC Act;
   “Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall include 
alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and persons having 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of a 
company/entity either directly or indirectly.
   “Listed Public Company” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the 
sec Act;
   “sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 
2021;
    “shareholders’ Advisor” means a corporate Finance Advisor appointed by the listed 
entity to prepare an opinion for shareholders of the listed entity.

<!-- page 90 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
90A
Applicability 2.   the rules set out herein shall apply to corporate Finance Advisors licensed under the 
sec Act.
3.   every corporate Finance Advisor shall comply with:
(a)  the rules set out herein and any amendments made thereto;
(b)  provisions of the sec Act;
(c)  directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d)  rules issued by the commission on the Fitness and Propriety of a Key management 
Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of these rules. 
Requirement for a  
licence
4.    No entity shall engage in the function of a corporate Finance Advisor without having 
first obtained a licence from the Commission.
5.   the period of validity of a licence granted to a corporate Finance Advisor shall be 
twelve (12) months. 
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
6.   the grant of a licence to a corporate Finance Advisor shall be a two (2) stage process. 
An applicant may in the first instance apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying 
the requirements as set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval 
may thereafter apply for final approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out in 
(b) hereof:
(a)  In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the commission:
i.     a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on the 
website of the commission along with the supporting documents mentioned 
therein;
ii.     documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of a corporate 
Finance Advisor;
iii.   a declaration by the applicant as per the affidavit in Schedule I of these Rules;  
iv.   a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of these 
rules;
v.  documentation in support of measures taken to acquire an information  
processing system as stated in rules 21 and 22 of these rules;
vi.   documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human resources 
to effectively discharge the obligations in keeping with the identified 
organizational structure of the applicant; and
vii. the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval specified 
by way of regulations made by the minister from time to time.
(b) No later than six (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, 
the applicant shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following 
documents as proof thereof in order to obtain the licence:

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
91A
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
i.   declarations by Key management Persons and employees dealing with clients 
relating to their fitness and propriety to hold such office in terms of Fitness and 
Propriety of a Key management Person of a market Intermediary stipulated in 
Schedule II of these Rules. Such declaration shall be in the form of an affidavit 
prepared in accordance with the specimen provided in schedule III of these 
rules; 
ii.  a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the applicant 
confirming the implementation of an information processing system as stated in 
rule 21 and 22 of these rules;
iii. a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the applicant 
confirming the recruitment of adequate human resources along with their names 
and designations; and
iv.  the licence fee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time 
to time.
7.    It shall be the duty of the corporate Finance Advisor to notify the commission and 
obtain its prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application to be 
licensed as a corporate Finance Advisor.
8.     the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as a corporate Finance 
Advisor on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Renewal of a licence 9.     A corporate Finance Advisor shall submit an application for renewal three (3) months 
prior to the expiry of the licence along with the renewal fee.
10.   An application for renewal shall be in the format provided by the commission on its 
website along with the supporting documents mentioned therein.
11.    Any corporate Finance Advisor who fails to submit an application for renewal within 
the aforesaid time period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.
12.  In the event the licence of a corporate Finance Advisor expires as a result of a  
corporate Finance Advisor failing to take steps to renew it, the provisions contained 
in rule 58 of these rules with regard to cessation of operations shall apply. 
13.   A corporate Finance Advisor which has neither taken steps to cease its business 
operations as a corporate Finance Advisor nor taken steps to renew its licence in 
terms of these rules shall not be entitled to the grant of a new licence as a corporate 
Finance Advisor.
    This disqualification shall also apply to a company whose board of directors comprises 
of any individual(s) who functioned as a director(s) of the company which has failed 
to have its licence renewed as aforesaid.
14.    It shall be the duty of the corporate Finance Advisor to notify the commission and 
obtain its prior consent of any change in particulars contained in an application for the 
renewal of licence as a corporate Finance Advisor.
15.    the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as a 
corporate Finance Advisor on grounds more fully set out in section 95 of the sec 
Act.

<!-- page 92 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
92A
Licensing fee 16.  A corporate Finance Advisor shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of 
regulations made by the minister from time to time.
Submission of reports 17.  A corporate Finance Advisor shall provide the information set out below to the 
commission:
(a) financial statements prepared quarterly in conformity with the Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards signed by a director and the chief executive officer before 
the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; and
(b) a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance 
with the sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the sri 
Lanka Auditing standards within a period of four (4) months from the close of 
each financial year.
18.  All audit and non-audit services carried out by the auditors of the corporate Finance 
Advisor for the entity itself together with the fees and expenses charged should be 
disclosed separately in the relevant audited accounts.
19.  A corporate Finance Advisor shall, within three (3) months from the date of the 
auditor’s report or any additional period of time permitted by the commission, take 
steps to rectify the deficiencies if any, made out in the auditor’s report, in so far as they 
relate to corporate Finance Advisor functions.
Change in shareholding 
of a Corporate Finance 
Advisor
20.  A change in the shareholding of twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total shareholding 
of a corporate Finance Advisor shall be made only with prior written consent of the 
commission.
Provided however if the corporate Finance Advisor is a Listed Public company this 
requirement shall not apply.  
Infrastructure and 
related requirements
21.   A corporate Finance Advisor shall at all time shave in place appropriate policies 
and procedures, including adequate financial and human resources, infrastructure and 
information systems to provide reliable and high-quality corporate finance advisory 
services and maintain its operations and facilities with adequate security, system 
capacity, contingency arrangements including business continuity plans and proper 
review and oversight mechanisms.
22.   A corporate Finance Advisor shall have a suitable information recording and retrieval 
system and maintain such information for inspection by the commission.
23.   the corporate Finance Advisor may outsource part of its work in respect of any area 
in which the corporate Finance Advisor has no expertise but is required to prepare or 
jointly prepare or render an opinion in that area as a corporate Finance Advisor. the 
corporate Finance Advisor may use information obtained from other experts in the 
area as reference, provided that the Corporate Finance Advisor has verified that the 
experts are qualified in such area.
         however, if any function is to be outsourced, such fact shall be brought to the attention 
of the client in writing and be included in the agreement entered into with the client. 
24.   the corporate Finance Advisor shall enter into a written agreement with the party to 
whom any work is outsourced. such agreement shall contain an undertaking from the 
party to whom any work is outsourced that they will comply with the laws, rules and 
directives that the corporate Finance Advisor is bound to follow.

<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
93A
Qualifications and 
experience of those 
performing corporate 
finance advisory 
functions 
25.   Any person who on behalf of a corporate Finance Advisor is involved in performing 
corporate finance advisory functions for and on behalf of a Client, shall possess the 
qualifications set out in subsection (a) and the experience set out in subsection (b) or 
possess the experience set out in subsection (c):
(a)  (i) a degree from a recognized university in the fields of Finance,   
                  Accountancy, Business Administration and economics;
(ii)   member/Associate of a professional body of Accountants recognized by 
the International Federation of Accountants;
(iii) chartered Financial Analyst;
(iv) Associate of the chartered Institute of Bankers;
(v) Associate of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka;
(vi) Associate of the chartered Institute for securities and Investments; and
(vii) any other professional and/or academic qualification acceptable to the 
commission;
   and 
(b)     experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of two (2) 
years. the commission shall consider the relevance, nature, the scope and 
experience in determining such adequacy;
or 
(c)     experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of seven (7) 
years. the commission shall consider relevance, nature, scope and experience 
gained in determining its adequacy. 
Requirement for 
minimum number of 
financial advisors dealing 
with Clients
26. the corporate Finance Advisor shall ensure that a minimum of two (2) persons 
possessing qualifications and/or experience set out in these Rules are employed to 
deal with clients. 
27. the commission may direct the corporate Finance Advisor to vary the number of 
such qualified personnel having considered the volume of business proposed to be 
undertaken or currently undertaken by such corporate Finance Advisor.
Commission approval 
to engage in other 
businesses
28.  A corporate Finance Advisor shall disclose to the commission all other business 
activities it is engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the 
commission in writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after obtaining 
a licence from the commission.
29.    A corporate Finance Advisor shall not engage in any other business which in the view 
of the Commission creates a conflict of interest unless prior written approval of the 
commission is obtained.
30. In the conduct of any such other business activity, the corporate Finance Advisor shall 
ensure that proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different 
functions pertaining to such businesses.

<!-- page 94 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
94A
Written agreement and 
material information 
31.  A corporate Finance Advisor shall execute a written agreement with each client prior 
to carrying out any business for and on behalf of a client containing all the terms and 
conditions agreed to by and between itself and the client. Without prejudice to the 
generality of this clause it shall inter alia contain the following terms and conditions:
(a)    the procedure to be followed in carrying out the duties and functions; 
(b)    the fees to be charged by the corporate Finance Advisor; and
(c)    the rights and liabilities of each party in respect of the duties and functions carried 
out.
32.   A corporate Finance Advisor shall ensure that the agreement entered into is in a language 
mutually agreed upon by the parties. the subsequent amendments to the agreement, if 
any, shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties and be in writing.
Duties with regard to the  
issue of securities
33.
 the corporate Finance Advisor shall perform the following duties in respect of the 
issue of securities:
(a)
 prepare and file an application on behalf of the issuer  or offeror of securities, to 
Offer for sale/Offer for subscription/Introduction together with a draft prospectus 
and other relevant documents for the approval of the commission/exchange;
(b)
 take steps to verify that information submitted by an issuer of securities in an 
application for the sale of newly issued shares submitted for approval of the 
commission/exchange and the information contained in the draft prospectus 
is accurate and complete and that all the information for consideration by the 
commission/exchange and investors has been disclosed and is not misleading to 
those relying on such information;
(c)
 notify the Commission/Exchange that the issuer of securities has satisfied the 
requirements contained in the Listing Rules and therefore qualified to Offer for 
sale/Offer for subscription/Introduction;
(d)
 advise or take any action required to ensure that the issuer or the offeror of 
securities is aware of its duties, responsibilities, rules, regulations, conditions and 
other relevant procedures and ensure that the issuer of securities implements good 
corporate governance and sound management and operations for accountability 
to its shareholders;
(e)
 ensure that the assumptions and rationale for relying on such assumptions in 
preparing pro forma financial statements are reasonable and feasible;
(f)
 submit to the Commission/Exchange a written certification of the performance of 
the duties set out in rules 33(a), 33(b), 33(c), 33(d) and 33(e); and
(g)
 notify the commission/exchange that the issue and Offer for sale of securities 
has concluded as indicated in the application for the sale of newly issued shares 
submitted for approval by the commission/exchange.

<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
95A
34. In the event the corporate Finance Advisor or the Group company wishes to publish 
any article or research paper prepared by itself or on its behalf, on the securities relevant 
to it, the said corporate Finance Advisor or Group company shall comply with the 
following requirements:
(a)
 such article or research paper shall be prepared by a work unit or company that is 
engaged in the conduct of research and whose function is distinctly independent 
and separate from the function of the corporate Finance Advisor and securities 
underwriter if any for the issuance;
 Provided however, the above shall not apply to a research report that has been 
prepared by a corporate Finance Advisor/ Initial Public Offer (IPO) manager 
to a particular issue justifying the IPO price or price band and the basis and 
methodologies used to determine the IPO price/price band.
(b)
 the said article or research paper shall be based on the information contained in 
the draft prospectus except for information emanating after the closing date of the 
securities offering;
(c)
 the said article or research paper shall be prepared in a prudent and unbiased 
manner; and 
(d)
 the said article or research paper shall expressly state any conflict of interest or 
any other interest in the respective securities that a corporate Finance Advisor 
may have. In the event the said article or research paper is published prior to the 
closing date of the offer for sale of securities, investors shall be cautioned to peruse 
the prospectus thoroughly prior to making any investment decisions and such a 
statement of caution shall be in a legible print. 
 For the purpose of this rule, “Group company” shall mean:
  (i)  a company which holds twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total 
shares with voting rights of the corporate Finance Advisor; or 
 (ii)
     a company in which the corporate Finance Advisor holds twenty per 
centum (20%) or more of its total shares with voting rights; or
(iii)    a company whose shareholders hold shares in the said company and the 
corporate Finance Advisor amounting to twenty per centum (20%) or 
more of the total shares with voting rights of such company and corporate 
Finance Advisor. 
Maintenance of records 37.  A corporate Finance Advisor shall maintain the following records pertaining to clients:
(a)  all agreements entered into between the corporate Finance Advisor and the clients;
(b) all internal records and working papers as a record and evidence in performing the 
duties as corporate Finance Advisor; and
(c)  a written record of all complaints received from clients and action taken thereon 
by the corporate Finance Advisor.

<!-- page 96 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
96A
38.  All of the above records shall be retained by the corporate Finance Advisor for a period 
of six (6) years.
39.  A Corporate Finance Advisor shall ensure confidentiality of all information at all times 
relating to clients including such client’s identity and functions carried out for such 
client unless and to the extent such disclosure is required by law. 
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns 
40.
 A corporate Finance Advisor shall:
(a)  maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as 
will truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and enable 
the preparation of true and fair Income statement and statement of Financial 
Position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the 
Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka;
(b) 
 maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in 
such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c) 
 retain such accounting records or other books for a period of not less than six (6) 
years.
Duty to furnish 
information and  
co-operate with auditors 
appointed by the 
Commission
41. Where the commission having considered that it is in the  interests of the corporate 
Finance Advisor or those of its clients,  appoints an independent auditor or such other 
person or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally or in relation 
to any particular matter, it shall be the duty of such corporate Finance Advisor:
(a)
 to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the corporate 
Finance Advisor relating to its business;
(b) to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
corporate Finance Advisor relating to its business;
(c) to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of obtaining; 
and
(d)
 to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any particulars.  
42.
 A corporate Finance Advisor shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property 
or books relating to the business of the corporate Finance Advisor which are in its 
possession or under its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or 
obstructing the carrying out of any examination. 
Submission of 
information to the 
Commission
43. 
 A corporate Finance Advisor shall furnish such returns and provide such information 
relating to its business as the commission may require from time to time. 
44. 
 the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be submitted 
within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as the commission 
may specify and the corporate Finance Advisor shall comply with such requirements. 

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
97A
Compliance manual 45.  A corporate Finance Advisor shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to 
its directors and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance 
procedures and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.
Regulatory compliance 
and internal controls
46. 
 A Corporate Finance Advisor shall have a compliance officer on a full-time basis who 
shall: 
(a) 
 be an Attorney-at-Law having a minimum period of five (5) years of experience in 
matters relating to compliance or possesses any other qualification/ experience as 
specified in Rule 25 of these Rules;
(b) 
 report directly to the board of directors/board sub-committee dealing with risk of 
the corporate Finance Advisor; and
(c) 
 not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer.
47. 
 the corporate Finance Advisor shall inform the commission on the appointment 
of such compliance officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of 
appointment. In the event of a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, the 
corporate Finance Advisor shall also give notice to the commission no later than two 
(2) weeks from its effective date. 
48. The compliance officer on behalf of the Corporate Finance Advisor shall make a 
quarterly compliance report  which shall include amongst others the contents specified 
in schedule V of these rules, approved by the board of directors and signed by a 
director and the chief executive officer confirming compliance with the provisions of 
the sec Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by the 
commission from time to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, No. 06 
of 2006 where applicable and forward same to the commission, before the twentieth 
(20
th) day of the following month.
 however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for rectification 
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date on 
which the board of directors were informed as to the steps that have been taken by the 
board of directors to rectify such non-compliance. 
49. 
 employees of the corporate Finance Advisor shall obtain the prior written approval 
from the compliance officer in respect of all personal account dealings. Such dealings 
shall be conducted in a manner that will not prejudice the interests of its clients.
50. 
 A corporate Finance Advisor shall maintain procedures to ensure that complaints of 
clients relating to the conduct of its business are handled in a timely and effective 
manner. 
51. 
 A corporate Finance Advisor shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due 
diligence procedures specified by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Central 
Bank of sri Lanka where applicable from time to time.

<!-- page 98 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
98A
Notification on the 
happening of certain 
events 
52. 
 Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, these 
rules and directives, the corporate Finance Advisor shall forthwith provide written 
notice to the commission if: 
(a) 
 the corporate Finance Advisor is in the course of being wound up or otherwise 
dissolved whether within or outside sri Lanka where a receiver, liquidator or an 
equivalent person has been appointed in respect of any property of the corporate 
Finance Advisor; 
(b) 
 the corporate Finance Advisor ceases to carry on the business to which the licence 
relates;
(c) 
 the corporate Finance Advisor has failed to comply with the provisions of the 
sec Act, rules relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person of 
a Market Intermediary and the Rules specified herein or any other directive issued 
by the commission from time to time;  
(d) 
 it comes to know that any information or document furnished to the commission 
is false or misleading or there is any change in any information or document 
furnished to the commission;
(e) 
 any execution against the corporate Finance Advisor in respect of a judgment debt 
has been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part; 
(f)  the corporate Finance Advisor whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered 
into a compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise 
or scheme of arrangement that is still in operation;  
(g) 
 any director or chief executive officer has been convicted of any offence involving 
fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside of sri Lanka; 
or 
(h) 
 any director or chief executive officer of the Corporate Finance Advisor becomes 
an undischarged bankrupt.  
Advertisements 53. 
 A corporate Finance Advisor shall ensure that the content in advertisements promoting 
its services is accurate, complete and is not misleading.
54. 
 A corporate Finance Advisor shall submit a copy of all advertisements proposed 
to be published, for the perusal of the commission at least one (1) week prior to its 
publication in the media.
Cancellation or 
suspension of a licence
55. 
 the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to a corporate Finance Advisor 
shall be governed by the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.
Commencement of 
operations
56. 
 If the corporate Finance Advisor fails to commence its business operations no later 
than six (6) months after the issue of the licence, the licence will cease to be valid.

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
99A
Licence of a Corporate 
Finance Advisor deemed 
to be revoked
57. 
 A licence of a corporate Finance Advisor shall be deemed to be revoked if the company 
to whom a licence has been assigned is wound up or otherwise dissolved. 
Ceasing of operations 
and surrender of a 
licence
58.
 In the event a corporate Finance Advisor decides to cease its business operations as a 
corporate Finance Advisor, it shall: 
(a) 
 submit to the commission within seven (7) working days from the date of the 
decision of the board of directors to cease business operations together with a 
certified extract of the board resolution together with a status report of its Clients 
as at that date and measures to mitigate possible impacts on the client;   
(b) 
 within fourteen (14) working days of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations, communicate to its clients in writing its decision to 
cease operations as a corporate Finance Advisor;
(c) 
 within twenty-one (21) working days of the decision of the board of directors to 
cease business operations publish a notice in all three (3) languages in national 
newspapers announcing its decision to cease business operations as a corporate 
Finance Advisor; and
(d) 
 the corporate Finance Advisor shall keep the commission informed in writing 
upon the completion of the steps (b) and (c) mentioned above.
59. 
 the corporate Finance Advisor shall complete the task as stated in rule 59 hereof and 
resolve any complaints by clients within a period of not more than three (3) months 
from the date of the decision of the board of directors to cease business operations 
(or any extended period permitted by the commission in writing) and submit to the 
commission a declaration from the board of directors of the corporate Finance Advisor 
in the form of an affidavit confirming that:
(a) 
 all of its agreements entered into with clients have been terminated;
 
(b)  together with the affidavit as stated in Rule 59 hereof, the Corporate Finance 
Advisor shall return the licence to the commission;
(c)  all outstanding amounts to clients if any have been settled upon obtaining their 
consent;
(d)  the corporate Finance Advisor has published the paper notice; and
(e)  there are no pending complaints in relation to the operations of the corporate 
Finance Advisor.
60. 
 the surrender of a licence shall not take effect until the commission informs the 
corporate Finance Advisor in writing that such surrender has been accepted upon 
satisfying itself that all steps with regard to the cessation of operations have been duly 
satisfied in terms of these Rules.

<!-- page 100 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
100A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant entity) 
being duly incorporated and having our registered office/ principal place of business at ….................(address)...............….. 
hereby undertake and agree:
1. 
 to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2.
 to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant entity by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dishonesty, 
misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements made and information provided 
along with the application are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge.  
Given under the common seal of the entity on this ….................. day of ….......................... in the presence of
……………………….
(Name) 
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this …............................. day of …...............................
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:  Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority.

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
101A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary unless that individual is a fit 
and proper person to hold such office in such entity as morefully described in 
these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and employees 
dealing with cli8ents, making investment decisions on behalf of unit holders, 
shall submit an affidavit to the Commission affirming that such person is not 
subject to any of the infirmities morefully described in these Rules prior to 
such individual being appointed and at the time a market Intermediary seeks a 
licence or a renewal of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer of a Market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors 
of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office 
of a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately 
notify the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not:
(a)   be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 102 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
102A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position 
or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial 
fraud by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
Financial soundness 7.   the Key management Person and persons and employees dealing with clients 
shall not:
(a)   have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)   have been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad that 
remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)  have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
103A
i.   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.   has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with 
its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had assets 
sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of 
law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall:
(a)    not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)   
 have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 104 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
104A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.  
 I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities 
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.

<!-- page 105 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
105A
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or 
been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having ac-
cepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her signa-
ture at …………. on 
this …………… dayof…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable
 

<!-- page 106 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
106A
SCHEDULE IV
Minimum Contents of a Compliance Manual
1.  Conflicts of Interest:
(a)   an internal control network to ensure that there will be no conflict of interest in termns of its corporate finance 
advisory functions; 
(b)  procedures to ensure its independence from the parties it serves including related parties and disclose actual 
and potential conflicts of interest in a clear, complete, timely, concise and specific manner and submit all such 
information; and
(c)   reporting lines for corporate Finance Advisor staff and their  remuneration arrangements should be structured to 
eliminate or effectively manage actual and potential conflicts of interest.
2.  corporate Governance:
(a)   good business practices and just and fair principles in the conduct of its business; 
(b)  compliance requirements contained in any code or Best Practices introduced by the commission in respect of 
corporate Finance Advisors ;
(c)  procedure to ensure that the directors and staff of a corporate Finance Advisor act with due diligence and a 
reasonable degree of care in carrying out their functions; and
(d) procedures to establish, maintain and implement written policies, controls and procedures to ensure that  
non - public information acquired during the corporate finance advisory process is only used for the purpose of 
performing such duties and fuctions and prevent the misuse of non-public information.
3.  risk management:
(a)  sound risk management policies and processes.

<!-- page 107 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
107A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.  Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a)  securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b)  rules issued by the commission;
(c)  rules of an exchange (as applicable); and
(d)  rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2.  If not:
(a)  give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b)  action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c)  the outcome. 
3.  Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
      If so:
(a)  the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b)  outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/5

<!-- page 108 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
108A
RULES APPLICABLE TO UNDERWRITERS
the securItIes ANd eXchANGe cOmmIssION OF srI LANKA Act, NO. 19 OF 2021 
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021. 
 Viraj  Dayaratne PC
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo, 
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to underwriters.
General 
interpretation
1. 
 The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the same meaning assigned 
to them in the said Act:
 “client” means a person who is desirous of selling or offering for sale securities listed on a 
licensed exchange and has signed an underwriting agreement with an underwriter;
 “commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka established in 
terms of the sec Act;
 “Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall include 
alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and persons having 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of a 
company/entity either directly or indirectly;
 “Liquid capital” means unencumbered cash or investments which can be readily converted 
to cash such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with maturity of less than three 
months (3), commercial papers which are endorsed or guaranteed by a licensed commercial 
bank or licensed specialized bank with a term to maturity of less than three (3) months and 
government issued securities with a term to maturity of one year (1) or less or any other 
form of instruments as determined by the commission; 

<!-- page 109 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
109A
 “sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 
2021;
 “shareholders’ Funds” mean the amount of equity of the entity, which belongs to the 
shareholders of the entity;
 “Underwriter” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC Act;
Applicability 2.  the rules set out herein shall apply to underwriters licensed under the sec Act.
3.  every underwriter shall comply with: 
(a) the rules set out herein and any amendments made thereto;
(b)  provisions of the sec Act;
(c)  directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d)  rules issued by the commission on the Fitness and Propriety of a Key management 
Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated out in schedule II of these rules.
Requirement for a 
licence
4. 
 No entity shall engage in the function of an Underwriter without having first obtained a 
licence from the commission.
5. 
 the period of validity of a licence granted to an underwriter shall be twelve (12) months. 
Procedure to obtain 
a licence
6.
 The grant of a licence shall be a two (2) stage process. An applicant may in the first instance 
apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out in (a) hereof and 
after having obtained in-principle approval may thereafter apply for final approval upon 
satisfying the requirements as set out in (b) hereof:
(a) 
 In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the commission:
(i) 
  a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on the 
website of the commission along with the supporting documents mentioned 
therein;
(ii)   documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of an 
underwriter;
(iii) 
 a declaration by the applicant as per the specimen in schedule I of these rules;  
(iv)  a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of these 
rules;
(v) 
  documentation in support of measures taken to acquire an information 
processing system as stated in rule 24 of these rules;

<!-- page 110 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
110A
(vi)  documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human resources 
to effectively discharge the obligations in keeping with the identified 
organizational structure of the applicant; and
(vii) 
 the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval specified 
by way of regulations made by the minister from time to time.
(b) 
 No later than (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, the applicant 
shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following documents as proof 
thereof in order to obtain the licence:
(i)  
 confirmation from the auditor that applicant has met the requirements as spelt out 
in rule 19 (a) and (b) of these rules;
(ii)  
 declarations by Key management Persons and persons dealing with clients 
relating to their fitness and propriety to hold such office in terms of the Fitness 
and Propriety of a Key management Person of a market Intermediary as 
stipulated in schedule II of these rules. such declaration shall be in the form of 
an affidavit prepared in accordance with the specimen provided in Schedule III 
of these rules;
(iii)  
 a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Underwriter 
confirming the implementation of an information processing system as stated in 
rule 24 of these rules;
(iv)  
 a confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the Underwriter 
confirming the recruitment of adequate human resources along with their names 
and designations;
(v)  
 the licence fee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time to 
time.
7.  
 upon obtaining the licence to function as an underwriter under the sec Act, the persons 
dealing with clients shall follow continuous Professional development (cPd) programmes 
conducted by the commission annually on rules and other applicable regulations. 
8.  
 It shall be the duty of the underwriter to notify the commission and obtain its prior consent 
of any change in particulars specified in an application to be licensed as an Underwriter.
9.   the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as an underwriter on any 
of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Renewal of a 
licence
10.
  An underwriter shall submit an application for renewal three (3) months prior to the expiry 
of the licence along with the renewal fee.
11. 
 An application for renewal shall be in the format provided by the commission on its website 
along with the supporting documents mentioned therein.
12.  Any underwriter who fails to submit an application for renewal within the aforesaid time 
period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of regulations made by the minister 
from time to time.

<!-- page 111 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
111A
13.  In the event the licence of an underwriter expires as a result of an underwriter failing 
to take steps to renew it, the provisions contained in rule 63 with regard to cessation of 
operations shall apply. 
14.  An underwriter which has neither taken steps to cease its business operations as an 
underwriter nor taken steps to renew its licence in terms of these rules shall not be entitled 
to the grant of a new licence as an underwriter. 
15. 
 This disqualification shall also apply to a company whose board of directors comprises of 
any individual(s) who functioned as a director(s) of the company which has failed to have 
its licence renewed as aforesaid.
16.
 It shall be the duty of the underwriter to notify the commission and obtain its prior consent 
of any change in particulars contained in an application for the renewal of a licence as an 
underwriter.
17. 
 the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as an 
underwriter on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Licensing fee 18.  An underwriter shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations made by 
the minister from time to time.
Minimum financial 
requirements and 
submission of 
reports
19. 
 An underwriter shall:
(a)  at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ Funds as determined by the commission 
from time to time;
(b)   at all times, maintain minimum Liquid capital as determined by the commission from 
time to time;
(c)   inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ Funds and/or Liquid capital falls 
below the requirement as stipulated in rule 19 (a) and (b) above;
(d)   not carry on its activities as an Underwriter if the minimum financial requirements as 
determined by the commission are not met, unless the prior written approval of the 
commission is obtained.
 
 Provided however if an underwriter is regulated as a licensed or registered Financial 
Institution by the central Bank of sri Lanka, the above requirements shall not apply.
20.  An underwriter shall provide the information as set out below to the commission:
(a)  
 financial statements prepared quarterly in conformity with the Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards signed by a director and the chief executive officer before the twentieth 
(20
th) day of the following month;
(b)   a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance with the 
sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards within a period of four (4) months from the close of each financial year.
21.  An underwriter shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s report or any 
additional period of time permitted by the Commission, take steps to rectify the deficiencies 
if any, made out in the auditor’s report, in so far as they relate to the function of underwriting.

<!-- page 112 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
112A
Change in 
shareholding of an 
Underwriter 
22.  A change in the shareholding of twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total shareholding 
of an underwriter shall be made only with prior written consent of the commission.
      Provided however if the underwriter is a listed public company this requirement shall not 
apply.  
23. An underwriter shall keep the commission informed in writing of the percentage holdings 
in it/by it, its parent/owning company(s), subsidiary company(s), associate company(s) and 
partnership(s) and of shareholders holding more than twenty per centum (20%) or more of 
its equity.
Infrastructure 
and related 
requirements
24. An underwriter shall at all times:
(a) maintain proper systems including information technology processes and human 
resources suitable and adequate to support the proper conduct of its business as an 
underwriter;
(b) ensure that an effective system of functional barriers is in place to prevent the flow of 
information that may be confidential and/or price sensitive between the functions; and
(c) have appropriate information recording and retrieval systems and maintain such 
information for inspection by the commission.
25. the underwriter shall not be entitled to outsource any part of its work, which has a direct 
bearing on the act of underwriting. 
26. the underwriter shall enter into a written agreement with the party to whom any work is 
outsourced. such agreement shall contain an undertaking from the party to whom any work 
is outsourced that they will comply with the laws, rules and directives that the underwriter 
is bound to follow. 
Qualifications 
and experience of 
those dealing with 
Clients
27. 
 Any person who on behalf of an underwriter is involved in the function of underwriting for 
and on behalf of a client and an individual who wishes to deal with clients shall possess 
the qualifications set out in subsection (a) and the experience set out in subsection (b) or 
possess the experience set out in subsection (c):
 
  
(a) (i)    a degree from a recognized university in the fields of Finance, Accountancy, 
Business Administration, commerce or economics;
(ii)  
 member/Associate of a professional body of Accountants recognized by the 
International Federation of Accountants;
(iii)   chartered Financial Analyst;
(iv)  
 Associate of the chartered Institute of Bankers;
(v)   Associate of the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka;
(vi)   Associate of the chartered Institute for securities and Investments;
(vii)    any other professional and/or academic qualification acceptable to the Commission; 
and
(b)   experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of two (2) years. 
the commission shall consider the relevance, nature, the scope and experience in 
determining such adequacy;
            or
(c)   experience in the financial/securities market for a minimum period of seven (7) years. 
the commission shall consider relevance, nature, scope and experience gained in 
determining its adequacy.  

<!-- page 113 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
113A
Requirement for a 
minimum number 
of persons to deal 
with Clients
28.  The Underwriter shall ensure that a minimum of two (2) persons possessing qualifications 
and/or experience set out in these rules are employed to deal with clients.
 
29. The Commission may direct the Underwriter to vary the number of such qualified persons 
on account of the volume of business proposed to be undertaken or currently undertaken 
by such underwriter.
Commission 
approval to engage 
in other businesses
30. 
 An underwriter shall disclose to the commission all other business activities it is engaged 
in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the commission in writing prior to 
engaging in any other business activity after obtaining a licence from the commission.
31. 
 An underwriter shall not engage in any other business which in the view of the commission 
creates a conflict of interest unless prior written approval of the Commission is obtained.
32. 
 In the conduct of any such other business activity, the underwriter shall ensure that proper 
processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different functions pertaining to 
such businesses. 
 
 Provided however, if such Underwriter is a licensed or a registered financial institution 
regulated by the central Bank of sri Lanka, there shall be no requirement for such an 
underwriter to obtain the approval of the commission to carry out such activities. 
Approval of the 
Commission for 
underwriting 
obligations
33. 
 An underwriter shall obtain the approval of the commission in writing on a case-by-case 
basis for any underwriting obligation prior to entering into any underwriting agreement.
34. 
 In considering the grant of approval for the purpose of rule 33 above, the commission 
shall require the Underwriter to demonstrate its financial capacity to meet a particular 
underwriting obligation.
35. 
 Approval of the Commission may be conditional on the Underwriter fulfilling further 
requirements as specified by the Commission as may be deemed to be relevant to the 
commission having regard to a particular case.
Written 
underwriting 
agreement 
and material 
information
36. 
 An underwriter shall execute a written underwriting agreement prior to carrying out any 
business for and on behalf of a client containing all the terms and conditions agreed upon 
by and between itself and the client.
37. An underwriter shall ensure that the underwriting agreement entered into is in a language 
mutually agreed upon by the parties. subsequent amendments to the underwriting 
agreement, if any, shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties and be in writing.
38. 
 An underwriter shall:
(a)   in the event of being called upon to subscribe to the securities underwritten pursuant to 
an underwriting agreement, subscribe such securities within such time as specified in 
the underwriting agreement but shall not exceed fifteen (15) days starting from the date 
of issue of such information/notice/invitation by the issuer or offeror, as the case may 
be;
(b)  
 sell the securities subscribed pursuant to an underwriting agreement in the secondary 
market or to persons other than the directors, sponsors and associates of the issuer or 
the offeror as the case may be, within a period of not more than two (2) years from 
the date of such subscription or in such time period extended by the commission on 
written request by the underwriter.

<!-- page 114 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
114A
Maintenance of 
records
39.  An underwriter shall maintain the following records pertaining to clients:
(a)  all underwriting agreements entered into between the underwriter and the clients;
(b)  records of all transactions relating to the clients; and
(c)  a written record of all complaints received from clients and action taken thereon by the 
underwriter.
40.  All of the above records shall be retained by the underwriter for a period of six (6) years.
41. All of the above records pertaining to clients whose underwriting agreements have been 
terminated shall be retained by the underwriter for a period of six (6) years from the date 
of such termination.
42. 
 An Underwriter shall ensure confidentiality of all information relating to Clients including 
such Client’s identity, their beneficial owner and transactions carried out for such Client, 
unless and to the extent such disclosure is required by law.
Keeping of books 
and furnishing of 
returns 
43. 
 An underwriter shall:
(a)  maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as will 
truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and enable the 
preparation of a true and fair Income statement and a statement of Financial Position in 
keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the Institute of chartered 
Accountants of sri Lanka; 
(b) 
 maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in such 
manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c)  
 retain such accounting records and other books for a period of not less than six (6) 
years. 
Duty to furnish 
information and 
co-operate with 
auditors appointed 
by the Commission
44. Where the commission having considered that it is in the interests of the underwriter or 
those of its clients, appoints an independent auditor or such other person or a body of 
persons to examine, audit and report either generally or in relation to any particular matter, 
it shall be the duty of such underwriter:
(a)  
 to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the underwriter 
relating to its business;
(b)  to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
underwriter relating to its business;
(c)  to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of obtaining; and
(d)  to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any particulars.  
45. 
 An underwriter shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books relating 
to the business of the underwriter which are in its possession or under its control with 
the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the carrying out of any 
examination.

<!-- page 115 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
115A
Submission of 
information to the 
Commission
46. 
 An underwriter shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating to its 
business as the commission may require from time to time.
47. 
 the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be submitted 
within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as the commission may 
specify and the underwriter shall comply with such requirements.
48. 
 the underwriter shall keep the commission informed in writing of  the percentages of 
holdings in it/ by it, its parent/owning company(s), subsidiary company(s), associated 
company(s) and partnership(s) and of shareholders holding more than twenty per centum 
(20%) or more of its equity.
Compliance 
manual
49. 
 An underwriter shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its directors and 
employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance procedures and 
practices as set in schedule IV of these rules. 
50. 
 An underwriter and its directors shall be responsible for due compliance with such internal 
compliance manual.
Regulatory 
compliance and 
internal controls
51.  An Underwriter shall have a compliance officer employed by the Underwriter on a full-time 
basis who shall:
(a) be an Attorney-at-Law having a minimum period of five (5) years of experience in 
matters relating to compliance or possesses any other qualification/ experience as 
specified in Rule 27 of these Rules;
(b) report directly to the board of directors/board sub-committee dealing with risk of the 
underwriter; and 
(c) not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer.
52. 
 the underwriter shall inform the commission on the appointment of such compliance 
officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of appointment. In the event of 
a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, the Underwriter shall also give notice to 
the commission no later than two (2) weeks from its effective date.
53. 
 The compliance officer on behalf of the Underwriter shall make a quarterly compliance 
report which shall include amongst others the contents specified in Schedule V of these 
rules, approved by the board of directors and signed by a director and the chief executive 
officer confirming compliance with the provisions of the SEC Act, the criteria set out 
herein, any other rules or directives issued by the commission from time to time and the 
Financial transactions reporting Act, No. 06 of 2006 where applicable and forward same 
to the commission, before the twentieth (20
th) day of the following month.
  However, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance officer 
shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for rectification and inform 
the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date on which the board 
of directors were informed as to the steps that have been taken by the board of directors to 
rectify such non-compliance.

<!-- page 116 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
116A
 54.  employees of the underwriter shall obtain the prior written approval from the compliance 
officer in respect of all personal account dealings. Such dealings shall be conducted in a 
manner that will not prejudice the interests of its clients.
55.  An underwriter shall maintain procedures to ensure that complaints of clients relating to 
the conduct of its business are handled in a timely and effective manner.
56. 
 An underwriter shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence procedures 
specified by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka where 
applicable from time to time.
Operational 
matters
57. 
 An underwriter shall not:
a)  undertake underwritings exceeding five (5) times its equity (including unrealized gain 
and revaluation surplus) at any time;
b)  enter into any buy-back or repurchase arrangement with the issuer or offeror or any 
other person with respect to the securities underwritten by it;
c) 
 derive any undue benefits directly or indirectly, from any underwriting other than the 
commission payable to it under the underwriting agreement;and/or
d) 
 willfully make false statement or conceal any material fact in any document, report or 
paper furnished to the commission.
Notification on 
the happening of 
certain events
58. 
 Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, these rules or 
directives, the underwriter shall forthwith provide written notice to the commission if:
(a) 
 the underwriter is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved whether 
within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator or an equivalent person has 
been appointed in respect of any property of the underwriter;
(b)  the underwriter ceases to carry on the business to which the licence relates; 
(c)  the underwriter has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, rules relating 
to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person of a market Intermediary and 
the Rules specified herein or any other directive issued by the Commission from time 
to time; 
(d) 
 it comes to know that any information or document furnished to the commission is 
false or misleading; or there is any change in any information or document furnished to 
the commission;
(e) 
 any execution against the underwriter in respect of a judgment debt has been returned 
unsatisfied in whole or in part; 
(f) 
 the underwriter whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a compromise or 
scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise or scheme of arrangement 
that is still in operation; 
(g) 
 any director, or the chief executive officer has been convicted of any offence involving 
fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside of sri Lanka; or 
(h) 
 any director or the chief executive officer of the Underwriter becomes an undischarged 
bankrupt.

<!-- page 117 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
117A
Advertisements 59.  An underwriter shall ensure that the content in advertisements promoting its services is 
accurate, complete and is not misleading.
60.  An underwriter shall submit a copy of all advertisements proposed to be published, for the 
perusal of the commission at least one (1) week prior to its publication in the media.
Cancellation or 
suspension of a 
licence
61. 
 the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to an underwriter shall be governed by 
the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.
License of an 
Underwriter 
deemed to be 
revoked
62. 
 A licence of an underwriter shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to whom a 
licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved. 
Ceasing of 
operations and 
surrender of a 
licence
63. 
 In the event an underwriter decides to cease its business operations as an underwriter, it 
shall:
(a)  submit to the commission within seven (7) working days from the date of the decision 
of the board of directors to cease business operations together with a certified extract of 
the board resolution and a status report of its clients as at that date;   
(b) 
 within fourteen (14) working days of the decision of the board of directors to cease 
business operations, communicate to its clients in writing its decision to cease 
operations as an underwriter and the procedure to be followed by the clients with 
regard to their intention to transfer to any other underwriter or return of any funds of 
the Client in the custody of the Underwriter setting out specific timelines;
(c) 
 within twenty one (21) working days of the decision of the board of directors to cease 
business operations, publish a notice in all three (3) languages in national newspapers 
announcing its decision to cease business operations as an underwriter and indicating 
a time period within which its clients are required to respond regarding their intention 
to transfer to any other underwriter or return of any funds of the client in the custody 
of the Underwriter setting out specific time lines and to call upon them to intimate if 
there are any complaints;
(d) 
 the underwriter shall keep the commission informed in writing upon the completion 
of the steps (b) and (c) mentioned above.
64. 
 the underwriter shall complete the tasks of transferring their portfolios to any other 
underwriter/returning of any funds of the client in the custody of the underwriter and 
resolving any complaints within a period of not more than three (3) months from the date of 
the decision of the board of directors to cease business operations (or any extended period 
permitted by the commission in writing) and submit to the commission a declaration from 
the board of directors of the Underwriter in the form of an affidavit confirming that:
(a) 
 all of its underwriting agreements entered into with clients have been terminated;
(b)  together with the affidavit as stated in Rule 64 hereof, the Underwriter shall return the 
licence to the commission;
(c) 
 all outstanding amounts to clients if any have been returned or has transferred the 
portfolio balances of the respective clients to any other underwriter upon obtaining 
their consent;
(d) 
 the underwriter has published the paper notice;
(e)  there are no pending complaints in relation to the operations of the underwriter.
65.  the surrender of a licence shall not take effect until the commission informs the underwriter 
in writing that such surrender has been accepted upon satisfying itself that all steps with 
regard to the cessation of operations have been duly satisfied in terms of these Rules. 

<!-- page 118 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
118A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant 
entity) being duly incorporated and having our registered office/ principal place of business at ...… (address) ..….. 
hereby undertake and agree:
1. 
 to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2.
 to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant entity by a court of law in Sri Lanka or 
abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, 
deceit, dishonesty, misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements made and 
information provided along with the application for the grant /renewal of a licence are true and accurate to the best of 
our knowledge.  
Given under the common seal of the entity on this  ….  day of  ….  in the presence of
……………………….
(Name) 
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this …............. day of …..............
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:  Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority.

<!-- page 119 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
119A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary unless that individual is a fit 
and proper person to hold such office in such entity as morefully described in 
these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and employees 
dealing with Clients shall submit an affidavit to the Commission affirming 
that such person is not subject to any of the infirmities morefully described in 
these rules prior to such individual being appointed and at the time market 
Intermediary seeks a licence or a renewal of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer of a Market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors 
of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office 
of a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately 
notify the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not:
(a)   be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 120 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
120A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position 
or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial 
fraud by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
Financial soundness 7.   the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not:
(a)   have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)   have been subject to any judgement debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)   have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:

<!-- page 121 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
121A
i.      has been subject to any judgement debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.    has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with 
its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had assets 
sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of 
law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall:
(a)    not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)   
 have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 122 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
122A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.  
 I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities 
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.

<!-- page 123 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
123A
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or been 
involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having 
accepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her 
signature at …………. on 
this …………… dayof…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable
 

<!-- page 124 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
124A
SCHEDULE IV
Minimum Contents of a Compliance Manual
1.  Conflicts of Interest :
(a)   an effective internal control framework to prevent abuse or detect inappropriate practices or conflicts of interest 
between proprietary transactions, employees’ transactions and client’s transactions; 
         Provided that, in the event such conflict cannot be avoided there shall be full disclosure thereof to its Cliens and 
the underwriter shall obtain consent of the trustee in writing prior to carrying out the material transaction.
(b)   procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities that give rise 
to a risk of a conflict of interest;
(c)   procedures to ensure that key duties and functions of the front office and back office are clearly segregated to 
avoid any conflicts of interest;
(d)   procedures for the prevention or limitation of any person from exercising inappropriate influence over the manner 
in which a relevant person carries out services or activities; 
(e)   a mechanism to monitor and identify non-compliance with the conflicts of interest policy and steps to address 
such non-compliance in an appropriate and in a timely manner; 
(f)   procedures to minimize and manage any conflicts of interest that may arise in carrying out a combination of 
regulated activities.
2.  corporate Governance:
(a)  good business practices and just and fair principles in the conduct of its business; 
(b)  compliance requirements contained in any code or Best Practices introduced by the commission in respect of 
underwriters;
(c)  an effective complaint handling process.
3.  risk management:
(a)  sound risk management policies and processes.

<!-- page 125 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
125A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.  Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a)  securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b)  rules issued by the commission;
(c)  rules of an exchange; and
(d)  rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2. If not:
(a)  give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b)  action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c)  the outcome. 
3. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
If so:
(a)  the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b)  outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/6

<!-- page 126 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
126A
 RULES APPLICABLE TO STOCK  BROKERS
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA ACT, NO. 19 OF 2021 
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
 Viraj Dayaratne PC
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo,
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to stock Brokers.
General interpretation 1.  The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the 
same meaning assigned to them in the said Act:
 
 “Client” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 109 of the SEC Act;
  “commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
  “Exchange” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC Act;
  “Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall 
include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and 
persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling 
the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
 
 “sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 
19 of 2021;
  “Securities” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC Act;
  “securities Account” means an account opened in a central  depository;
  “Stock Broker” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC 
Act;
 
 “Trading Participant” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the 
sec Act.

<!-- page 127 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
127A
Applicability 2.  the rules set out herein shall apply to stock Brokers licensed under the sec Act.
3.  every stock Broker shall comply with: 
(a)  the rules set out herein and any amendments made thereto; 
(b)  provisions of the sec Act;
(c)  directives issued from time to time by the commission;
(d)  rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of 
these rules; and 
(e)  the trading Participant rules of an exchange approved by the commission.
Requirement for a licence 4.  No entity shall engage in the function of a Stock Broker without having first 
obtained a licence from the commission.
5. 
 the period of validity of a licence granted to a stock Broker shall be twelve (12) 
months. 
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
6. 
 the grant of a licence to a stock Broker shall be a two (2) stage process. An 
applicant may in the first instance apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying 
the requirements as set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle 
approval may thereafter apply for final approval upon satisfying the requirements 
as set out in (b) hereof:
(a) 
 In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the 
commission:
i.  a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided 
on the website of the commission along with the supporting documents 
mentioned therein;
ii. 
 confirmation from the Exchange on the grant of provisional Trading 
Participant status;
iii. 
 a declaration by the applicant as per the specimen in schedule I of these 
rules; 
iv. 
 a declaration by directors relating to their fitness and propriety to hold 
such office in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management 
Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of these 
Rules. Such declaration shall be in the form of an affidavit prepared in 
accordance with the specimen provided in schedule III of these rules;
v. 
 the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval 
specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time to time. 

<!-- page 128 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
128A
(b)  No later than six (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, 
the applicant shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following 
documents as proof thereof in order to obtain the licence:
i. 
 written confirmation from the Exchange confirming that the applicant has 
satisfied all entry requirements stipulated in the Rules of the Exchange 
to be admitted as a trading Participant of the exchange and therefore 
a recommendation that the applicant be granted a licence as a stock 
Broker;
ii. 
 declarations by Key management Persons (excluding directors) and 
employees dealing with Clients relating to their fitness and propriety 
to hold such office in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule 
II of these Rules. Such declaration shall be in the form of an affidavit 
prepared in accordance with the specimen provided in schedule III of 
these rules;
iii. 
 a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of 
these rules; 
iv.  the licence fee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from 
time to time; and
v. 
 any other information that the commission may require the applicant to 
submit in the evaluation of the application for the licence.
7.  It shall be the duty of the stock Broker to notify the commission and obtain its prior 
consent for any change in particulars contained in an application to be licensed as 
a stock Broker.
8. 
 the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as a stock Broker 
on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Renewal of a licence 9.  A stock Broker shall submit an application for renewal of a licence three (3) 
months prior to the expiry of the licence along with the renewal fee.
10. 
 An application for renewal shall be in the format provided by the commission on 
its website along with the supporting documents mentioned therein.
11. 
 Any stock Broker who fails to submit an application for renewal within the 
aforesaid time period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.
12. 
 It shall be the duty of the stock Broker to notify the commission and obtain its 
prior consent  of any change in particulars contained in an application for the 
renewal of licence as a stock Broker.
13. 
 the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as a 
stock Broker on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.

<!-- page 129 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
129A
Licensing fee 14.  A stock Broker shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.  
Minimum financial  
requirements and  
submission of reports
15. 
 A stock Broker shall:
(a)  at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ funds as determined by the 
exchange of which it is a trading Participant;
(b)  at all times, maintain minimum liquid capital as determined by the exchange 
of which it is a trading Participant;
(c) 
 at all times maintain minimum capital Adequacy requirements as determined 
by the exchange of which it is a trading Participant;
(d) 
 inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ funds, liquid capital and/
or the minimum capital Adequacy requirements fall below the requirement 
stipulated in the rules of the exchange of which it is a trading Participant; 
and
(e)  not carry on its activities as a Stock Broker if the minimum financial 
requirements as determined in the rules of the exchange of which it is a 
trading Participant are not met, unless the prior written approval of the 
commission is obtained.
16. 
 A stock Broker shall provide the information as set out below to the commission:
(a)  financial statements prepared monthly as determined by the Exchange of 
which it is a trading Participant within twenty (20) days from the end of the 
particular month signed by a director and the chief executive officer of such 
stock Broker; and 
(b) 
 a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance 
with the sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the 
sri Lanka Auditing standards within a period of four (4) months from the close 
of each financial year.
17. 
 A stockbroker shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s report 
or any additional period of time permitted by the commission, take steps to rectify 
the deficiencies if any, made out in the auditor’s report.
Change in shareholding of a 
Stock Broker 
18. 
 A change in the shareholding of twenty per centum (20%) or more of the total 
shareholding of a stock Broker shall be made only with the prior written consent 
of the commission.
Extension of credit 19. 
 A stock Broker may extend credit to its clients in accordance with the rules of an 
exchange of which it is a trading Participant. 
Infrastructure and related 
requirements
20. 
 A stock Broker shall at all times ensure that the requirements with regard to 
infrastructure and related requirements of an exchange of which it is a trading 
Participant are complied with and in any event ensure that steps are taken to:

<!-- page 130 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
130A
(a)  maintain proper systems including an order management system, a back office 
system and  processes relating to information technology;
(b)  maintain adequate human resources to support the proper conduct of its 
business as a stock Broker;
(c) 
 ensure that an effective system of functional barriers is in place to prevent the 
flow of information that may be confidential and/or price sensitive between 
the functions; and
(d) 
 have appropriate information recording and retrieval systems and maintain 
such information for inspection by the commission.
21. 
 A stock Broker shall not be entitled to outsource its core function to any other 
party. however, if any other function other than the core function of the stock 
Broker is to be outsourced, the stock Broker shall enter into a written agreement 
with the party to whom any work is outsourced. such agreement shall contain an 
undertaking from the party to whom any work is outsourced that they shall comply 
with the laws, rules and directives that the stock Broker is bound to follow.
Employees dealing with 
Clients
22. 
 A stock Broker shall ensure that a minimum of three (3) persons possessing the 
qualifications and/or experience as set out in the Rules of an Exchange of which 
the stock Broker is a trading Participant are employed to deal with clients.
23. 
 Any person employed by a stock Broker to deal with clients on its behalf shall 
be a Registered Investment Advisor (RIA) certified by the Commission and shall 
possess any other qualifications and/or experience stipulated in the Rules of an 
exchange of which the stock Broker is a trading Participant. 
24. 
 Any person employed by a stock Broker to deal with clients shall follow 
continuous Professional development (cPd) programmes conducted by the 
commission annually on rules and other applicable regulations.
25. 
 A stock Broker shall ensure that any person employed to deal with clients shall 
comply with rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of 
a Key management Person of a market Intermediary.  
26. 
 Persons employed to deal with clients in the capacity of a stock Broker shall not 
deal with clients of any other licensed/ approved function of the entity.
27.  the commission may direct the stock Broker to vary the minimum number of 
such qualified persons to deal with Clients on account of the volume of business 
proposed to be undertaken or currently undertaken by such stock Broker.
Commission approval to 
engage in other business
28. 
 A stock Broker shall not engage in any other business activity which is not 
regulated by the commission unless the prior written approval of the commission 
is obtained.
Written agreement and 
material information
29. 
 A stock Broker shall execute a written agreement with each client prior to 
carrying out any business for and on behalf of a client containing all the terms and 
conditions agreed to by and between itself and the client.

<!-- page 131 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
131A
30.  the client agreement shall include a written risk disclosure statement to the effect 
that the client is aware of the risk associated with the trading in securities. 
31.  A stockbroker shall ensure that the agreement entered into is in a language mutually 
agreed upon by the parties. the subsequent amendments to the agreement, if any, 
shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties and be in writing.
Duty in making  
recommendations
32. 
 A stock Broker shall at all times act in compliance with the duty that has been cast 
by section 112 of the sec Act, in making recommendations to clients. 
Trading in Securities 33. 
 When trading in securities a stock Broker shall act in compliance with the 
provisions contained in section 106 of the sec Act.
Restricted Securities 34. 
 A stock Broker shall ensure that its employees do not trade in securities which are 
subject to financial advice or research, during such period that the Stock Broker 
holds material non-public information relating to such security or issuer of such 
security. 
Lending and borrowing of 
Securities 
35. 
 In lending and borrowing of securities a stock Broker shall act in compliance with 
the provisions contained in section 107 of the sec Act. 
Segregation of Client funds 36. 
 A stock Broker shall with regard to the monies and assets of a client at all times 
ensure that it acts in compliance with the provisions contained in section 110 of 
the sec Act and the provisions contained in the rules of an exchange of which it 
is a trading Participant in that regard.
Appointment of agents 37. 
 If any person is to act as an agent or hold himself out as acting as an agent of a 
stock Broker, the stock Broker shall:
(a) 
 obtain approval from the exchange of which the stock Broker is a trading 
Participant; or
(b)  obtain approval of the commission.
Maintenance of records 38.  A stock Broker shall maintain the records as required under the trading Participant 
rules of the exchange of which it is a trading Participant and in any event maintain 
the following records:
(a)  all  documents  pertaining to the opening and maintenance of a securities 
Account and all agreements entered into between the stock Broker and the 
clients;
(b) 
 trade information and any obligations arising out of such trades;
(c)  trade confirmation notes;
(d)  notifications pertaining to partially and/or fully unsettled trades;
(e)  books of accounts;
(f)  records of the disaster recovery and business continuity plans;
(g)  records pertaining to human resources; and
(h)  a comprehensive written record of all complaints received from clients and 
action taken thereon by the stock Broker.

<!-- page 132 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
132A
Maintenance of records 39.  All of the above records shall be retained by the stock Broker for a period of six 
(6) years.
40.  All of the above records pertaining to clients whose agreements have been 
terminated shall be retained by the stock Broker for a period of six (6) years from 
the date of such termination.
41.  A Stock Broker shall ensure confidentiality of all information relating to Clients 
including such Client’s identity, their beneficial owner and transactions carried out 
for such client, unless and to the extent such disclosure is required by law.
Keeping of books and  
furnishing of returns 
42. 
 A stock Broker shall:
(a)  maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books 
as will truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and 
enable the preparation of a true and fair Income statement and a statement 
of Financial Position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards 
adopted by the Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka; 
(b) 
 maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books 
in such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c) 
 retain such accounting records or other books for a period of not less than six 
(6) years.  
Duty to furnish  
information and co-operate 
with auditors appointed by 
the Commission
43. 
 Where the commission having considered that it is in the  interest of the stock 
Broker or those of its clients,  appoints an independent auditor or such other person 
or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally or in relation to 
any particular matter, it shall be the duty of such stock Broker:
(a) 
 to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the stock 
Broker relating to its business;
(b) 
 to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by 
the stock Broker relating to its business;
(c) 
 to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of 
obtaining; and
(d) 
 to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or 
independent auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any 
particulars.  
44. 
 A stock Broker shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books 
relating to the business of the stock Broker which are in its possession or under 
its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the 
carrying out of any examination.

<!-- page 133 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
133A
Submission of information 
to the Commission
45.  A stock Broker shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating to 
its business as the commission may require from time to time.
46. 
 the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be 
submitted within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form 
as the commission may specify and the stock Broker shall comply with such 
requirements.
Compliance manual 47. 
 A stock Broker shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its 
directors and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance 
procedures and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.
Regulatory compliance and 
internal controls
48. 
 A Stock Broker shall have a compliance officer on a full-time basis who shall:
(a)  possess a degree in Business Administration/Finance/Accounting/Law or an 
equivalent professional qualification in Finance/Accountancy/Law;
(b)  report directly to the board of directors of the stock Broker; 
(c)  not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer; and
(d) 
 be employed by the stock Broker at a managerial level.
49.  the stock Broker shall inform the commission on the appointment of such 
compliance officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of 
appointment. In the event of a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, 
the stock Broker shall also give notice to the commission no later than two (2) 
weeks prior to its effective date.
50. 
 The compliance officer on behalf of the Stock Broker shall make a monthly 
compliance report which shall include amongst others the contents specified in 
schedule V of these rules approved  by  the board of directors and signed by a 
director and the chief executive officer confirming compliance with the provisions 
of the sec Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by 
the commission from time to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, 
No. 06 of 2006 where applicable and forward the same to the commission, before 
the twentieth (20
th) day of the following month.
  however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for rectification 
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the 
date on which the board of directors were informed as to the steps that have been 
taken by the board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.   
51. 
 employees of the stock Broker shall obtain the prior written approval from the 
compliance officer in respect of all Personal Account Dealings. Such dealings shall 
be conducted in a manner that will not prejudice the interests of its clients.

<!-- page 134 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
134A
 For the purposes of this rule, “Personal Account dealings” shall mean buying and 
selling of securities into securities Accounts of employees of the stock Broker. 
52.  A stock Broker shall maintain procedures to ensure that complaints of clients 
relating to the conduct of its business are handled in a timely and effective manner.
53.  Procedures of the stock Broker in relation to client complaint handling shall be in 
accordance with the rules of an exchange of which it is a trading Participant. 
54.  A stock Broker shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence 
procedures specified by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Central Bank 
of sri Lanka where applicable from time to time.
Notification on the  
happening of certain events 
55. 
 Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, these 
rules or directives, the stock Broker shall forthwith provide written notice to the 
commission if:
 (a)  the stock Broker is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved 
whether within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator or an 
equivalent person has been appointed in respect of any property of the stock 
Broker;
(b) 
 the stock Broker ceases to carry on the business to which the licence relates; 
(c)  the stock Broker has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, 
rules relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person of a 
Market Intermediary, the Rules specified herein or any other directive issued 
by the commission from time to time; 
(d) 
 it comes to know that any information or document furnished to the 
commission is false or misleading or there is any change in any information 
or document furnished to the commission;
(e) 
 any execution against the stock Broker in respect of a judgment debt has been 
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part; 
(f) 
 the stock Broker whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise 
or scheme of arrangement that is still in operation; 
(g) 
 any director or the chief executive officer has been convicted of any offence 
involving fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside 
of sri Lanka; or 
(h) 
 any director or the chief executive officer of the Stock Broker becomes an 
undischarged bankrupt.  

<!-- page 135 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
135A
Advertisements 56.  A stock Broker shall ensure that the content in advertisements promoting its 
services is accurate, complete and is not misleading. 
57.  A stock Broker shall submit a copy of all advertisements proposed to be published, 
for the perusal of the commission at least one (1) week prior to its publication in 
the media.
Cancellation or suspension 
of a licence
58. 
 the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to a stock Broker shall be 
governed by the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.
Commencement of  
operations
59. 
 If the stock Broker fails to commence its business operations no later than six (6) 
months after the issue of the licence, the licence shall cease to be valid.
Licence of a Stock Broker 
deemed to be revoked
60. 
 A licence of a stock Broker shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to which 
a licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved.
Ceasing of operations 61. 
 In the event a stock Broker decides to cease its operations as a stock Broker or 
its status as a trading Participant is terminated by the exchange of which it is a 
trading Participant, such stock Broker shall comply with the procedure set out in 
the rules of such exchange and simultaneously keep the commission informed of 
every step that is taken.

<!-- page 136 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
136A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant 
entity) being duly incorporated and having our registered office/ principal place of business at .....…(address)…..... 
hereby undertake and agree:
1. 
 to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2.
 to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant entity by a court of law in Sri Lanka or 
abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, 
deceit, dishonesty, misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements made and 
information provided along with the application for the grant/renewal of a licence are true and accurate to the best of 
our knowledge.  
Given under the common seal of the entity on this ..............…. day of .............…. in the presence of
……………………….
(Name) 
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this ….................... day of ….......................
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:  Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority.

<!-- page 137 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
137A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary unless that individual is a fit 
and proper person to hold such office in such entity as morefully described in 
these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and employees 
dealing with clients shall submit an affidavit to the Commission affirming 
that such person is not subject to any of the infirmities morefully described in 
these rules prior to such individual being appointed and at the time a market 
Intermediary seeks a licence or a renewal of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer of a Market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors 
of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office 
of a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately 
notify the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients.
(a)   be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 138 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
138A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position 
or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial 
fraud by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
Financial soundness 7.   the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall not:
(a)    have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)   have been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)   have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:

<!-- page 139 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
139A
i.      has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.      has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with 
its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had assets 
sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of 
law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing with clients shall:
(a)    not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)   
 have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 140 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
140A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.  
 I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.

<!-- page 141 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
141A
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or 
been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having  
accepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her  
signature at …………. on 
this …………… day of…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable
 

<!-- page 142 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
142A
SCHEDULE IV
Minimum Contents of a Compliance Manual
1.  Conflicts of Interest:
(a)   an effective internal control framework to prevent abuse or detect inappropriate practices or any conflicts of 
interest between proprietary transactions, employees’ transactions and clients’ transactions and steps to address 
such situations in a timely manner;         
(b)   procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities that give rise 
to a risk of a conflict of interest;
(c)   procedures to ensure that key duties and functions of the front office and back office are clearly segregated to 
avoid any conflicts of interest;
(d)   procedures for the prevention or limitation of any person from exercising inappropriate influence over the manner 
in which a relevant person carries out services or activities; 
(e)   a mechanism to monitor and identify non-compliance with the conflicts of interest policy and steps to address 
such non-compliance in an appropriate and in a timely manner;
(f)   establish a procedure to ensure that the stock Broker does not engage in transactions with related parties in a 
manner that would grant such parties more favourable treatment than that accorded to third parties in the ordinary 
course of business;   
(g)  procedures to minimize and manage any conflicts of interest that may arise in carrying out a combination of 
regulated activities; and
(h)  ensure that it does not carry out any activities, which could cause a conflict of interest with its functions of  a 
stock Broker.
2.  corporate Governance:
(a)  a code of conduct and ethics, good business practices and the requirement to follow just and pair principles in the 
conduct of its business;
(b)  requirement to comply with the sec Act, applicabe rules and regulations and requirements of ay regulatory 
authority  in respect of fuctioning in the capacity of a stock Broker;
(c)  compliance requirements contained in any code or best practices introduced by the commission in respect of 
stock Brokers;
(d)  an effective complaint handling process;
(e)  requirement to implement a sound financial and business reporting structure;
(f)  requirement to segregate assets of the clients from those of the stock Broker; and
(g)  requirement to ensure compliance with Fitness and Properietary rules issued by the commission from time to 
time.
3.  risk management:
(a)  availability of sound internal controls and risk management policies and processes;
(b)  availability of internal audit systems;
(c)  regular review of adequacy and effectiveness of financial, operational and compliance controls;
(d)  regular review of the adequacy of the total margin requirements in carrying out its functions as a stock Broker;
(e)  regular review of disaster recovery and business continuity arrangments;
(f)   regular review of the principal risks (including financial, operational, compliance and information technology risk 
categories) applicable to the stock Broker and the manner in which such risk are being managed or mitigated 
approach towards identifying, measuring and monitoring the key risks, and its approach towards the governance 
and management of these risks; and
(g)  regular review of adequacy and effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures.

<!-- page 143 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
143A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.  Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a)  securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of  2021;
(b)  rules issued by the commission of which it is a trading Participant;
(c)  rules of an exchange of which it is a trading Participant ; and
(d)  rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2. If not:
(a)  give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b)  action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c)  the outcome. 
3. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
If so:
(a)  the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b)  outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/7

<!-- page 144 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
144A
 RULES APPLICABLE TO STOCK DEALERS
the securItIes ANd eXchANGe cOmmIssION OF srI LANKA Act, NO. 19 OF 2021 
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
 Viraj  Dayaratne PC
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo,
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to stock dealers.
General interpretation 1.  The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context requires otherwise have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act:
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“dealing in its Own Account” means buying and selling of securities by a stock 
dealer to its securities Account; 
“Exchange” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC Act;
“Issuer” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall 
include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer and 
persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling 
the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Listed Public Company” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of 
the sec Act.   
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 
19 of 2021; 
“Securities” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC Act;
“securities Account” means an account opened in a central  depository;
“Stock Broker”  shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC 
Act;
“Stock Dealer” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the SEC 
Act;
“Trading Participant” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 of the 
sec Act;

<!-- page 145 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
145A
Applicability 2.  the rules set out herein shall apply to stock dealers licensed under the sec Act.
3.  every stock dealer shall comply with: 
(a)  the rules set out herein and any amendments made thereto; 
(b)  provisions of the sec Act;
(c)  directives issued from time to time by the commission; 
(d)  rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a  Key 
management Person of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of 
these rules; and 
(e)  the trading Participant rules of an exchange approved by the commission.
Requirement for a licence 4.    No entity shall engage in the function of a Stock Dealer without having first obtained 
a licence from the commission.
5.   the period of validity of a licence granted to a stock dealer shall be twelve (12) 
months. 
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
6.
 the grant of a licence to a stock dealer shall be a two (2) stage process. An 
applicant may in the first instance apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying the 
requirements as set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval 
may thereafter apply for final approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out in 
(b) hereof:   
(a)
 In order to obtain in-principle approval, an applicant shall submit to the 
commission:
(i) a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided 
on the website of the commission along with the supporting documents 
mentioned therein;
(ii)
 confirmation from the Exchange on the grant of provisional Trading 
Participant status;
(iii)
 declaration by an applicant as per the specimen in schedule I of these 
rules;
(iv)
 declaration by directors relating to their fitness and propriety according 
to the Fitness and Propriety of a  Key management Person of a market 
Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of these rules. such declaration 
shall be in the form of an affidavit prepared in accordance with the specimen 
provided in schedule III of these rules; and
(v)
 the fee payable for processing the application for in-principle approval 
specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time to time.

<!-- page 146 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
146A
No later than six (6) months from the date of obtaining in-principle approval, the 
applicant shall fulfill the following requirements and submit the following documents as 
proof thereof in order to obtain the licence:
(i) a written confirmation from the Exchange confirming that the applicant has 
satisfied all entry requirements stipulated in the Rules of the Exchange 
to be admitted as a trading Participant of the exchange and therefore a 
recommendation that the applicant be granted a licence as a stock dealer;
(ii)
 declarations by Key management Persons (excluding directors) and employees 
Dealing in its Own Account relating to their fitness and propriety to hold such 
office in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person 
of a market Intermediary as stipulated in schedule II of these rules. such 
declaration shall be in the form of an affidavit prepared in accordance with the 
specimen provided in schedule III of these  rules;
(iii)
 a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of these 
rules; 
(iv)
 the licence fee specified by way of regulations made by the Minister from time 
to time; and
(v)
 any other information that the commission may require the applicant to submit 
in the evaluation of the application for the licence.
7. It shall be the duty of the stock dealer to notify the commission and obtain its prior 
consent for any change in particulars contained in an application to be licensed as a 
stock dealer.
8.
 the commission may refuse an application made to be licensed as a stock dealer 
on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Renewal of a licence 9. A stock dealer shall submit an application for renewal three (3) months prior to the 
expiry of the licence along with the renewal fee.
10.
 An application for renewal shall be in the format provided by the commission on its 
website along with the supporting documents mentioned therein.
11.
 Any stock dealer who fails to submit an application for renewal within the aforesaid 
time period shall be charged a late fee as prescribed by way of regulations made by 
the minister from time to time.
12.
 It shall be the duty of the stock dealer to notify the commission and obtain its prior 
consent  for any change in particulars contained in an application for the renewal of 
a licence as a stock dealer.
13.
 the commission may refuse an application made for the renewal of a licence as a 
stock dealer on any of the grounds morefully set out in section 95 of the sec Act.
Licensing fee 14. A stock dealer shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.  

<!-- page 147 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
147A
Minimum financial 
requirements and 
submission of reports
15.
 A stock dealer shall:
(a) at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ funds as determined by the 
exchange of which it is a trading Participant;
(b) at all times maintain minimum liquid capital as determined by the exchange of 
which it is a trading Participant;
(c) at all times maintain minimum capital Adequacy requirements (cAr) as 
determined by the exchange of which it is a trading Participant;
(d) inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ funds, liquid capital and/
or the minimum capital Adequacy requirements fall below the requirements 
stipulated in the rules of the exchange of which it is a trading Participant; and 
(e)
 not carry on its activities as a Stock Dealer if the minimum financial requirements 
as determined in the rules of the exchange of which it is a trading Participant 
are not met, unless the prior written approval of the commission is obtained.
16.
 A stock dealer shall provide the information as set out below to the commission:
(a) financial statements prepared monthly as determined by the Exchange of which 
it is a trading Participant within twenty (20) days from the end of the particular 
month signed by a director and the chief executive officer of such Stock Dealer; 
and 
(b)
 a copy of the statement of audited accounts prepared annually in accordance 
with the sri Lanka Accounting standards and audited in accordance with the 
sri Lanka Auditing standards within a period of four (4) months from the close 
of each financial year.
17.
 A stock dealer shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s report or 
any additional period of time permitted by the commission, take steps to rectify the 
deficiencies if any, made out in the auditor’s report.
Change in shareholding of 
a Stock Dealer
18.
 A change in the shareholding of twenty percentum (20%) or more of the total 
shareholding of a stock dealer shall be made only with the prior consent of the 
commission.
 Provided however, this rule shall not be applicable to a stock dealer, which is a 
Primary dealer or a Licensed commercial Bank regulated by the central Bank of 
sri Lanka. 
Directors’ duty of a Stock 
Dealer 
19.
 A director of the stock dealer, who has Information of another Listed Public 
company acting in his capacity as a director or employee of such Listed Public 
company, shall not use such Information for the purpose of dealing in its Own 
Account.
 For the purpose of this rule, ‘Information’ shall mean information held by a director 
relating to a listed entity in which the director acts as a director or an employee, 
which would not otherwise be available to him.

<!-- page 148 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
148A
Employees Dealing in its 
Own Account 
20. A stock dealer shall ensure that a minimum of one (1) person who is a registered 
Investment Advisor (RIA) possessing qualifications and/or experience set out in 
rules of an exchange of which it is a trading Participant is employed to deal in its 
Own Account.
21.
 Any person employed by a stock dealer to deal in its Own Account shall follow 
continuous Professional development (cPd) programmes conducted by the 
commission on rules and other applicable regulations.
22.
 A stock dealer shall ensure that any person employed to deal in its Own Account 
shall comply with rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety 
of a Key management Person of a market Intermediary.  
23.
 In the event a stock dealer also operates as a stock Broker, persons employed to 
deal in its Own Account shall not trade on behalf of clients of the stock Broker. 
24.
 the commission may direct the stock dealer to vary the minimum number of such 
qualified persons to Deal in its Own Account, depending on the volume of business 
proposed to be undertaken or currently undertaken by such stock dealer.
Lower priority to orders 
relating to Dealing in its 
Own Account 
25.
 In the event a stock dealer operates as a stock Broker, the stock dealer   shall 
ensure that orders relating to dealing in its Own Account are treated with lower 
priority level over the orders of the clients.
Restricted Securities 26.
 A stock dealer shall not execute any trade in respect of its own account in relation 
to a Security which is subject to financial advice or research, during such period that 
the stock dealer holds material non-public information relating to such security or 
issuer of such security. 
Maintenance of a separate 
bank account
27.
 A stock dealer shall maintain a separate bank account for the purpose of making 
settlement of funds in respect of dealing in its Own Account. 
Settlements in respect of 
Dealing in its Own Account  
28.
 A stock dealer, prior to carrying out purchase of securities for its own account shall 
ensure that there is an adequate cash balance in hand or in its bank account.
29.
 In the event a stock dealer operates as a stock Broker, a stock dealer shall at no 
time utilize its clients’ money for settlement of purchase of securities to its own 
account.    
Dealing limits 30.
 A stock dealer shall comply with dealing limits applicable, when dealing in its Own 
Account as specified in Rules of the Exchange of which it is a Trading Participant.
Dealing in its Own Account 31.
 When dealing in its Own Account, a stock dealer shall act in compliance with the 
provisions contained in section 106 of the sec Act.
Infrastructure and related 
requirements
32.
 A stock dealer shall at all times ensure that the requirements with regard to 
infrastructure and related requirements of an exchange of which it is a trading 
Participant are complied with and in any event ensure that steps are taken to:

<!-- page 149 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
149A
(a) maintain proper systems including an order management system and a back 
office system and  processes relating to information technology;
(b) maintain adequate human resources suitable and adequate to support the proper 
conduct of its business as a stock dealer;
(c)
 ensure that an effective system of functional barriers is in place to prevent the 
flow of information that may be confidential and/or price sensitive between the 
functions; and
(d)
 have appropriate information recording and retrieval systems and maintain such 
information for inspection by the commission.
33.
 A stock dealer shall not be entitled to outsource its core function to any other party. 
however, if any other function other than the core function of the stock dealer is to 
be outsourced, the stock dealer shall enter into a written agreement with the party 
to whom any work is outsourced. such agreement shall contain an undertaking from 
the party to whom any work is outsourced that they shall comply with the laws, rules 
and directives that the stock dealer is bound to follow. 
Regulatory compliance and 
internal controls
34.
 A Stock Dealer shall have a compliance officer on a full-time basis who shall:
(a) possess a degree in Business Administration/Finance/Accounting/Law or an 
equivalent professional  qualification in Finance/Accountancy/Law;
(b) report directly to the board of directors of the stock dealer;
(c) not perform any other duties that may compromise or be in conflict with the 
responsibilities of the compliance officer; and
(d) be employed by the stock dealer at a managerial level.
35. the  stock dealer shall inform the commission on the appointment of such 
compliance officer no later than one (1) week prior to the effective date of 
appointment. In the event of a cessation of employment of a compliance officer, the 
stock dealer shall also give notice to the commission no later than two (2) weeks 
prior to its effective date.
36.
 The compliance officer on behalf of the Stock Dealer shall make a monthly 
compliance report which shall include amongst others the contents specified in 
schedule V of these rules approved by the board of directors and signed by a 
director and the chief executive officer confirming compliance with the provisions 
of the sec Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by the 
commission from time to time.
 however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer shall immediately report such matter to the board of directors for rectification 
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date 
on which the board of directors were informed together with steps that have been 
taken by the board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.   

<!-- page 150 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
150A
Compliance manual 37. A stock dealer shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its directors 
and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance procedures 
and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.
Maintenance of records 38.
 A stock dealer shall maintain  the records as required under the trading Participant 
rules of the exchange of which it is a trading Participant and in any event maintain 
the following records:
(a) all documents pertaining to the opening and maintenance of securities Accounts;
(b) trade information and any obligations arising out of such trades;
(c) notifications pertaining to partially and/or fully unsettled trades;
(d) trade confirmation notes; and
(e) books of accounts.
39. All of the above records shall be retained by the stock dealer for a period of six (6) 
years.
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns 
40. A stock dealer shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as 
will truly reflect the transactions and financial position of its business and enable 
the preparation of a true and fair Income statement and a statement of Financial 
Position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the 
Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka; 
(b)
 maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in 
such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c)
 retain such accounting records or other books for a period of not less than six (6) 
years. 
Commission approval to 
engage in other business
41.
 A stock dealer shall not engage in any other business activity which is not regulated 
by the commission unless the prior written approval of the commission is obtained.
 however, this rule shall not be applicable in respect of stock dealers who are 
commercial Banks licensed by the central Bank of sri Lanka (cBsL) and Primary 
dealers authorized by the cBsL.
Duty to furnish information 
and co-operate with 
auditors appointed by the 
Commission
42.
 Where the commission having considered that it is in the  interest of the stock 
dealer appoints an independent auditor or such other person or a body of persons to 
examine, audit and report either generally or in relation to any particular matter, it 
shall be the duty of such stock dealer:
(a)
 to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the stock 
dealer relating to its business;
(b)
 to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
stock dealer relating to its business;

<!-- page 151 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
151A
(c) to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of 
obtaining; and
(d) to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any particulars.  
43.
 A stock dealer shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books 
relating to the business of the stock dealer which are in its possession or under 
its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the 
carrying out of any examination.
Submission of information 
to the Commission
44.
 A stock dealer shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating to 
its business as the commission may require from time to time.
45. the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be 
submitted within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as the 
commission may specify and the stock dealer shall comply with such requirements.
Notification on the 
happening of certain events 
46.
 Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, these 
rules or directives, the stock dealer shall forthwith provide written notice to the 
commission if:
 (a)
 the stock dealer is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved 
whether within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator or an 
equivalent person has been appointed in respect of any property of the stock 
dealer;
(b)
 the stock dealer ceases to carry on the business to which the licence relates; 
(c) the stock dealer has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, rules 
relating to Fitness and Propriety of a  Key management Person of a market 
Intermediary  specified herein or any other directive issued by the Commission 
from time to time; 
(d)
 it comes to know that any information or document furnished to the commission 
is false or misleading or there is any change in any information or document 
furnished to the commission;
(e)
 any execution against the stock dealer in respect of a judgment debt has been 
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part; 
(f)
 the stock dealer whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise 
or scheme of arrangement that is still in operation; 
(g)
 any director or the chief executive officer has been convicted of any offence 
involving fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside 
of sri Lanka; or 
(h)
 any director or the chief executive officer of the Stock Dealer becomes an 
undischarged bankrupt.

<!-- page 152 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
152A
Licence of a Stock Dealer 
deemed to be revoked
47. A licence of a stock dealer shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to whom 
a licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved.
Cancellation or suspension 
of a licence
48.
 the cancellation or suspension of a licence granted to a stock dealer shall be 
governed by the provisions contained in section 105 of the sec Act.
Commencement of 
operations
49.
 If the stock dealer fails to commence its business operations no later than six (6) 
months after the issue of the licence, the licence will cease to be valid.
Cessation of operations 50.
 In the event a stock dealer decides to cease its business operations as a stock dealer 
or his status as a trading Participant is terminated by the exchange of which it is a 
trading Participant, such stock dealer shall comply with the procedure set out in 
the rules of such exchange and simultaneously keep the commission informed of 
every step that is taken. 

<!-- page 153 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
153A
SCHEDULE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman 
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade centre
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (category of the market intermediary), we (name of the applicant 
entity) being duly incorporated and having our registered office/ principal place of business at ….....(address).......….. 
hereby undertake and agree:
1. 
 to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2.
 to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or 
replaced from time to time.
We further declare that no finding has been made against the applicant the Applicant entity by a court of law in Sri 
Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market offence or any other act which involves 
fraud, deceit, dishonesty, misrepresentation, breach of contract or breach of fiduciary duty and that the statements 
made and information provided along with the application for the grant/renewal of a licence are true and accurate to 
the best of our knowledge.  
Given under the common seal of the entity on this …....................... day of ........................…. in the presence of
……………………….
(Name) 
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed by the duly authorized signatories of the entity on this …. day of …..
…………………………
(Name) 
Authorized signatory
Note:   Please attach a certified true copy of the board resolution/Power of Attorney in proof of such authority.

<!-- page 154 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
154A
SCHEDULE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
General interpretation 1.   The words and terms defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act :
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, a compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly; 
“Market Intermediary” shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 188 
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission
2.   
 No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key management Person or employee dealing in its own Account of a market 
Intermediary unless that individual is a fit and proper person to hold such office 
in such entity as morefully described in these rules.
 
3.  
 An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person and employees 
Dealing in its own Account with, shall submit an affidavit to the Commission 
affirming that such person is not subject to any of the infirmities morefully 
described in these rules prior to such individual being appointed and at the time 
a market Intermediary seeks a licence or a renewal of licence.
4.  
 The information contained in the affidavit shall not be misleading or vague and 
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5.  
 Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer of a Market Intermediary shall immediately inform the board of directors 
of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or the continuation in office 
of a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately 
notify the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 
Honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6.  
 the Key management Person and employees dealing in its own Accounts shall 
not:
(a)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b)  
 be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law 
in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or 
against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act 
during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the 
application;

<!-- page 155 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
155A
(c)   have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for 
the commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having 
proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or 
negligence attributable to such person;
(d)  
 be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e)   
 be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder;
(f)  
 be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)  
 be a person against whom a finding has been made by the Commission or 
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)  
 be a person who has been disqualified from acting as a director of a 
company or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any position or 
office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of financial fraud 
by the commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i)  
 be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or an exchange or any other regulatory/professional 
body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of 
suspected capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit 
or dishonesty; and/or
(j)  
 be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of the members of the public against financial loss due to dishonesty or 
malpractice of such person.
7.   the Key management Person shall not:
(a)    have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b)   have been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)   have been a person of a company in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
Financial soundness

<!-- page 156 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
156A
i.    has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad that 
remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
ii.    has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition with its 
creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, 
involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or been involved 
in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8.  
 the Key management Person shall:
(a)    not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)    possess the qualifications required to provide the services for which a 
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)   
 have satisfied the relevant training and competence requirements in 
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)   
 possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(e)  
 have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members of the public against financial loss due to incompetence of 
such person.

<!-- page 157 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
157A
SCHEDULE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Intermediary
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do hereby solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm] / [Christian/Catholic make oath and swear as follows]:
1.   I am the [affirmant/deponent] above named.
2.   I affirm/state that I am a ____________ [Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.  
 I affirm/state that I possess the following academic and/ or professional qualification/s:
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
   …………………………………………………………..
4.   I affirm/state that I have not been found guilty / held responsible by a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence / capital market offence. 
5.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a body corporate which has been found guilty / held 
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/ capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.  
 I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the Securities 
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021 (‘sec Act’) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed by the Commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit. 
7.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a Key Management Person of a company, partnership or other organization whose 
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules or 
regulations made thereunder.
8.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused membership or 
registration by the commission, an exchange or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of this affidavit.
9.  
 I affirm/state that I have not been a person who has been disqualified by the Commission, an Exchange or any other 
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company or has been dismissed or requested to 
resign from any position or office due to mismanagement of funds or the commission of a financial fraud. 
10.  I affirm/state that I am not a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the Commission/an Exchange 
or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for 
the commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding has been made by the Commission/an Exchange or any other regulatory/ supervisory authority/ professional 
body in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.  I affirm / state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss by dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice.

<!-- page 158 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
158A
12.  I affirm / state that no proceedings have been instituted in a court of law in Sri Lanka or abroad requesting that I be 
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.  I affirm/state that I have not been subject to any judgment debt or award in Sri Lanka or abroad that remains unpaid 
in whole or in part.
14.  I affirm/state that I am not a person/ director of a company or a shareholder in a position that exercises significant 
influence in a company that:
(a)   has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or in part; 
or 
(b)   has in Sri Lanka or abroad made any arrangements in composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court of law or 
been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.  I affirm/state that I have not been declared as a person of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction in Sri 
Lanka or abroad. 
16.  I affirm/state that I have the relevant training, competence and expertise in the nature of the business being conducted 
by the entity. 
17.  I affirm/state that I have adequate time to perform the regulated functions and meet the responsibilities associated 
with such function of the entity.
18.  I affirm/state that I have the technical knowledge and ability to perform the prescribed duties which I am engaged in, 
especially recognised professional qualifications and membership of relevant professional institutions.
19.  I affirm/state that I have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the members of the public 
against financial loss due to my incompetence.
20.  I affirm/state that all of the above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
    
                  Before me
              JustIce OF the PeAce/
cOmmIssIONer FOr OAths
the averments contained herein were read 
over to the [affirmant/deponent] who having 
understood the contents hereof and having ac-
cepted same as true,
[affirmed/ swore] to and placed his/her signa-
ture at …………. on 
this …………… day of…………………
Affix stamps as
applicable
 

<!-- page 159 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
159A
SCHEDULE IV
Minimum Contents of a Compliance Manual
1. Conflict of Interest:
(a) an effective internal control framework to prevent abuse or detect inappropriate investment practices and in the 
event a Stock Dealer operates as a Stock Broker, conflictsof interest between dealing in Securities on its behalf 
and trading on behalf of its clients
(b) proceduresto prevent taking advantage of material non-public information held by the stock dealer in respect 
of a Security or issuer of a Security during the period of financial advise or research being carried out. 
(c) procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities that give 
rise to a risk of a conflict of interest;
(d) procedures to ensure that key duties and functions of the front office and back office are clearly segregated to 
avoid any conflict of interest;
(e) procedures for the prevention or limitation of any person from exercising inappropriate influence over the 
manner in which a relevant person carries out services or activities; 
(f) a mechanism to monitor and identify non-compliance with the conflict of interest policy and steps to address 
such non-compliance in an appropriate and in a timely manner;
(g) procedures to minimize and manage any conflict of interest that may arise in carrying out a combination of 
regulated activities; and
(h) proceduresensure that it does not carry out any activities, which could cause a conflict of interest with its 
functions of a stock dealer.
2. corporate Governance:
(a) a code of conduct and ethics, good business practices and the requirement to follow just and fair principles 
in the conduct of its business;
(b) compliance requirement with the sec Act, applicable rules and regulations and requirements of any regulatory 
authority in respect of functioning under the capacity of a stock dealer;
(c) compliance requirements contained in any code or best practices introduced by the commission in respect 
of stock dealers;
(d) sound financial and business reporting structure;
(e) best practices to ensure that the best interest of the investing public to remain over the interests of the stock 
dealer. 
3. risk management:
(a) sound internal controls and risk management policies and processes;
(b) internal audit systems; 
(c) regular review of adequacy and effectiveness of financial, operational and compliance controls;
(d) regular review of the principal risks (including financial, operational, compliance and information technology risk 
categories) applicable to the stock dealer and the manner in which such risks are being managed or mitigated;
(e) approach towards identifying, measuring and monitoring the key risks, and its approach towards the governance 
and management of these risks; and
(f) regular review of adequacy and effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures.

<!-- page 160 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 15.03.2022
160A
SCHEDULE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.  Confirmation that the business has been conducted in conformity with the: 
(a)    securities and exchange of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of  2021;
(b)    rules issued by the commission;
(c)    rules of an exchange of which it is a trading Participant; and
(d)    rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2. If not:
(a)  give information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b)  action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c)  the outcome. 
3. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
If so:
(a)  the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b)  outcomes if any. 
eOG 03 - 0881/8
PrinteD at tHe DePartMent OF GOVernMent PrintinG,  Sri LanKa.