

<!-- page 1 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Provincial  Councils  Notiﬁ cations  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
1A  PG  4224 — 17  (09/2018)
wxl 2088$50 - 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 12 jeks nodod - 2018'09'12
No. 2088/50 -  WEDNESDAY  SEPTEMBER  12,  2018
CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
 REPUBLIC OF  SRI LANKA 
Draft of the amended Statute
PREPARED FOR THE CENTRAL PROVINCIAL PASSENGER TRANSPORT SERVICES AUTHORITY
I forward this draft to obtain public views on amending the Statute No. 01  2000 of the Central Province Passenger Transport 
Services Authority in order to make changes in its provisions for implementing passenger transport services within the 
province and inter provincial passenger transport services related to the Province and other activities due to the present 
requirements and timely changes in those activities.
   This notice will be submitted to the Central Provincial Council for approval after 10 days publishing in the Gazette 
and any comment can be forwarded to me within the period given to the below mentioned address.
 E
DIRIWEERA WEERAWARDENA,
 Minister of Road Development, Transport, 
 Power and Energy and Housing and Construction,
 Central Province.
P. O. Box 104, No. 109,
Yatinuwara Street,
Kandy.
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY

<!-- page 2 -->

2 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
A Statute for cancellation of Road Passengers Transport Services Statute No. 4 of 1992 and No. 01 of 
2000 for the establishment of Central Province Road Passenger Transport Service Authority and matters 
connected with it and consequential to it for this management of it and ful ﬁ ll the needs of management 
and to transport goods and services along roads in the Central Province using motor vehicle within the 
Central Province.  
It is enacted as follows by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka. 
1.  This Statute will be known as Transport Services Authority Statute of Central Province No. 03 of 
2018 and will be in force with effect from the date on which authority is granted by the Governor of 
Central Province (hereinafter called as “Scheduled Date”) 
PART I
Transport Services Authority of Central Province
2. Central   Province   Road Passenger Transport Services Statute No. 4 of 1992 and   the   Central 
Province Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000 will be hereby rescinded.
3(1)   A Central Province Transport Services Authority will be established hereinafter called as “Authority”
  
  (2)   By the name given to the Authority under 3 (1) above it should be an incorporated institute and it 
should have an uninterrupted life and a common seal and in the name of the Authority it compile 
action and actions could be ﬁ les against it. 
 4.(1)  The Authority should consist of eleven members of whom ﬁ ve will be Ex: ofﬁ ce members while 
site members will be appointed as members. 
   All members of the Authority have to be appointed formally by a letter signed and issued by the 
Minister. All such appointments should have been published in Government Gazette.
2. (i)    A Five of ﬁ ce members should be as follows :
         (a) The Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject of Transport of the Central Province or 
Senior Ofﬁ cer of executive level nominated by him.
 (b) A Senior Of ﬁ cer if Provincial Treasury of executive level nominated by the Chief Minister of 
Central Province Senior Deputy IGP of Central Province or
 (c) An of ﬁ cer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police. 
 (d) Commissioner of Local Government of Central Province or an Assistant Commissioner of 
Local Government nominated by him.
 (e) Commissioner of Transport of Central Province or an Assistant Commissioner of this 
Department nominated by him. 
Short Name     
and the
Date of
Operation
PROPOSED DRAFT STATUTE OF CENTRAL PROVINCE TRANSPORT SERVICES AUTHORITY
Transport Services Authority
Members  
 of the
Authority

<!-- page 3 -->

3IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(ii)   “Appointment Members” should be as follows :
 (a)  Four persons who are quali ﬁ ed in one or more of the ﬁ elds of Transport, Law, Management, 
Commercial Administration or Civil Engineering and well experienced and showing 
abilities in those subjects in such a manner, that the Minister in charge is satisﬁ ed.  
 (b) Two persons selected by the Minister at his discretion to represent goods or those who 
transport passengers.
 5.   (1) Out of the members appointed by the Minister as above one member should be selected as the 
Chairman of the Authority.
  (2) The period of of ﬁ ce of the Chairman is the period of his membership in the post of so long on 
the Ministry wants him to be the Chairman.  
  (3) He could not hold the of ﬁ ce due to ill health going abroad or due to any other reason, the 
Minister will appoint another person to act for him.
  (6) Implementation of the powers vested in the Authority of this Statute is the responsibility of the 
Chairman. 
(7) (1)  The post of the Chairman may terminate due to one or more of the following reasons :-
 (i) Become ineligible for the membership of the Authority due to one or more reasons 
given below,
 (ii) Registration from the post by a letter addressed to the minister under his signature, 
 (iii) Minister expels him giving reasons,
 
 (iv) Due to Death
   (2) The Chairmanship lost in this manner will be held by the Secretary of the Ministry of 
Transport until the Minister in charge of the subject appoints a permanent Chairman. 
  8. (1) Before the Minister appoints a person as a member of the Board of Directors, he should 
satisfy himself whether that person will be able to discharge duties as a members of the 
Board of Directors or whether he has any ﬁ nancial or other dealings which may have advise 
effect due to ﬁ nancial or any other dealings.   
            (2)      When a member of the Board of Directors is appointed to that post, the Minister should from 
time to time, be satisﬁ ed that he had not any such connection.
            (3)     A person proposed by the Minister to be appointed as a member of the Board of Directors of 
the Authority, is bonded to supply any information for the purpose of the Statute when the 
Ministry makes such a request. 
            (4)     If any members of the Authority is directly or indirectly inserted in some agreement which 
the Authority involved with, he should reveals the details of the matter to the Board at one 
of its meetings. Such reveals should be recorded in the Ministers of the Meetings. Those 
members of the Board of Director should not participate in any such meetings or discussion 
regarding this matter.   
                         
Chairman   
of the
Authority
Responsibility     
of the
Chairman
Vacation of        
the post of
Chairman
Members'           
Financial 
Connection

<!-- page 4 -->

4 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
  9.(1) The Chairman should take the chair in all meetings of the Directorate. In the absence of the 
Chairman members of the meetings should get together and elect a person as the Chairman.
  (2) A member of the Board of Directors of the Authority should have six persons for its quorum.
  (3) All matters submitted by the Authority for its consideration should be decided at a meeting 
of the Authority and such matters should be approved by the majority of its members. 
  (4) If an election is held to decide some matter at a meeting of the Directorate if the members of 
votes become equal. The Chairman should have the deciding vote in addition to the original 
votes.
  (5) If there is any defect in the selection or appointment of members of the Directorate at a 
meeting of Directors, if it is revealed later that there was a mistake, all his actions at the 
meeting should be accepted and needed as valid.
                              
  (6) For the reason that there is a vacancy of a member, any action or any other thing done at the 
meeting should not be treated as null and void.  
  (10) Such members appointed to the Authority as an ex: of ﬁ cer members should hold the 
membership so long as he hold the post as an ex:- of ﬁ cer members, he could be appointed 
again after the expiry of the period.
 11. (1) Unless a member of the Board of Directors vacates his post due to death, resignation or 
expelled from the post, all members of the Board of Directors should hold  of ﬁ ce for a 
period of 3 years and unless he is expelled due to some reason he/she will be eligible for re 
appointment.
  (2) Ministry could terminate the duties of a member of the Board of Directors by giving reasons.   
   
  (3) If any member of the Board of Directors wants to resign his post at any time he can 
   do so by sending a letter to the Minister and when the registration is accepted by 
   the Minsters the resignation will be effective. 
(4) When a post of member of the Board of Directors falls vacant and when the Minister 
considers the Provision of the Statute to appoint him another person can be appointed  on 
his behalf and that new member can hold ofﬁ ce for the balance period of the resigned. 
12.  If a person 
  (1) is a Member of Parliament and a members of some Provincial Council or a Local Government 
Institute
  (2) Is not a citizen of Sri Lanka
  (3) Had been decided by an accepted Medical Board that the person is at unsound mind or has 
been fully incapacitated
  (4)  Is a person who has been declared as a person of insolvency by a Court of Law in Sri Lanka, 
or by any other country but not declared as fully cured.
  (5)  Is a person convicted by laws for a criminal act or is already under going punishment.
  (6)  Is a person convicted for bribery or is undergoing punishment for such an offence. Such 
persons ineligible to become a member of the Board of Management of the Authority or to 
continue as a member for a further period.
Meeting of 
the  Board of 
Directors 
of the
 Authority.
 
 
  
Members               
Appointed by
Ex:- Ofﬁ ce 
members  
Provisions     
for Members
 
Disqualiﬁ cation  
to become a 
member

<!-- page 5 -->

5IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
 13. 1. Members of the Authority could be paid only remuneration for attending meetings of the 
Authority by inquiring from the Minister in charge of the subjects of Finance and as directed 
by the Minister
   2. Board of Directors should meet once a month according to the meetings of the Authority 
and if necessary the Minister in charge of the subject or the Secretary of the Ministry in 
charge of the subject
 14.. 1. Seal of the Authority should be as decided by the Authority
  2. Seal of the Authority
  a) Should be in charge of the Chairman of the Authority 
  b) The stamp should not be placed or any document other than on a attendance sheet 
of members of the Authority in support of their attendance in the presence of two 
members.
                  
PART II
Powers and activities belonging to the Authority
 15  Powers and activities of the Authority should be as follows
 
 (1)  i. Ful ﬁ lling passengers requirements within the Province and formalizing and formalizing the 
transport services and issue a license, renewal, cancellation, extension of the period and 
transferring the ownership.  
  ii. Commending to the Minister standards required for the transport of passengers and goods and 
the licensed of a motor vehicle used for the transport of passengers and goods and if no other 
law has ordered the quality and futures of the vehicle, the Minister should recommended to 
the Minister the required standards necessary for passengers transport and the transport of 
goods. 
  iii. Under this Statute if a person who has obtained a license for passenger transport or for the 
transport of goods is ordered to supply information or reports etc. for some purpose under 
this Statute or any other written law. 
  iv. Issued of a license for the transport of standards for a fee, bene ﬁ t or a gift attending schools, 
universities, technical colleges or equivalent institute within the Province providing transport 
services at concessionary rates and enacting laws. 
  v. Formalizing transport services of ﬁ ce employee and factory employees for a fee, beneﬁ t or a 
gift within the Province, and issued of license and enacting laws for the maintenance of such 
services.
  vi. Formalizing the transport of passengers and good by Trishaws with or without charging a fee 
within the Province on beneﬁ t maintenance of such transport services and issued of license 
and enacting laws. 
  
Remuneration   
for Attending
Meetings 
Meeting Count  
of Board of
 Directors
Seal
Powers     and
Activities
Powers for the       
Transport of
Passengers and 
goods 
Suitability of 
vehicles used for 
the transport of 
passengers and 
goods
Supply of 
information
  
Transport school 
children
  
Transport of ofﬁ ce 
employees and 
factory employees  
Transport of 
passengers by 
trishaws or hiring 
vehicles

<!-- page 6 -->

6 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
 vii. (a) Charging a service charge from vehicles which travel across Central Province or in the 
Province from another province and engage in transport of passengers or goods even 
without a license but charging a fee, gift or beﬁ t. 
    (b)  When recommendations are requested regarding issue a licenses by the National 
Transport Commission or by any other institutes issue of the recommendations as 
necessary and when busses are travelling without an entry pass or a license from this 
Authority, they should not be given an entry pass and legal action should be taken 
against them.   
  viii. The Authority has the power to introduce new projects for the development of passengers 
transport services within Central Province and to improve the quality of the services and 
implement them and with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject and the 
Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject and to form subcommittee, implement 
projects and control and to enact the necessary laws and directions. 
  
  ix. Given an order to implement a formal time table for all two common transport services within 
the province which should be committed integrated and which the Authority deems suitable 
and order all transporters to strictly abide by the time table and for those who contravene an 
on the spot service charges recovered with legal actions. 
   x. Issue of license and other authorities, their renewal, amending and qrounting rights. 
  xi. Name board indicating the starting points and destinations of busses which carry a license 
issued by the Authority which should be exhibited outside and inside of the bus and signs 
and lodes should be enforced according to existing policies and standards of the government.
 
  xii. Drivers, Conductors and vehicle assistants of Motor Vehicles which are engaged in the 
transport of passengers and goods on a license or any other document of authority issued by 
the Authority should by registered and should be issued withy identity cards and attending to 
the cancellation of registration a vehicle assistants and renewal and suspension.
  xiii. Investigation, prevention and taking action against the violation of the provisions of this 
Statute regarding the transport of passengers and goods within the province and developing 
ﬂ ying scuds
 and their establishment directing to enforce their powers and activities.   
  xiv. Establishment hiring cars and transport vehicle halting places, their maintenance management, 
development effecting changes and closing down, and legal acquisition, making used the 
vacant spaces and buildings. 
  xv. Identi ﬁ cation of other roads have laws part of passengers done along separate their 
classiﬁ cation and determining the type of busses and other vehicles suitable for such rounds 
in the province.
 
  xvi. In order to ful ﬁ ll the aims and objecting of Authority and subject to the provisions of the 
constitution of Sri Lanka and in any other law enter into agreements or contracts will be a 
person or any institute in Sri Lanka or abroad and work with other institutes to achieve its 
aims and objectives. 
Inter provincial 
transport 
services
Introduction of 
new projects  
Issue of License     
Bus terminals and 
name boards      
Registration of
Drivers and 
conductors       
 Identiﬁ cation 
of roads where 
passengers 
transport 
services could 
be developed 
and the type of 
vehicles suitable 
for such roads         

<!-- page 7 -->

7IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
  xvii. Maintenance motor vehicles garages to suitability of vehicles for the transport of passengers 
and goods. 
       
  xviii. Maintenance motor vehicles garages to suitability of vehicles for the transport of passengers 
and goods. 
 2.   The Authority can execute the following powers. 
  i. In respect of bus Stands referred to in schedule 1. Bus halts along roads.
  
  ii. Management work of running busses, ﬁ xing time tables and their implementation ﬁ xing the 
starting points of trips and developing the staff. The Authority has such work ordering their 
responsibility powers and activities giving orders regarding the duties of the staff of the 
Authority at these halting places.
  iii. Administration and management of bus halts by the Authority in a for the Authority and 
discussion regarding outside powers being taken for transport work and taking decisions on  
such matters in a matter for the Authority. 
 3. Subject to the approval of the secretary in charge of the Ministry acquisition of movable or 
immovable property to the work of the Authority or their disposed or is a matter for the Authority. 
      
 4. Implementations of the power of the Authority, its activities and work and getting others to 
implement other powers which the Authority necessary.
PART III
Staff of the Authority
16  The Authority has the power to decide on the staff necessary for carrying out its duties and 
until a separate establishment code and ﬁ nancial regulations are approved for the Authority, all 
establishment work and ﬁ nancial administrations are done according to the establishment code 
and F. R. of the Government and also under the rules and regulations applicable during the 
period, the Authority has been granted permission to act in terms of the above code and FR. 
 1. All appointment, promotions and educational and professional and other applications, 
wages and amounts salaries including the preparation of schemes of recruitment and the 
relevant institute for approval. 
 2. Conduct of disciplinary inquiries giving punishments and terminations of services and their 
abolition including disciplinary control general conduct leave, etc.
 3. Creation of staff development work necessary for the development of staff ef ﬁ ciency and 
the related contribution. 
 4. Implementation of provincial fun scheme,    of activities and implementations of special 
allowance schemes as decided by the Authority. 
 5. Implementations of welfare schemes for the staff of the Authority.
17.     Any employee working against a disciplinary order can submit an appeal to the Secretary of the 
Ministry in charge of the subject. The Secretary will appoint committee to inquire into it and his 
decision is ﬁ nal. 
Training 
of Drivers 
Conductors 
and Vehicle 
Assistant.  
Inspection of 
suitability of 
motor vehicles.   
Administration of 
Provincial Bus 
Halts.
Staff.
Acquisition 
of movable or 
immovable.
Appeal against 
disciplinary order.

<!-- page 8 -->

8 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
18 1.  The Authority has the power to recruit employees in terms of the provisions of pare 16 above.
 2.  The Authority has the power to recruit of ﬁ cers and employees form the public service or 
provincial public service with the approval of the relevant authorities on or  
 3.  When an of ﬁ cer or an employee of public service or provincial public service in recruits to 
the staff of the Authority or he has to work according to the public management laws and 
regulations.  
19.  All members, of ﬁ cers and employees of the Authority will be treated as public servants for purposes 
of penal code. 
20.  The Authority in a scheduled institute for purposes of the Bribery Act and its provisions will be 
applicable to this. 
21.  A person who is quali ﬁ ed under the approved recruitment procedure can be formally appointed as 
the general manager with the approval of the board of directors. 
22   1. Subject to the common policy provisions of the Authority for operation of daily activities 
of the Authority, general disciplinary control of the employees of the Authority including 
administrative work will be to the general managers. 
  2. For the enhancement of Authority other powers and functions that may required from time to 
time may be given to the General Manager by the Chairman.
23.  1. Supervision of controlling and deploying of ﬁ cers for reaching the objectives and for the 
enhancement of the Authority.
 
  2. Having identi ﬁ ed future transport requirements and also having identical new creative ﬁ elds of 
transport ﬁ eld submission of proposals relating to national policies and preparation of relevant 
rules and regulations. 
  3. Protection of assets of the Authority and entering into agreements and maintenance of the 
agreements reached by the Authority. 
 24.  Out of the powers and activities cost on the General manager he can entrust and activities 
which he consider necessary to other staff ofﬁ cers. 
PART IV
Permits for the transport of passengers and goods
25.  1. No person should use a motor vehicle for the transport by passengers without a valid regular 
passenger transport service permit or an equivalently license of Authority or some charge or 
self or charging fares separately. 
  2. It is an offence under the Statute to transport passenger within the province having violated the 
provisions of Sub section (1) above. 
Recruitment of   
employment
and their 
absorption.  
Recruitment of   
employment
and their 
absorption  
Is in a statute 
of Bribery
 Act  
General              
Manager
Powers and      
Responsibilities 
of The General 
Manage
Granting           
Power by the
General 
Manager  
Passengers 
Transport 
service
Permits for
regular services
and special .

<!-- page 9 -->

9IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
  3. No person or institute should use a vehicle other than an approved vehicle on or after the due 
date or by a regular passenger transport service permit or an equivalent document scheduled 
date or thereafter under a regular transport service vehicle for transporting passengers having 
charged a fee separately. 
26.   No motor vehicle should be used for a transport service within Central Province without a 
permit issued by the Authority by or under any other permit of Authority or a valid goods 
transport service permit valid for the period on or after the date of validity of their 
27.   Any bus used for regular passenger transport should not be used with a special permit or any 
such authority obtained on the due date or thereafter which is valid for the said period should 
not be used for any other service other than the regular service within the Province.
28.  1.  A person possessing a regular passenger transport service permit has the right to use a motor 
vehicle to maintained service as agreed to in the road or roads given in the permit in accordance 
with the conditions given in the regular passenger transport service permit.
  2.  A regular passenger transport service permit to any person who is not the registered owner of 
the vehicle, should not be issued. 
  3.  As indicated in sub section 25 (3) of their Statute vehicles other than busses which have obtained 
a permit issued by the Authority for passenger transport provisions in the above sub section will 
be equally applicable. 
  In this section ‘a Motor Vehicle” means a vehicle which is engaged in passenger transport.
 29. 1. Possessing a regular good transport license and agreed to this conditions stipulated with have 
right to use a motor vehicle for the transport of goods. 
  2. A certain motor vehicle engaged in regular transport of goods will not be issue a regular goods 
transport service permit to its necessary who is not a regular goods transport service permit holder. 
   
           In this section ‘a Motor Vehicle” means a vehicles like lorry trailers. 
 30.    Every applicant who applies for a permit should send his application in the prescribed form  
   under the signature of the registered owner of the vehicle to the Authority. 
  (1) If the application is needed for a bus
  i. Its registered number, numbered seats and internal height 
  ii. Place of origin of the road which is hoped to be used for the bus, in between important bus 
halts, destinations route number and distance of the roads (roughly)
  iii. As indicated under this Statute their implementation requested by the Authority to assured 
or reject the application and to exercise the discretion of the Authority should be sent by the 
applicant. 
  (2) If the applicant is relevant to use a motor vehicle for the transport of goods.
  i. Its registered number, tare and weight of the maximum load
  ii. If a trailer has been attached to the motor vehicle, registered number of the trailer, tare, 
maximum weight of the load
  iii. For the approval or rejection of the permit as indicated in the application, other particulars 
asked for by the Authority should be supplied to than to exercise their discretion. 
Passenger      
transport
for transport 
of goods.
Special       
permits.
Regular   service
permit for the 
transport
of passengers. 
Regular  service
permit for the 
transport
of goods.
Application    
for
passenger or
goods transport
service.

<!-- page 10 -->

10 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
 31.  The Authority reserves the right to permit or reject the of a permit, renewal of a permit given 
earlier amendment grating permission to transport the rights or rejection of such actions. 
 32  The Authority should not issue any permit under this Statute unless the conditions and 
requirements orders under in Statute unless the fee ordered to the paid is paid and the conditions 
and requirements enforced are full ﬁ lled. 
 33.  In every passenger transport permit conditions and standards should be enacted to that security of 
the public god will and convenience is ensured by enacting conditions and standards as decided 
by the Authority subjects to be provisions of the Statute and orders included therein. 
 34.  Subject to the provisions of the Statute and orders given under the same, in every item a goods 
issued under the Statute and in every service permit should have public security, convenience 
and safe by of goods under the conditions and statements enacted by the Authority and they 
could be amended to suit the occasion. 
 35.  A passenger or goods transport service permit issued to a person under this Statute could be to 
another party and such orders should be enacted through the Minister 
 36.  In the case of holder of a permit wants get if renewed and submits an application to the Authority, 
the holder should prove that 
  1. He has acted according to provision of this Statute or orders made under at
  2. If the Authority is satis ﬁ ed that the holder of the permit has not been found guilty of any offence 
under the provisions of their Statute or found not guilty of some offence, he van renew that 
license for a period of one years from that date of expiry or for a period of not more than a year 
as decided by the Authority. 
37.   A person holding a permit,
  1. Has violate a provision of this permit or an order made under it
  2. If it is in revealed to the Authority that in an application made to the Authority or a certain report 
or some written information given to the Authority or a written explanation made to the Authority 
or have submitted false or wrong information, the Authority will issued an order to recover and 
amount equal to 3 times of the amount as a surcharge and a suspension order on the permit 
equivalent to 3 months or an order to cancel the permit.
  3. Under this section if this Authority issues a suspension order or a cancellation order on the permit 
holder, he should stop the transport service at once
38.   By Institute,
  1. If the Authority had rejected the award of a permit or renewing the permit or transporting it. 
  2. If a permit is cancelled or suspended or amended it or impose a surcharge or a decision or an order 
is given on it, the said decision or an order is made, the applicant or the holder of a permit should 
be informed about it.
  3. For the purposes of sub sections (1) and (2) the date of sending the order or the decision by 
registered post should be treated as the date of making that order or the decision. However, the 
date of implementation of the decision should be treated as three days after the date of sending it 
by registered post. 
Discretion 
regarding
permits.
Period    of
validity
of permits.
Conditions   
 To be 
included
In passenger
Transport Permit.
Conditions   
To be 
included In goods
Transport Permit.
Transfer        
of a Permit.
Renewal       
of a Permit.
Cancellation  or
Suspending 
of a permit.
That the 
refuses for
the decision
of the courts
should be
instituted
of the permit.

<!-- page 11 -->

11IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
 4. If an applicant or a permit holder for permits is not satis ﬁ ed with their decision or an order given 
in (1) or (2) above, he can make an appeal he should, within 14 days of the receipt of the decision 
or order, he can send written appeal against the decision or the order to the secretary of the 
Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject. 
 5. Once the appeal forwarded in terms of sub section (4) above in considered, the secretary will
  i. Allow the appeal an order the Authority to renew or allow the award of the permit, or
  ii. Reject the appeal ; or 
  iii. Can order to amend this permit or award the permit in terms of his order made by him
 6. That decision of the secretary should be intimated to the appellant or the Authority within 14 days 
of the receipt of the appeal. 
 7. An appellant or permit holder who is not satis ﬁ ed with the decision or an order given in sub 
section (4) above can make a written appeal to the minister, within 14 days of the receipt of the 
decision or the order. 
 8. The minister having considered the appeal made to him, he will 
  i. Having allowed the appeal will order the Authority to allow the award of the permit or to 
renew it or
  ii. To reject the appeal for
  iii. To amend the permit or to award in terms of his decision, 
 9. The minister’s decision on the appeal should be intimated without delay to the Authority or the 
appellant. 
 39. No more vehicles should be allowed to enter a passenger terminal or a bus stop in the province 
without a valid permit or any other permit accepted by the Authority and issued on the due date 
or thereafter by the Authority. 
PART V
The Authority should have an account belonging to it
40 1. The Authority should have an account belonging to it
 2. The following monies should be credited to the account of the Authority. 
 i. All monies allocated by the provincial council or by the central government
 ii. Monies received by the Authority of assistance, gifts, awards or loans.
 iii. Monies received on behalf of various projects
   iv. If the implementations of the activities of the Provincial Authority stationary service 
charges received by the Authority and all monies received money or charges. 
 3.      Maintenance of the account and its implementation should be subject to the provisions of this 
Statute and provisions of chapter III of provincial councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 of provincial 
council fund. 
Appeals.
Account of the
Authority.

<!-- page 12 -->

12 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
41.   General Manager responsible for the money received to an account of the Authority of the Authority
and for payments and general supervision. 
42.    Form the account of the Authority money can be spent as follows
  1. Allowances of members of the Authority 
  2. Salaries remunerations and other allowances under formal approvals of of ﬁ cers and employees 
of the Authority. 
  3. Department of funds on special projects in terms of 15 (VIII)
  4. Department of funds for enterprise development activities
  5. Development of extra structure facilities. 
  6. Human Resources Development work done in consideration of ﬁ nancial situation of the 
Authority. 
  7. Other activities decided by the Authority required for the ful ﬁ llment of powers, activities and 
responsibilities of the Authority under this Statute.
  43. 1. The Authority has the power to obtain loans for speci ﬁ c objectives with prior approval of 
the Provincial Ministry and the amount of the loan period of repayment loan control and 
conditions and instituted from which loans are to be obtained will be decided by the Provincial 
cabinet of Ministries. 
  2. Short team ﬁ nancial requirements needed by the Authority to perform, its responsibilities can 
be obtained by a draft or in any other manner with the a approval of the minister in charge of 
the subject and in terms of the orders on a temporary basis. 
  3. However the temporary loans obtained by the Authority under this section by means souls 
exceed the amount decided by its minister 
  44.   Financial year of the Authority should be a calendar year 
 45. 1. Income, expenditure, assets and liabilities of the Authority and all terminated transactions of 
the Authority can be audited from time to time by the Audit Department of the government; 
however necessary central province director of auditor also can do its auditing. 
  2. Assets liabilities for each year should be submitted to the auditor general not later than 3 
months of the end of the ﬁ nancial year in the process of auditing services of a qualiﬁ ed audit 
or auditing form can be obtained and they should act on his advice and control 
  3. For the purposed auditing in order to settle the expenses of the auditor general an amount 
decided by the chairman or general manager or an amount asked for by the Auditing section 
could be paid from the funds of the Authority. 
  4. If there is a person assisting the auditor general in the process of auditing, he and the auditor 
general should be shown all books, deeds, agreements, vouchers and all other documents 
which have a bearing on the auditing should be forwarded and all particulars which you 
consider will be necessary for the auditing should be supplied to them by your ofﬁ cer. 
General    
supervision
of receipts 
and payment. 
Usage  of funds
by the Authority.  
Obtain loan        
by the Authority.
Financial     
year.
Auditing        
of ﬁ nance
of the auditory by 
the Authority.

<!-- page 13 -->

13IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
  5.   Auditor for the purpose of activities referred to in the section is -
 i. A person possessing a certi ﬁ cate from the chartered auditors institute of Sri Lanka or 
a member of an institute which has been accepted by law or a person appointed by the 
board of control of that institute.
 ii. A term of auditing with show holders of an institute naming membership of chartered 
accountants institute of Sri Lanka or an institute established by law.
46.  1. Auditor general having inspected the accounts of the authority 
   Stating that all the documents required by him were forwarded or not
  i. He can according to his opinion submit a report saying that the provincial council should take 
some interest in conducting an inquiry regarding the accounts of the Authority or any other 
matter pertaining to accounts. 
  ii. Auditor general will send his report to the secretary of the ministry with accounts audited by 
him.
  iii.  On receipt of the audit report containing assets and liabilities, of the account for each year, 
the secretary will send the report accounts audited regarding assets and liabilities and the 
statement of the Authority regarding annual activities of the Authority to the minister in charge 
of the subject of transport and he should take action to their copies within four months after the 
end of the relevant ﬁ nancial year to the provincial council. 
 47.  The Subject of a Transport and he should take action to send their copies within four months 
after the end of the relevant ﬁ nancial year to the Provincial Council.
PART VI
General provision
 48. 1.  The minister can issue general or special provisions to the Authority regarding the 
implementations of its powers and the Authority should impotent those provision. 
  2. The minister can order the Authority to submit from time to time term reports, accounts and 
other information regarding the activities of the Authority in a formal ordered by him and the 
Authority should fulﬁ ll all general recruits 
  49.   A person who has been authorized by the Authority or possesses some authority can at any 
time within the central province at any place.
  1. Can enter a motor vehicle which is transporting goods or passengers and check whether it 
has got the authority from neither the Statute nor any other institute and whether the vehicle 
possessed the relevant conditions or the driver conductor or vehicle assistant possesses them, 
or whether they have followed in orders of this Statute or regulations. 
  2.  Can order the driver of the vehicle, conductor or vehicle assistant or the person in charge; or
   ii. He can take charge the license or other documents or its copies when a document like  
  that is taken, you should give a receipt. 
  3. You can inspect the driving license issued by the Department of Motor Traf ﬁ c the annual 
revenue license or any other relevant documents. 
Auditor General’s
Report.
Submission of 
reports of 
accounts and 
annual reports
to the ministers.
Power            
to the
Minister.
Getting   into
the vehicle
and inspection.

<!-- page 14 -->

14 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
50 (I) i. All actions done by the Authority in good faith under their Statute; or
  ii. Under this Statute some members of ﬁ cer or a servant of the Authority does some action on its 
order of the Authority in good faith or does not do something necessary, no civil or criminal 
action could be taken against of such member, ofﬁ cer or servant
  2. In a civil or criminal case against the authority any expenses incurred by the Authority could be 
paid from the funds of the Authority, in a civil or criminal case, any expenses or compensation 
recovered by the Authority should be credited to the fund of the Authority. If the of ﬁ cer is 
personally responsible for the, the board of directors in responsible for taking a decision on 
the matter. 
 51(1) 1. Some of ﬁ cer who is authorized by the Authority or the authority given by a license under this 
Statute, a motor vehicle transporting passengers or goods if any of the provisions given in the 
Statute, has been breached and if the breach is liable to be charged with a local service charge 
and if there is a person who takes its responsibility of his own free will, instead of ﬁ ling action 
against him, it is possible to him with the management service charge instead of ﬁ ling action 
against him. An authorized of ﬁ cer or any other suitable of ﬁ cer should inform the authority 
giving the route with the members of motor vehicles. 
  2. Such a local service charge having been paid to the authority or a sub of ﬁ ce of the Authority 
to be credited to the fund of the authority as evidence within two weeks of ﬁ nding the fault of 
the relevant receipt should be forwarded to the authority. 
 52.       The Authority can issue recommendations to facilitate purchase of buses and in terms of the              
Government policy solely for the beneﬁ t of the transport service. 
  53.   1. The ministers can make orders for the implementations of the recommendations of this 
Statute and give effect to them
  2. Without prejudice to the powers offered by the above sub section No. (01) Above the 
ministers can make orders to each matter together or separately. 
  i.  Matter for which authority is given to make orders under this Statute.
  ii. Issue of permits and other authorities, renewal amending, granting rights and af ﬂ icted 
matters thereto procedure to be followed and the forms to be used and deciding on the 
charges. 
  iii. According to the suitability and usage of roads transport of passage and transport of 
goods and deciding on the type of motor vehicles to be used in those roads and procedure 
to be followed in the use of motor vehicle on those roads. 
  iv. In a vehicle used under the authority of a license, the documents to be carried by the 
driver conductor vehicle assistant or the person in charge of the vehicle and particulars 
to be and should be included in them. 
  v. Reports to be kept regarding the number of trips done by the buses under a permanent 
passenger transport service license.
  vi. Standards to be followed by a person who is using a vehicle under the power of license. 
  
  vii. Records to be kept by license holders who start the service and terminate the service 
including the interval taken by those drivers, conductors and vehicle assistants in buses 
by those who use regular passenger and goods transport licenses. 
Protection    from
being ﬁ ling
action.
Local Service 
Charges.
Recommending
for the 
purchase 
of buses.
Making             
Command
under
Statute.

<!-- page 15 -->

15IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
  viii. The reports kept in this manner should be kept safely and a person authorized by the 
Authority should inspect them and person who was    should forward them for inspection.
  ix. Registration renewal of registration cancellation and suspension of driver’s conductors 
and vehicle assistants who are engaged in passenger transport and goods transport under 
the authority of license have to prepare the procedure. 
  x. Under the Authority of permits, the drivers and conductors regular passenger transport 
service who should wear the uniforms and medals should be order to do so along with 
the disciplinary matters that they should follow whilst on passenger transport duty.
  xi. Regarding the management of buses while they are parked at parking places especially 
when they are coordinated and time keeping of buses is in progress. 
  xii. School vans, trishaws and hiring vehicles under a passenger transport license or any 
other authority within the province which are not covered by any other law should be 
decided, proved and amended. 
  xiii. Procedure to be followed by buses which possess inter provincial license and are engaged 
in transporting passengers the procedure that should be followed by them. Bus fares 
have to be decided and regulations should be enacted. 
  3. All orders made under Section (I) should be prohibited in the gazette and they will be 
effective W. E. F. the date of the order or W. E. F. some other date given in the order. 
  4. All orders made under Sub section (I) should be submitted to the provincial council for 
approval within one month of their publication and if there are orders which have not 
been approved, it should be treated as cancelled without harming any act done under 
into.
  5. If there is any order which has been rescinded, it should be published in the G azette again 
along with the date. 
PART VII
Offences and penalties
 54 (1) i. A passenger travelling in a bus with a valid ticket is used offensive or insulting words in an 
ugly and impulsive manner in words or signals the driver or conductor of the bus who resort 
to that type of behavior. 
  ii. A bus which is used for transporting passengers has electrical gadgets which and disturbing 
sounds, in excess of the approved level; a person possessing a ticket driver or conductor.
  iii. Without registering in the authority as a driver, conductor or an assistant or even when his 
registration has been cancelled any person engaged in the transport, passengers or goods.  
 
  iv.       (a) A ticket issued with the permission of the Authority or under it is being 
  used fraudulently or get another person to use it
  (b) A similar ticket fraudulently imitated or changing its nature, distorted or ruin
  (c) A ticket like that selling without permission of the authority, supplying distributing or 
forwarding for sale
Offence.

<!-- page 16 -->

16 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
  (d) Supposed to have printed such a ticket or printing a used ticket.
  (e) A person transporting passengers without issuing a ticket or without the permission of 
the authority or a without issuing a valid ticket. 
  v. A person purposely displaying notices at a bus halt belonging to the authority or a building 
situated at another place or a passengers shed or displaying notices pasting notices or writing 
characters, words or drawing pictures or pasting photographs or other symbols and displaying 
notices or purposely making them dirty 
   Will be guilty of an offence under this Statute and when a case in ﬁ led against him in a 
magistrates courts and informed guilty he will ﬁ nes Rs. 20,000 or equivalent and six months 
imprisonments or both. 
   Hence if it has paid a local services fee ordered by the authority, he will not be subject to the 
provision of the above section. 
  2.  If in a bus for which the authority has issued a passenger transport service license or under any 
other authority a bus which in employed in transporting passengers. 
   i. If travelling is a bus without a license issued by the authority or by any other institute a 
ticket or any other authority. 
   ii. If the ticket issued for the journey is not retained by him till the end of the journey or
   iii. A passenger who refuses to submit the ticket when demanded or refuses to hand it over 
any authorized person asks for it and refuses to hand over or to be show it when demanded.
    he will be guilty under this Statute and after a simple hearing and informed guilty by 
a magistrate he will have to pay a penalty of not less than Rs. 10,000 and 3 months 
imprisonment or both.
    However he pays a service charge ordered by the authority the provisions the above 
section will not apply to him. 
  3. If a person travels by a transport service, in a bus with a ticket issued by the Authority or buy 
any other institute. 
   i.     If he reject to pay the fare due from him.
    
   ii.  When he arrives at the destination, if he refuses to set down from the bus or neglects it
   iii. If he uses a language of insult and indecent and provocative language or uses indecent 
signs or conduct he will be guilty of an offence under this authority and if he will be  at a 
magistrate courser and found guilty he will be subject to an offence punishable with not 
less that Rs. 10,000 after a simple trial or 3 months in  or both in one of the two ways. 
    However it has paid a simple service charge the provisions of the above section will not 
apply to him.
  4. Any person who commits an offence punishable under (1), (2) and (3) of this chapter could 
be taken into legal custody by any police of ﬁ cer and the person who was taken into custody 
should be produced before a magistrate in order rake legal action.  
 55.   Any person who submits a false or wrong report or a written information or written explanation 
will be found guilty under this Statute and at s simple trial before a magistrate if found guilty, 
he will be subject to a ﬁ ne of not less than Rs. 10,000/- or 3 months in one of two ways or both. 
Taking
Into custody a
Guilty
person.
Submission     
of wrong
reports.

<!-- page 17 -->

17IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
56.  1. It is a punishable offence to take passengers from bus halts without approved shouting at the 
top of the voice to collect passengers and acting in a manner that obstructing the duties of 
ofﬁ cers of the authority. On such occasion police ofﬁ cers or ofﬁ cers of the authority can offer a 
simple trial before a magistrate if found guilty he will have to pay a ﬁ ne not less that Rs. 10,000 
or 3 months  in two ways or both 
  2. Transport of passengers should not be done without a license issued by the Authority and 
doing such an act is a punishable offence under Statute. On such an occasion police ofﬁ cers or 
ofﬁ cers of the authority can ﬁ le action against them in a magistrate count. 
  3.(i) Without the alicense issued by the authority, employees should not be transported to schools, 
factories or places of work, it in a punishable offenc under this Statute. In such an instance, the 
police or the ofﬁ cer of the Authority cab take legal action against such persons an if ﬁ led action 
in a magistrate council and in simple trial before magistrate, if found guilty he in liable to pay 
a ﬁ ne of not less than Rs. 10,000 or 3 months imprisonment or both imprisonment and ﬁ ne.
  (ii) Without a valid license form the Authority, Passenger should not be transport in three wheels 
and it is a punishable offence under this statute. In such an instance the Police or Ofﬁ cer of the 
Authority can take legal action against them in relevant court of law and if found is liable to 
pay a ﬁ ne of not less than Rs. 10,000 and 3 months imprisonment in one of the two ways or 
both way and imprisonment.
  4. Without a license from the Authority, transport of goods is a punishable offence. In such and 
instance the police or the ofﬁ cer of the Authority can take legal action against the such persons 
and ﬁ le action in a magistrate court and after simple hearing of the case, if found guilty, he is 
liable to pay a ﬁ ne of not less than Rs. 10,000 and 3 monts imprisonment in one of the two 
ways and both ﬁ ne and imprisonment.
57.   When the Authority is implementing the authority given under the Statute performing the tasks 
and activities entrusted to it and when an of ﬁ cer authorized by the Authority is performing 
such tasks and activities a person obstructing, interfering or working against such action, or 
showing resistance or trying to do so will be an of ﬁ ce under this Statute and if taken before a 
magistrate and ﬁ le action and in a simple hearing before a magistrate if found guilty will be  
liable to pay a time of not less that Rs., 50,000 or not less than one years imprisonment in any 
of the two ways and both time and imprisonment.  
  58.  If any person violates any orders some command or an order given under the 01 act in 
contravention of orders is committing an offence under this Statute and when the said offence 
is not treated as a special penalty by this Statute if action in a court of law before a magistrate, 
if found guilty, he is liable to pay a ﬁ ne of not less than Rs. 10,000 or 3 months imprisonment.
 59.  If an of ﬁ cer employee is granted permission by the Authority to legal action regarding the 
offence s under this Statute by a written document, should be treated as public of ﬁ cer under 
chapter 136 of criminal procedure code No. 15 of 1979
PART VIII
Removal and interim provision
 60.  Unless the ministry decide otherwise the orders and regulations made under road passenger 
transport service chapter No. 04 of 1992 and the central province passenger transport service 
authority Statute No. 01 of 2000 are not contrary to provisions of this Statute valid orders and 
regulations will be in force until regulations will be in force until regulations are enacted under 
this Statute. 
Bus Halting 
Places.
Driving Without 
a License.
Other common
 passenger
transport
services.
Transport of
 goods.
General   
Penalties.
Granting     
Authority to
File action.
Regulations      
(Orders)
Under removed
Statute.
obstracting The 
Authority or 
using force.

<!-- page 18 -->

18 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
 61.  However until the minister appoints member of the Authority under section 04 of this Statute 
All members of the Central Province Passenger Transport Service Authority No. 01 of 2000 
holding membership until the day prior to the implementation of this chapter should be trated 
as members appointed under this chapter.
  62. 1. All of ﬁ cers and other employees who were in employment before the date prior to the 
scheduled under central province passenger transport service authority statute and of ﬁ cer 
employees who are employed under orders and conditions which are not lower than the orders 
and conditions that they are enjoy should be treated as employees of the authority. The service 
of those employees should not be terminated in any manner other than under legal reason.    
  2. On the day prior to the scheduled date, the said authority established under central province 
passenger transport service authority Statute inclusive of its all funds inclusive of its all 
funds including its movable and immovable property should be treated as the property of the 
Authority and property should be the property of the Authority. 
  3. On the day prior to the scheduled date, central province passenger transport service authority 
established under central province passenger transport service authority No. 01 of 2000 all 
obligations and responsibilities regarding employees provident fund employees trust fund and 
gratitude including all contracts and agreements should be treated as contracts and agreement 
of the authority.
  4.  On the day prior to the schedules date central province passenger transport service authority 
No. 01 of 2000 has ﬁ led some cases in a court of law or a tribunal and a case, request or an 
appeal have been ﬁ led against the Authority it should be treated as a case, request or an appeal 
against the authority and they can be maintained or terminated. 
  5. On the day prior to the scheduled date in a case or an appeal made by or ﬁ led against the 
central province passenger transport services authority established under central province 
passenger transport service chapter No. 01 of 2000 as reported by a court of law or tribunal 
authority or awarded by and on the day prior to the scheduled date if not complexly or penalty 
furnished and if a verdict is awaited which has been given for an against the authority, is 
should be treated as a verdict reported or awarded, it should be  treated as a verdict or award 
given in terms of the civil procedure code or verdict or award given under any other Statute.  
  6. Under the provisions of the central province road passenger transport service chapter                           
No. 4 of 1992 or central province passenger transport service authority chapter No. 01 of 
2000 or treated as a passenger transport service license, a day prior to the effecting this chapter 
a passenger transport service license or any other document issued under this Statute, earlier 
but not cancelled should be treated as a passenger transport service license during the period 
of its validity. 
 63.   If there is a difference in meaning of these Sinhala Tamil and English versions of this document, 
the Sinhala document prevails. 
 64.  Unless it is required to have another meaning in the context of this document.
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of Transport services of the cabinet of ministers of the 
Central Provincial Council 
“Cabinet” means the Cabinet of Ministers of the Central Provincial Council
“Province” means the Central Province .
“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council ofﬁ cer means all employess serving 
in the Authority including members of the Board of Directors of Central Province 
Transport Services Authority.
Interpretation          
Employees
of the
Authority.
Provisions For all
Agreements
Rights obligations 
responsibilities 
and cases ﬁ led 
and existing.

<!-- page 19 -->

19IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
“A senior ofﬁ cer” means an ofﬁ cer of not less than Grade II of Sri Lanka Administrative Service 
or a post in Parallel Service
“Permit” means Passenger Service Permit goods service permit special service permit 
passenger transport service permit road permit permanent transport service permit 
school services permit factory transport services permit means a permit issued giving 
authority for the transport of passengers or goods under any name or this chapter or 
under any other written laws. Charging a fare, gift, beneﬁ t or separate charges used in 
transporting people or goods giving the necessary authority. 
“Transport services” means any vehicle transporting people or goods.
“Bus halt” means passenger terminals situated in Province and it also include bus halting places 
within Central Province Gazette under No. 1169 and bus halts within Central Province 
belonging to the Authority and places along the roads where buses are stopped.  
“Gazette” means the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
“Local Government Institute” means a Municipal Council Urban Council, Town Council or 
Pradeshiya Sabawa.
“Bus and Omni bus” means a motor coach registered as a bus ion the Motor Vehicle Act and it 
also includes a dual purpose vehicle. 
“Passenger means” a person travelling in a hiring vehicle, a bus school service bus or a van, 
factory bus or a van but if a driver or bus conductor or vehicle assistant are not 
included in this category. 
“Separate fares” means fare paid by a person who is entitled to be taken in a bus.
“Motor coach” means a motor vehicle interpreted in the motor vehicle transport act.
Motor car is a motor vehicle as interpreted in the motor vehicles transport act.
Lorry is a motor vehicle interpreted in the motor vehicle transport act.
“Trailers” means a trailer interpreted in the motor vehicle transport act.
“Hire” means a vehicle given on hire to people having kept than on therefore or any other place
“Passenger transport service” means all vehicles carrying people, school children and of ﬁ ce     
and other passengers charging a fee.
“Formal scheme” means the scheme of recruitment approved by the Government Manager 
Service Department.

<!-- page 20 -->

20 IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
Kandy District
Serial 
No.
Bus Stand Extent
A. R. P.
1 Bogambara Bus Stand
2 Deltota Bus Stand 0 2 17'06
3 Ampitiya Bus Stand 0 0 24'27
4 Nawalapitiya Bus Stand 0 2 27'81
5 Thalatuoya Bus Stand 1 17'34
6 Ankumbura Bus Stand 0 0 17'68
7 Panvila Bus Stand 0 1 6'93
8 Gelioya Bus Stand 0 3 12'76
9 Weligalle Bus Stand 0 0 21'51
10 Gampola Bus Stand 0 2 27'77
11 Good shead Main Bus Stand 2 31'45
12 Pottapitiya Bus Stand 0 0 36'13
13 Good Shead Private Bus Stand 0 0 29'22
14 Wattegama Bus Stand 0 2 24'02
15 Penideniya Bus Stand 0 0 4'03
16 Kadugannawa Bus Stand 0 1 26'5
17 Haragama  Bus Stand 0 1 22'59
18 Karalliyadda Bus Stand 0 2 4'45
19 Digana Bus Stand 2 2 25'13
20 Clock Tower Bus Stand 0 2 36'95
21 Torrington Bus Stand 0 14'1
22 Peradeniya Bus Stand 0 0 29'24
23 Mahakandha Bus Stand 0 0 4'78
24 Katugasthota Bus Stand 0
25 Bokkawala Bus Stand 0 1 5'7
26 Menikhinna Bus Stand 0 0 28'07
27 Alawathugoda Bus Stand 0 0 7'98
28 Polgolla Bus Stand 0 0 10'6
29 Hasalaka Bus Stand 0 2 21'05
30 Ganhatha Bus Stand 0 0 17'16
31 Pussellawa Bus Stand 0 18'78
32 Galagedara Bus Stand 0 1 7'57
33 Medawala Bus Stand 0 0 26'73
34 Amunugama Bus Stand 0 0 26'73
Schedule 01

<!-- page 21 -->

21IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
 Matale District
Serial 
No.
Bus Stand Extent
A. R. P.
1 Naula Bus Stand 0 3 6'4
2 King Street Bus Stand 0 1 2'86
3 Hettipola Bus Stand 1 0 23'69
4 Rattota Bus Stand
5 Gongawela Bus Stand 0 3 4'62
6 Nugasewana Bus Stand 0 1 13'8
7 Dambulla Bus Stand 2 2 33'68
8 Galewela Bus Stand -- -
9 Laggala Bus Stand -- -
10 Hettipola Bus Stand - - 23'69
 Nuwara Eliya Distrct
Serial 
No.
Bus Stand Extent
A. R. P.
1 Maskeliya Bus Stand 0 1 19.82
2 Samimale Bus Stand 0 0 29.89
3 Thalawakele Bus Stand 0 1 34.6
4 Dayagama Bus Stand 0 1 1.07
5 Hatton Bus Stand
6 Nildandahinna Bus Stand 0 2 18.96
7 Nuwaraeliya Bus Stand 1 2 7.33
8 Hanguranketha Bus Stand 0 2 13.55
9 Walapane Bus Stand 0 3 20.03
10 Ragala Bus Stand
11 Nallathanniya Bus Stand
12 Pundaluoya Bus Stand 0 0 13.48
13 Ginigathhena Bus Stand 0 0 31.94
14 Kotmale Bus Stand 0 2 15.36
15 Nuwaraeliya Private Bus Stand 0 1 -
16 Rikillagaskada Bus Stand 0 2 -1.22
17 Bogawanthalawa Bus Stand 0 2.5 -17.8
18 Padiyapelella Bus Stand 0 3 -
09 - 639
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.