

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2397$51 - 2024 wf.daia;= ui 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024'08'15
No. 2397/51 -  thursday,   august  15 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- EPg 6834 - 104 (08/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PRESIDENTIAL   ELECTION  - 2024
PrEsidENtial ElEctioNs act, No. 15 of 1981
Notice Under Section 21
NoticE  is hereby given under section 21 of the Presidential Elections act, No. 15 of 1981 that 
a.	 the Candidates mention in the schedule below are contested in the election of the Office of President
b.	 a poll for such election will be held on saturday the 21st september, 2024 between 7.00 a.m. to 4.00 p.m.; and
c. the names of the candidates at such election in the order in which such names will be printed on the ballot papers, 
the symbol allotted to each such candidate and the name of the recognized political party/ other political party 
or the name of the elector nominating each such candidate, are as specified in the schedule hereto. 
 R. M. A. L. Rathnayake, M. A. P. C. Perera, Ameer Faaiz,  
 chairman, Member, Member,  
 Election commission. Election commission. Election commission.  
  A. Shanmuganathan, Prof. Lakshman Dissanayake,
  Member, Member,
  Election commission. Election commission.
at Election commission,
sarana  Mawatha, 
rajagiriya,
15
th august, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2024
2a
schEdulE
Name of c andidate 
As in the ballot paper
Name of r ecognized political party/ other 
political party/ Name of the E lector 
nominating the candidate
Symbol
akmeemana dayarathana thero delkandura arachchilage sanjeewa Kumara 
gunaratne
Black Board
abubakar Mohamed infas democratic unity alliance
t wo leaves
siripala amarasinghe Mailan achchige don asanka Nandana srinath
t yre
idroos Mohamed illias K. M. N. sanjaya sampath reman
syringe
K. K. Piyadasa archana ranatunge
calculator
sarath Keerthirathna sarath athukorala
foot Ball
K. a. Kularatna Mapalagama liyanage don theekshana 
abeywardhana
Medal
K. r. Krishan arunalu Peoples alliance
Water t ap
Pallimulla Kapugamage anura sidney 
Jayarathna
M. M. g. Nandika Pradeep Kumara
Jackfruit


<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2024
3a
Name of c andidate 
As in the ballot paper
Name of r ecognized political party/ other 
political party/ Name of the E lector 
nominating the candidate
Symbol
dilith Jayaweera communist Party of sri lanka
star
siritunga Jayasuriya united socialist Party 
t ri-shaw
Mylvaganam thilakarajah arokyam Prancis
Bird feather
agampodi Prasanga suranjeewa anoj 
de silva
democratic united National front
Eagle
lalith de silva united National freedom front
comb of Plantains
ajantha de Zoysa ruhunu Janatha alliance
Pineapple
anura Kumara dissanayake Jathika Jana Balawegaya
compass
Mahinda dewage socialist Party of sri lanka
Balloon
ariyanethiran Pakkiyaselvam thavachelvam sitparan
conch shell
Victor Perera herath Mudiyanselage asitha Bandara
Motor Bicycle


<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2024
4a
Name of c andidate 
As in the ballot paper
Name of r ecognized political party/ other 
political party/ Name of the E lector 
nominating the candidate
Symbol
anuruddha Polgampala hettiya Kandage ananda sunil shantha 
fernando
horse shoe
sajith Premadasa samagi Jana Balawegaya
t elephone
sarath fonseka chameera dinesh gallearachchi
lantern
dissanayaka Mudiyanselage 
Bandaranayake
d. M. dhananjaya Bandara deegalla
t able fan
sarath Bandaranayake Jathika sangwardhena Peramuna
coconut
Baththaramulle seelarathana thero Jana setha Peramuna
t ractor
Nuwan Bopege socialist Peoples forum
umbrella
sarath Manamendra Nawa sihala urumaya
Bow and arrow
Pemasiri Manage h. N. K. Kasun gayashan
Pair of spectacles
anuruddha roshan ranasinghe sarath Nanda silva
cricket Bat


<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2024
5a
Name of c andidate 
As in the ballot paper
Name of r ecognized political party/ other 
political party/ Name of the E lector 
nominating the candidate
Symbol
Janaka ratnayake Eksath lanka Podujana Pakshaya
cup
Namal rajapaksha samabima Party
Envelope
Namal rajapaksa sri lanka Podujana Peramuna
flower Bud
Wijeyadasa rajapakshe National democratic front
Motor c ar
a. s. P. liyanage sri lanka labour Party
Kangaroo
Keerthie Wickramaratne ape Janabala Pakshaya
flag
Priyantha Wickramasinghe Nawa sama s amaja Party
t able
ranil Wickremesinghe channa lalin Wickramasinghe
gas cylinder
Pani Wijesiriwardena socialist Equality Party
Pair of scissors
oshala herath New independent front
t ill
 Eog 08-0250
PriNtEd at  thE dEP artMENt  of goVErNMENt  PriNtiNg,  sri laNKa.