

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2238$39 - 2021 cQ,s ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'07'30
No. 2238/39  -   FRIDAY ,   JULY   30,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  G  34815— 45  (08/2021)
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No.  14  OF  2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008,
as amended (SDP Act), I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation, do by this
Notification :
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the Development and Operation
of West Container Terminal- 1 (hereinafter referred to as “WCT-1”) project under the Colombo Port Expansion
project with an envisaged investment of USD 650 million with the aim of consolidating Colombo Port’s position
as a transshipment hub for the South Asian Region by providing sufficient container handling capacity and adequate
depth for new-generation vessels. The project is proposed to be undertaken on a Build, Operate and Transfer
(hereinafter referred to as BOT) basis for a period of thirty-five (35) years as a Private-Public-Partnership
(PPP) with M/s Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited, India, John Keells Holdings PLC and Sri Lanka
Ports Authority.
(2) Further, declare that the project will be implemented and commenced commercial operations in three (03)
phases as follows:
Phase I
Construction of 600 m of the quay wall and terminal area including requisite infrastructure as specified in
the BOT Agreement, which is to be completed and commenced operation within a period of thirty-six (36)
months from the date of the BOT Agreement to be signed between the project company and the Sri Lanka
Ports Authority.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
2A
Phase II
Completion of the full length of the quay wall of 1,400 m including requisite infrastructure as specified in the
BOT Agreement, which is to be completed and commenced operation within forty-eight (48) months from the
date of the BOT Agreement.
Phase III
Completion of the terminal as specified in the BOT Agreement, which is to be completed and commenced
operation within sixty (60) months from the date of the BOT Agreement.
(3) Declare that the envisaged investment of the project is US$ 650 million and is expected to be financed on a Debt
to Equity ratio of 70:30 and the entire portion of debt is expected to be financed by a foreign loan.
(4) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid Project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of
2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in Schedule of this Notification shall apply to the Project Company and its
contractors and sub-contractors as approved by the Board of lnvestment of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as
“BOI”).
SCHEDULE
1. Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(i) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 relating to the imposition of income tax on the
Project Company on the profits and gains generated from the activities from the said Project shall not
apply for a period of twenty-five (25) years (“Tax Exemption Period”)
The said tax exemption period shall commence from the first year in which the Project Company makes
taxable profits or two (02) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever occurs earlier.
Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period income tax in respect of the profits,
gains and income of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue
Act for the time being in force.
(ii) Dividends distributed and received by shareholders out of the exempted profit, gains shall be exempted
from the income tax during the said Tax Exemption Period of twenty-five (25) years and one (01) year
thereafter.
(iii) The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following:
a. interest on foreign loans taken for the capital expenditure
b. technical fees to consultants employed in the project.
(iv) The expatriate employees of the project company shall be exempted from the income tax arising from the
gains and profits from employment in relation to the aforesaid project for a period of five (05) years
subject to a maximum number of  20 expatriates.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
3A
2. The Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 (V AT Act)
All imports of project related goods required for the implementation of the project as approved by the BOI, shall
be exempted from the payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) during the project implementation period of five (05)
years from the date of the BOT Agreement.
V AT on local purchases of project related goods or services during the project implementation period shall be
deferred.
Thereafter the payment of V A T will be zero rated if the services provided fall within a the provisions of paragraph (b)
or (c) of subsection (1) of Section 7 of the V AT Act. Any other services, other than the services which are zero rated,
will be liable to payment of V AT at the normal rate.
3. The Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The Project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy
(PAL), on the project related goods as approved by the BOI imported during the Project Implementation Period
of five (05) years from the date of the BOT Agreement.
4. Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979
Import of project related items as approved by the BOI shall be exempted from the payment of CESS during the
Project Implementation Period of five (05) years from the date of the BOT Agreement.
5. Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
All Imports of Project related Items (other than the items listed in the Negative List published by the Ministry of
Finance) as approved by the BOI, shall be exempted 
 from the payment of Customs Import Duty (CID), during the
project implementation period of five (05) years from the date of the BOT Agreement.
However, any importation of items in the Negative List shall be considered by the BOI where such items are
either not wholly produced in Sri Lanka or are not available in sufficient quality, quantity and time line for project
completion.
M
AHINDA RAJAPAKSA, M. P.
Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation.
Ministry of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation,
July 30, 2021.
08 - 329
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.