

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
1
1
wxl 1"635 - 2010 ckjdß ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'01'01
No. 1,635 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 01, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 4
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 6
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 08th January, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th
December, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
4
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th February, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
14th December, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary’ s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Anuradhapuraya Kekirawa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in District Secretary/Additional
Kekirawa area of Kalagam Palatha Registr ar General, District
Division Secretariat, Anuradhapuraya
01–164
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Tamil Medium
NUWARA-ELIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium the Divisions set out in t he
Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
5
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th February, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
14th December, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary’ s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya Post of Birth and Death Medical Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
Nuwara Eliya Town Division Registrar General, District
(Tamil Medium) Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya Post of Birth and Death Medical Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
Thalawakele Lindula Division Registra r General, District
(Tamil Medium) Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya Post of Birth and Death Medical Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
Thalawakele Agarapathana Division Registra r General, District
(Tamil Medium) Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
Nuwara Eliya Ambagamuwa Post of Birth and Death Registrar of Hatton District Secretary/Additional
Division and Marriages (General) of Registrar General, District
Ambagamuwa Koralaya (Tamil Medium) Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
Nuwara Eliya Kotmale Post of Birth and Death Registrar of Ramboda District Secretary/Additional
Division and Marriages (General) of Registrar General, District
Kotmale (Tamil Medium) Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
Nuwara Eliya Kotmale Post of Birth and Death Registrar of Pallepane District Secretary/Additional
Division and Marriages (General) of Registrar General, District
Kotmale (Tamil Medium) Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
Nuwara Eliya Kotmale Post of Birth and Death Registrar of Medapane District Secretary/Additional
Division and Marriages (General) of Registrar General, District
Kotmale (Tamil Medium) Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya
01-136

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
6
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MANNAR  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th of January, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
26th November, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary’ s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Mannar Mannar Town Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in District Secretary/Additional
Mannar Town Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Mannar
01–04
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION & HOME
AFFAIRS
Registrar General’s Department
RECRUITMENT TO THE GRADE III OF THE
REGISTRARS  SERVICE  - 2009
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for Recruitment to the Posts
of Registrar Grade III of the Registrars’ Service in the Registrar
General’s Department.
02. Examination.– The Examination will be held in Colombo by
the Commissioner General of examinations in April, of 2010. The
Head of Department holds rights to postpone or cancel the
examination.
03. Conditions of Service.– Recruitments to the Grade III posts
of the general Registrar’s will be made subject to the general
conditions governing appointments in the public service and on the
following conditions.
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The Selected
candidates should make contribution to the Widow/
Widower & Orphans Pension fund. They are also subject
to the Establishments Code and Financial Regulations.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
7
(ii) Sections 10 to 12 of chapter II of the Establishments
Code will also apply on this regard.
(iii) An Officer appointed to service should undergo a training
as determined by the secretary of the relevant Ministry.
(iv) New entrant officer to the public service will be subject
to a probation period of three(03) years.
(v) Candidates who are already in public service will be
appointed on acting basis for one year.
(vi) The candidates should pass the written Efficiency Bar
Examination before lapse of 3 years from appointment.
No exemption from this Efficiency bar will be granted on
the basis of age.
(vii) On confirmation in the post the officers selected from the
Public Service will cease to be a member of the former
service and will have no right of reversion to that service.
04. Salary Scale.– MN - 4-2006 - Rs. 15,215 - 10X215-4X240-
7X320-15X360- Rs. 25,965. (circular 6/2006 (iv)).
5. Age Limit.–  Applicants should not be less than 22 years and
not more than 40 years of age on the closing date of application.
The upper age limit will not apply to the officers already in the
Public Service.
06. Educational Qualifications. - The following qualifications
should have been completed as at 28.01.2010.
6.1 External Candidates:-
Graduates from the recognized Universities.
6.2 Internal Candidates:-
(a) Be a Class - I Officer of the Management Assistant’s
Service with a satisfactory service of 05 years
preceding the closing date of  applications ; or
(b) Be a Class - II Officer of the Management Assistant’s
Service with a service period Of 08 years out of
within 05 year should be satisfactory service as
state above.
Note:” satisfactory service” in this paragraph means
the period of 05 years preceding from the date
of calling for applications during which the
candidate and earned all increments and He/She
has not been subject to any disciplinary
punishment excluding warning.
07.  Method of recruitment :
(i) External Candidates
(ii) Internal Candidates
Selections will be made at an interview held for the highest
scorers of the competitive Examination conducted by
the Commissioner General if Examination for the
qualified candidates who were selected after calling for
applications through a notice in the Government Gazette/
Public Newspapers. 40% of marks should be obtained
in order to pass the Examination. Candidates who have
the highest aggregate of marks will be summered for an
interview in the descending order of such marks. The
interview will be held only for the purpose of scrutiny
of certificates.
08. Examination Fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 400.
The receipt obtained on payment of this fee to the District /
Divisional Secretariat under the revenue Head No.20-03-20-13 the
Commissioner General of Examinations before the closing date of
applications should be pasted in the relevant place given in the
application. The fee is not refundable. Retaining a photocopy of
the receipt with the candidate will be useful in future.
09. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in conformity with the
specimen appended to this notice. Name of Examination
indicated at the top of the specimen application should
be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the Sinhala
application and should be written in English in addition
to Tamil in the Tamil application. It should be prepared
on a paper sized 8 1/2" x 12" using both sides. Nos. 1-7
in the specimen application should be included in page
01 and the rest in page 02. The application which are not
in conformity with the specimen and incomplete
applications will be rejected without prior notice. It may
be useful to retain a photocopy of the application by the
candidate.
(b) The application should be filled in the language in which
the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
(c) The applications for the post should be sent under the
registered cover to the Commissioner General of
Examinations Sri Lanka, Department of Examinations,
Palawatta, Battaramulla, on or before the 28.01.2010.
“Competitive Examination Grade II posts in the
Registrars Service” should be clearly indicated on the
top left corner of the envelope containing the application,
Applications received after this date will not be accepted.
Note :- Candidates in the public Service/Provincial public
service should send their applications through the
respective Heads of their Department/
Organization.
(d) Applications which are complete in every respect may
be rejected. No complains regarding lost or delayed
applications in the post will be entertained.
(e) Receipt of an applications will not be acknowledged.
Admission cards will be send by to the candidates by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. A notice in
this regard will be published on newspapers. If the
candidate has not received the admission card after 02 or
03 days since the newspaper notice, he/she should inform
the Department of Examinations in the manner stated in

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
8
that notice. It may be more effective to submit your
notification along with the photocopy of the application,
cash receipt, registered receipt and a fax number if any
for sending the admission card if you are outside
Colombo.
10. Admission to the Examination centre :
(i) A candidate presenting himself/herself for the examination
must produce his/her admission in which her signature
has been duly attested to the Head of Examination centre.
A candidate who fails to do so will not be permitted to
sit for the examination.
(ii) Every candidate should sit the examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him and follow the general
rules to the observed by the candidates.
(iii) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination.
11. Identity of the Candidate .– A candidate must prove his/her
identity to the satisfaction of the Head of Examination Centre for
each subject he/she offers. One of the following documents will
only be accepted for this purpose.
(i) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii)  A valid passport issued not more than three years prior
to the date of examination.
12. Furnishing False Information  :
(a) If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to or during or
after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished
by a Candidate, who is in the Public Service, is found to
be false with his knowledge or if he has willfully
suppressed any important fact, he will be liable to
dismissal from the Public Service.
(b) The candidates are subject to the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
regarding the conduct of the Examinations and those
who violate such rules and regulations will be subject to
any punishment determined to the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
14. Method of Examination :
I. Medium :
(a) The candidate may apply for the Examination in one
of the three mediums. Ie; Sinhala/Tamil/English.
(b) Every candidates should answer the question papers
in the language which is stated in the application.
(Except the English language)
(c) No candidate will be allowed to change the medium of
language indicated in his/her application.
II. Subjects and syllabus :
A examination with consists of the following subjects :-
Subject Time Marks
(i) Language and Essay Time 1.00 hr 100
(Sinhala/ Tamil)
(ii) Intelligence Time 1.00 hr 100
(iii) General knowledge Time 1.00 hr 100
(iv) English Language Time 1.00 hr 100
1. The Language and Essay question paper which is
prepared to test skills, and ability includes letter writing,
preparing of schedules and hand writing ect.
2. Intelligence will be measured though an examination
which consists of a question paper designed to test the
candidate’s rational and analytical skills and ability to
arrive at rational conclusion in association with non-
verbal clues.
3. General knowledge will also measured through an
examination which consists of a question paper designed
to test candidate’s knowledge about social and cultural
styles of Sri Lanka, locally and internationally important
current affairs and scientific and technical development.
4. Question paper on English language which expects a
level of knowledge equal to G.C.E. (OIL) Examination
will test candidates ability to understand a paragraph,
prepare a short letter and translate a simple Sinhala/
Tamil paragraph in to English.
The candidates who have obtained the highest marks will be
called for the interview in the descending order. The purpose of this
interview will be only to scrutinize the educational and other service
certificates. No marks will be given at this interview. Those
candidates whose certificates are proved to be genuine and who
have obtained the highest marks at the written examination will be
recruited to these posts.
Registrar General.
Registrar General Office,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
9
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME AFFAIRS
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of
Grade III of the Registrar Service
For official use only
Medium :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
(Sinhala - 2) (Tamil - 3) (English - 4)
01. (i) Last name Followed with initials :––––––––.
(in English Block Capitals)
(ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––.
(in English Block Capitals)
02. Full Address:
(i) Private (in English Block Capitals) :
(ii) Official (in English Block Capitals) :
Admission cards will be posted to these address.
(Officers who are in Public Service/Provincial Public Service
must write their official addresses. Any change in address
should be informed immediately.)
03. (i) Date of Birth:
Year : Month :    Date :
(ii) Age at 28.01.2010 :
Years:             Months:          Days:
(iii) The candidates other than the officers of the public
Service must attach a true copy of their birth certificate)
04. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 2
(write the relevant number in the cage)
05. Civil Status:
Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
(write the relevant number in the cage)
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Under which paragraph of the notice of examination do you
qualify to apply for the examination? 6: 1/6:2( delete words
inapplicable)
7.1 If under para 6:1;
Degree :––––––––. Year conferred :––––––––.
(a photocopy of the Degree certificate should be attached)
7.2 If under para 6:2;
i. Date of appointment to Public Management
Assistant’s Service(GCS) :––––––––.
ii. Present class and the date of appointment to that
class :––––––––.
08. Paste the cash receipt here firly :
09. Certificate of the candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief all the
information given in this form is true and I have affixed cash
receipt No. ............. dated ............................... in payment of
the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules
governing examinations and any decision that may be taken to
cancel my candidature Prior to or after the examination. if it is
found that I am ineligible according to the regulars of the
examination or do dismiss me from the post without
compensation if the inaccuracy detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Attesting Candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
ATTESTATION
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................  who
is an officer of my office / and  is personally known to me signed
before me on .............. 2010.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Attesting Officer.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
ATTESTATION
In case of Government servants, the signature can be attested by
the Head of Department or the relevant Staff Officer. In case of
external candidates signature can be attested by principal of an
approved school, a retired Principal of such school, Justice of the
Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-law, an officer of the
Public or Local Government Service drawing an annual consolidated
salary of Rs.230,060 or over, Notary Public, a Chief priest, a Priest
in charge of a religious institution.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... is employed in this
Department and that his/her work and conduct are satisfactory.
 He/
She fulfils the requirement stated in the relevant notification calling
for applications for this examination. No penalty whatsoever has
been imposed on him/her other than a warning. He/She can/cannot
be released from service, if selected and that the cash receipt of
payment of examination fee is affixed rare to.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Name and Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––.
01-165
B3 - B 080080

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
10
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2010
11
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month D ate of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2010
JANUARY 01.01.2010 Friday — 18.12.2009 Friday 12 noon
08.01.2010 Friday –– 24.12.2009 Thursday 12 noon
15.01.2010 Friday –– 01.01.2010 Friday 12 noon
22.01.2010 Friday –– 08.01.2010 Friday 12 noon
28.01.2010 Thursday –– 15.01.2010 Friday 12 noon
FEBRUARY 05.02.2010 Friday — 22.01.2010 Friday 12 noon
12.02.2010 Friday –– 28.01.2010 Thursday 12 noon
19.02.2010 Friday –– 05.02.2010 Friday 12 noon
26.02.2010 Friday –– 12.02.2010 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 05.03.2010 Friday — 19.02.2010 Friday 12 noon
12.03.2010 Friday –– 26.02.2010 Friday 12 noon
19.03.2010 Friday –– 05.03.2010 Friday 12 noon
26.03.2010 Friday –– 12.03.2010 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.