

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
ɼ  ලංකා  ȝජාතාǦƵක  සමාජවා Ǐ  ජනරජ ෙɏ  ගැසŸ  පƴ ය 
අƯ ɪෙශෂ   
අංක 2089/27 - 2018 සැȗතැȼබə මස 18 වැǧ අඟහɞවාදා  - 2018.09.18 
 
No. 2089/27 – TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER,  18,  2018 
EXTRAORDINARY 
Pilgrimages Ordinance 
 
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Home Affairs in terms of Section 2 of  Pilgrimages Ordinance. (Chap 175) 
. 
 
           WAJIRA   ABEWARDHANA, 
                                               Minister of Home Affairs.   
 
 
Ministry of Home Affairs, 
Independence Square, 
Colombo 07. 
20th August 2018 
 
 
Regulations 
 
 
 1. These regulations may be cited as the regulation of Hemmathagama Kapurekka Sirisamggodaya Purana 
Viharaya,  Mihindu Maha Perahera of Hemmathagama Grama Niladhari Division of the Mawanella Divisiona l 
Secretariat of Kegalla District. 
 
 2. In these regulations.  
  “Camp area” means the area described in the schedule. 
  “District Secretary/Government Agent” means the Government Agent of Kegalle administrative district and if 
also includes any officer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4. 
  “Medical Officer” means the Health Medical Officer in charge of the camp area. 
  “Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose. 
  “Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area. 
  “Public Health Inspector” means the Public Health Inspector in charge of the camp area. 
G 28553  - 12 (09/2018) 
 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART I : SECTION (I)  —  GENERAL 
 
 
Government Notifications 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකʣටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2018.09.18 
PART  I : Sec. (I)  – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2018 
 3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of the festival of Hemmathagama Kapurekka 
Sirisamggodaya Purana Viharaha. Mihinda Maha Perahera of Hemmathagama Grama Niladhari Division of the 
Mawanella Divisional Secretariat in the Administrative District of Kegalle. 
 
 4. The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any public officer in writ ing to 
exercise any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation. 
 
 5. (I) The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have  the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walking to or 
from within the camp area.  
  (II) No. Person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance wit h the 
instructions issued to such  police officer by the District Secretary/Government Agent for the exerc ise of 
powers vested in him under the Para  (1) of this regulation. 
  
 6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal tnto the camp area without the written permissi on of the 
District of the District Secretary/Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where 
carts are brought and cattle are driven to  a place  reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and c attle, under 
regulation 7. 
 
 7. (1) The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following  places 
inside the camp area 
 
  a. Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles . 
  b. Places for leaving carts and cattle  
  c. Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims 
  d. Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick 
  e. Places for  begging and solicitation for charity 
  f. Places for displaying certain items for sale 
  g. Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes 
  h. Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing 
  i. Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places prov iding 
 such facilities. 
  J. Places for other purposes the District Secretary/Government Agent may deem necessary. 
 
   i. If the District Secretary/Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any places is 
reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (1)  by him, action shall be taken to 
erecting a notice or name board stating the purpose for which the place is reserved. 
 
  (3) (I) In case of any places is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (I), that place sha ll strictly 
be used for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.  
 
 8. If the District Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine 
to any tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in te camp area or it is required to be closed  for prevention 
of diseases, the District Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power to do so. 
 
 9. (i) No one shall build any hut or temporary permanent construction or any other construction or make  a new 
addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp  area, 
reserved or provided for certain purpose under regulation7, except on a pemit issued by the District  Secretary/
Government Agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the conditions stipulated in such permit  
 
  i. If any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make  a new 
addition to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (1) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery of 
a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to order t o remove or 
demolish such hut or building construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may be,  
 
  ii. Where any person has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act in 
compliance with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or wher e a doubt 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකʣටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2018.09.18 
PART  I : Sec. (I)  – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.09.2018 
arises as to who is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the D istrict 
Secretary/Government Agent to case action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, const ruction 
or a new addition made to the existing building or construction as the case may be, it is also lawfu l for the 
District Secretary/Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to any land or premises together w ith 
labourers, equipment. 
 
 10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for 
the use of pilgrims. 
 
 11. No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp area. 
 
 12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container  supplied by 
the District Secretary/Government Agent for this purpose. 
 
 13. District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the distribution of cooked m eals and 
beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area. 
 
  i.  No one shall disobay any lawful order to be carried out by Police Officer or a Public Health Ins pector in 
accordance with instructions given by District Secretary/Government Agent in the exercise of powers delegated 
to him under Para (I) of this regulation. 
 
 14. (1) Where any food or drink displayed or placed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the 
camp area is found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the District Secretary/Gover nment 
Agent or the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not 
suitable for human consumption. 
 
  (2) No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable  for human 
consumption under Para (1) of this regulation. 
 
  (3)  It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribu tion and 
destroy any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (1) of the regulation. 
 
 15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dans al in any 
place in the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless thay are 
maintained on a license issued by the District Secretary/Government Agent  and in accordance with co nditions 
stipulated there in Every License shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of the Medical Of ficer or 
any Officer authorized by such Medical Officer. 
 
 16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal and all furniture  and 
equipment in such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition. 
 
 17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale or distribution in the camp area shal l be kept in 
show case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical Office r or the 
Public Health Inspector. 
 
 18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leaving of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall 
be left at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the contain er placed as 
provided in regulation 19, However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any place 
within the camp area or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case  of bakery, 
sweet stall, place where sweets are made or eating house or ‘Dansal’ the license holder of such plac e shall be 
deemed to have violated provisions in this regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holder 
proves that all necessary precautions have been taken and action has been taken with proper care to prevent the 
commission of such offence. 
 
 19. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or con structions 
used for commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage  c ontainer 

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A I ෙකʣටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2018.09.18 
PART  I : Sec. (I)  – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2018 
with a capacity of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden , metal or 
plastic  lid  unless it is used to dump or remove garbage. 
 
 20. (1) if the District Secretary/Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet  stall, place w here sweets 
are made, eating house, Danasal place has been established or maintained in violation or regulations  16, 17, 18 
or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery, sweet stall, place whe re sweets are 
made eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the camp area or cancel any license with immediate 
effect if any license has been issued for such place. 
 
  (2) Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made or eating ho use or 
Dansal or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the District Secr etary/
Government Agent under chapter (1) of this section. 
 
 21. No person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall  enter the camp area. 
 
 22. (1) It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to order the pilgrims to leave th e camp area 
and for the District Secretary/Government Agent  to determine the route of leaving and mode of trans port to be 
used for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area. 
 
  (2) No person shall act against any legal order given by the District Secretary/Government Agent  under Para 
(1) of this section. 
 
 23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and w hen a 
person is knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagiou s disease, 
every such person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Polic e Officer 
immediately. 
 
 24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant  or Dansal within the camp 
area shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from infectious diseases or contagious di sease to 
enter such bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale or 
manufacture of any material or food or drink. 
 
 25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal o r an owner 
or chief occupant of any lodge or pilgrims’ rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectious disease 
or contagious disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made , eating 
house, Dansel lodge or pilgrims’ rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person sufferin g from any 
infectious disease or contagious disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chi ef occupant 
shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Officer or any Police Officer immediately. 
 
 26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means withi n the camp 
area except in a place reserved or provided for begging  and solicitation for charity under regulation 7. 
 
 27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within the camp area without a written permission from the 
District Secretary/Government Agent. 
 
 28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under Regulat ion 7 or 
10. 
 
 29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or any 
Police Officer to,  
  (a)  Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from amo ng 
these regulations and, 
  (b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying  a notice 
or a name board under Regulation 7. 
 
 30. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent  to cancel the following  at any time  if he 
considers that the   cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest. 

<!-- page 5 -->

5A I ෙකʣටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2018.09.18 
PART  I : Sec. (I)  – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.09.2018 
   (a)  Any permission given under Regulation 6 or Regulation 27. 
   (b)  Permit issued under Regulation 9. 
   (c)   Any license issued under Regulation 15. 
 
 
  
Schedule 
 
The margins of the  land which belongs to Hemmathagama Kapurekka Sirisamggodaya Purana Viharaya whic h is 
situated in Hemmathagama Grama Niladhari Division in Mawanella Divisional Secretariat of Kegalle Dis trict in 
Sabaragamuwa Province are indicated as follows: 
 
 
 
 North: The land called Kuruminithenna Watta claimed by Mr. Tissa Adhikaram and Mr Gamini Adhikaram; 
 South: Baddayalage Watta claimed by Mr. Upul Adhikaram; 
 East: The land claimed by Mr. E. V. Jayalath; 
 West: Manannage Watta also known as Preshan Garden and the land claimed by Mrs. Manel Adhikari. 
 
10 - 77 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 