

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1115
1115
wxl 1"613 - 2009 cQ,s 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'07'31
No. 1,613 – FRIDAY , JULY 31, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1118
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1121
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th August, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th July,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.– The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in April-June, 2006 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1116
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1117
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1118
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Land  Commissioner  General  Department
RECRUITMENT  OF  THE  POST  OF  DATA  ENTRY
OPERATER
APPLICATIONS are called for the recruitment to the Post of Data
Entry Operater. Date of closing application is 14th of August,
2009.
02. Eligibility : Every Applicant :
2.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Should be of a good character and in sound health ;
2.3 Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years on the date of closing applications. (This upper
age limit does not apply for those who are already in the
Government Service/Provincial GOvernment Service.).
03. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed 06 subjects with 05 credit passes
including one subject among the subjects such as Sinhala/
Tamil Language or literature, Mathematics, English
Language and Chemistry/Biology/Physics in not more
than two sittings at the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination (Should have passed 05
subjects at once) ; or
(b) Should have passed 06 subjects with 05 credit passes
including the subjects such as Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil
Language and English Language in not more than two
sittings at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary
Level) Examination (Should have passed 05 subjects at
once) ; or
(c) Should have passed 06 subjects with 05A or B passes
including the subjects such as First Language,
Mathematics, Science and English Language in not more
than two sittings at the National Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination (Should have passed 05
subjects at once).
04. Professional and other Qualifications  :
(a) Should have completed a Diploma Course on Computer
in a recognized institute for a period not less than 06
months. This course should comprise currently used
Word Processing, Spread Sheets, Data Base and
Operating System with ;
(b) A period of 06 months as a Data Entry operator in a
recognized institute.
05. Salary Scale.– Rs. 13,120 - 10 x 145 – 11 x 170 - 10 x 240 -
10 x 320 - Rs. 22,040. Before get the fourth and seventh steps the
first and second Efficiency Bar Examinations should be respectively
passed after being appointed to this post.
First Efficiency Bar.– Should have passed an examination, based
on the establishment Code and Financial Regulations. The
relevant syllabus and examination procedure will be shown
in the Annexure I.
Second Efficiency Bar.– Should have followed a Diploma course
on Computer Science for a minimum period not less than 06
months. Even a part time course will be enough. Should have
informed the Name of the Institute, intended to follow the
Diploma Course, to the Head of the Department and obtained
his approval for following the Diploma course in the said
institute.
06. Method of Recruitment.– Selections will be made by calling
applications through the Government Gazette  and subject to a
Professional Test and structural interview as per Public
Administration Circular No. 15/90. Only Twenty five candidates,
who will score higher marks on a marking scheme, will be summoned
for the Professional Test. Those who will obtain minimum 50 marks
at the Professional Test, will be call for the interview. And those
who will obtain the highest marks out of the Professional Test and
Structural Interview will be selected. If the relevant department is
not capable of holding such Professional Test, the assistance for
that purpose, will be sought from the National Management Institute
or Computer Technology Board. The theoretical and practical
knowledge about the facts, mentioned in the paragraph 4, will be
evaluated at the Professional Test.
The Structural Interview panel should consist of minimum 03
staff officers. The manner of giving marks at the Structural Interview
is mentioned below :
If a course, for a period more than 06 months has been
completed, the maximum 15
marks or 06 months by 02 marks
Having experienced for a period more than 06 months as
a Data Entry Operator in a recognized Institute,
the maximum marks for 06 months by 02 marks 20
The Interview
15
50
07. Term of Engagement .– The post is permanent and
pensionable. Further, you shall contribute to the Widows' and
Orphans' Pension Fund/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Fund.
You shall pay contributions to this fund as declared by the
government from time to time.
08. Condition of Service.– Provisions of section from 10 to 12 in
the Chapter II of the Establishment Code will apply to this
appointment as the case may be.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1119
09. Method of Application .– Applications, prepared on both
sides of paper, sized 8 1/2 x 13 1/2 as per specimen appearing at the
end of this notification, should be sent by registered post so as to
reach the land Commissioner General, Land Commissioner General
Department, No. 07, Hector Kobbekaduwa Avenue, Colombo 07
on or before 21st of August, 2009. Applications of those who are
already the government service/Provincial government service,
should be sent through the respective heads of the department. The
top left hand corner of the envelope, enclosing the application
should be marked as Post of Data Entry Operator.
This signature should be attested by placing signature and official
frank of a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for oaths, Lawyer, Notary
Public, Principal of  a government school, officer holding government
post, incumbent There of Buddhist temple, leader of the other
religion or any other person holding a responsible post.
Receipt of application will not be acknowledged. Applications,
received after the closing date, those not confirmed to the
requirements and those not duly perfected will be rejected.
Complaints to the effects that application has been lost in post will
not be entertained and the applicants are requested to post their
applications well in time to avoid delay in post.
Note.– The vacancies exist in the Head Office of the Land
Commissioner General Department, situated at Colombo. No
travelling expenses or other expenses will be paid to the candidates
who are summons for the examinations and the interviews. As per
instruction of Public Service Commission, the Land Commissioner
General reserved the authority of taking decision of any matter, not
covered by this notification.
S. D. A. B. B
ORALASSE,
Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General Department,
No. 07, Hector Kobbekaduwa Avenue,
Colombo 07.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF DATA ENTRY OPERATOR OF THE LAND
COMMISSIONER GENERAL DEPARTMENT (01 POST)
(For official use only)
01. 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––.
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
(ii) English (in Block Letters) :––––––––––.
1.2 Full name with names denoted by the initials (in legible
hand writing) :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
(ii) English :––––––––––.
02. Private Address :––––––––––.
Division Secretary's Division :––––––––––.
District :––––––––––.
03. Official Address (if any post is held) :––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Age as on 14th of August :––––––––––.
Years :–––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
06. Gender (Put x in the relevant box) :
Female Male
07. Civil Status :––––––––––.
08. Ethnicity :––––––––––.
09. Citizenship :
By descent :––––––––––.
By registration :––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
(i) General Certification of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination/National Certificate of Education (Ordinary
Level) Examination :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
(ii) General Certification of Education (Advance Level)
Examination :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
11. Details of the Professional and other Qualifications :
Course Institution Subject Result of the
followed Final Examination
12. Details of the Experience :––––––––––.
13. If employed, details of the present post :––––––––––.
(i) Designation and Grade/Class :––––––––––.
(ii) Date of Appointment :––––––––––.
(iii) Institute :––––––––––.
(iv) Whether pensionable :––––––––––.
(v) Present annual consolidated salary scale and present pay
particulars :––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1120
14. Have you been convicted of any criminal offence in the court of
law ? If so, give details :––––––––––.
I declare that the particulars furnished in this application are
true and correct to the beat of my knowledge. I further declare
that I have not been dismissed from the Government service or
deemed to have vacated post. I do agree to bear up the loss to
be caused by leaving some parts herein incomplete or falsely
completing. I declare that every part here in is duly perfected.
I am aware that if any particular, furnished by me, are found to
be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification before selection
and to dismissal without any compensation if this inaccuracy
is defected after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Plase of offiical frank)
IN THE CASE OF GOVERNMENT SURVANT/PROVINCIAL
GOVERNMENT SERVANT CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF
THE DEP ARTMENT
I am forwarding the application of Mr./Mrs. ................. He/She
is Permanently/Temporarily/Casually employed in this Ministry/
Department and in the event of his/her selection for appointment
to this post he/she can/cannot be released from the service.
–––––––––––––,
Head of Department or
officer authorized to sing for him.
Date :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––.
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE
POST OF DATA ENTRY OPERATOR SYLLABUS
01. This examination will be conducted by the Land Commissioner
General depending on the requirement of the Department, the
time to held the examination will be decided.
02. The Question paper is 1 hour paper which contains 50 Multiple
choice questions :
1. Establishment code
(Establishment code - 1985) (30 questions)
2. Financial regulations (20 questions)
02 marks will be given to each correct and pass mark is 40
marks.
Syllabus :
(1) Establishment code (Establishment code – 1985)
1. Recruitment procedure and appointments (Chapter II)
2. Grant of monthly pay, temporary status, permanent
status and pension ability (Chapter IV)
3. Release (Chapter V)
4. Salaries (Chapter VII)
5. Overtime pay, etc., (Chapter VIII)
6. Leave (Chapter XII)
7. Salary loans and advances (Chapter XXIV)
8. General conduct and discipline (Chapter XLVII in the
V olume II).
(2) Financial Regulations :
1. Accounting officers (Chapter III).
2. Receipt of Public Money (Chapter XI).
3. Security of Public Money (Chapter VII).
4. Principle books and documents of the Government
Department (Part II of the Chapter VII).
5. Procurement procedure and Principles.
07–920
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be  permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired  sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1121
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 01st September, 20 09.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
30th June, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division applications were called applications should be sent
01 Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/ Additional
Deaths in Aluthkade Division Registrar General District
Secretariat Colombo 12.
02. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in New Basar Division Registrar General District
Secretariat Colombo 12.
03. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in Maradana Division Registrar General District
Secretariat Colombo 12.
04. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in Modara Division Registrar General District
Secretariat Colombo 12.
05. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/ Additional
Deaths in Kotahena Division Registrar General District
Secretariat Colombo 12.
07-755
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 2 Grade II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educator's Service - 2009
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 2-II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service will be held in Colombo in November
2009.
The syllabus of this examination and other provisions have been published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1070/13-1999 dated 11th March, 1999. This syllabus and other provisions are indicated below
for the convenience of the applicants.
An officer may appear for this  Efficiency Bar examination for the prescribed subjects in one instance or in different instances.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1122
Syllabus :—
 Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
(01) General Management and Establishment Work Regulation in the Establishment 100 1 1/2  hours
Code with special reference for Chapters  i, ii, iii, iv, v, vii, viii, ix, xii, xiii, xiv,
xxiv, xxviii, xxx and xxxi
(02) Financial Regulations With special reference for 100 1 1/2  hours
Chapters  i, ii, v, viii, xii and xiv in Part I  of the Government Financial
Regulations
(03) Education Law Candidates’ knowledge expected relating 100 2 hours
to the following Ordinances and Acts of Parliament
(i) Education Act, No. 31 of 1939 and regulations imposed thereunder
(ii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special Provisions) Act No. 5 of 1960
(iii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 8 of 1961
(iv) Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 amended by Public Examinations (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1976
(v) Assisted Schools (Special Provisions) Act ,No. 65 of 1981
(vi) National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985
(vii) Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986
(viii) National Education Commission Act No. 19 of 1991
(ix) National Authority on Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of 1997
(x) Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference for the 13th Amendment and Chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights.
(xi) Enactments made by Provincial Councils relating to Education.
P .S.- Applicants should obtain at least 40% marks for each subject for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
03. Language medium of the examination:—
(i) Applicants may answer the papers in Official Language or in the National Language.
(ii) Applicants may answer the papers in the language medium of the competitive examination they appeared for joining the
Public Service. Regarding those who joined Public Service without appearing for a Competitive Examination they may
answer the papers in the language medium of the examination they were qualified to join the Public Service.
04. If it is revealed that any candidate had appeared for the examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to answer his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
05. Application should be prepared in conformity to the following specimen form. Applications should be prepared by
including all items in the first page and the relevant information should be filled in applicant's own handwriting. Application s which do
not conform with the Specimen Application and those with incomplete information will be rejected without any intimation. If wil l be
useful to keep a photocopy of the application with the applicant and the applicant should verify whether the completed applicat ion is
in conformity with the specimen form given in the examination notification as otherwise the application is liable to be rejecte d. In
preparing the application the name of the examination mentioned at the top of the application should be indicated in English in  addition
to Sinhala in the Sinhala applications and in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil applications.
06. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and Applicants are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations imposed by him for conducting this examination.
07. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of  Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be reached on or before 28.08.2009. Any
applications received after this date will be rejected. The words "Efficiency Bar Examination - Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service 2-II"
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1123
08. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the applicants the Commissioner General of Examinations will public a
news paper notice to that effect. In the event of any applicant not receiving his admission card even after 2 or 3 days of the publication
of the above notice he should promptly notify to that effect to the Department of Examinations as indicated in the notification . It will be
more useful if you may forward your request to the Department of Examinations along with a certified copy of the application an d the
receipt for payment of fees kept with you and a fax number to send the admission cards when it is outside Colombo.
09. Complaints made later by applicants who fail to fulfill the requirements indicated at para. 8 above will not be considered.
10. Applicants should submit their admission card with the signature attested to the Supervisor of the  Examination hall on the
date of the examination;
11. It is responsibility of the applicants to submit evidence to prove their identity at the Examination hall and for this purp ose
any one of the following documents will be valid.
I. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons,
II. A valid Passport.
12. The issue of an admission card to an applicant should not be treated as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the
qualification to appear for the examination.
13. It has been decided to charge examination charges from the applicants who appear for this examination on the following
basis.
(a) No fees will be charged from Applicants appearing for the first time for the whole examination or for part of the
examination.
(b) Fee for the whole examination Rs. 150.00
Fee for one subject Rs. 50.00
Applicants should pay the examination fee by revenue stamps by duly canceling them after placing their signature on stamps.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
09th July, 2009.
APPLICATION
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION IN CLASS 2 GRADE II OF SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCA TORS’ SERVICE - 2009
Applications should be sent under registered post addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla through the Head of the Institute.
(Name of the examination should be indicated on the top left hand corner of envelope)
Language medium appearing  for  the examination Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant Number to be written in the cage)
01. ( a) Name with initials at end :——————,
(In English capital letters) Ex. :- Mr./Mrs./Miss.
SILV A, A. B.
(b) Names denoted by initials : ——————,
(In English capital letters)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1124
02. Date of birth :––––––––––.
Year                       Month                   Date
03. (i) Designation : ————————,
(ii) Name and address of NCOE/TC serving (Admission  Card will be sent to this address) :————————,
04. Private address (In English capital letters) : ——————,
05. Please indicate clearly the subject number and subjects appearing as indicated under -
(a) in Para 3 of the Notice :
Subject No. Subject
06. Whether you have appeared for this examination earlier completely or partly and if so indicate the subjects, year appeared a nd the
medium :
Subject Year Medium Index No.
07. Examination fees paid :
Stamps to be affixed here
(Prescribed stamps to be affixed and cancelled by placing applicant’s signature)
08. I hereby declare that the above details are true and correct and that I am entitled to sit for this examination in the langu age medium
indicated in Para. 03 of the Gazette Notification. I will abide by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General
Examinations relating to conducting this examination.
—————,
Signature of applicant.
Date: —————
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS
Forwarded,
I certify that this applicant is eligible to sit  this examination and he/she is qualified to appear in the language medium indicated
under Para. 03 of Gazette Notification 02. I also certify that the applicant has duly cancelled the stamp/stamps.
———————,
Signature of President NCOE/
Manager T.C./Designation.
Date :—————
07-802

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1125
SPECIAL  OPEN/LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  RECRUITMENT  OF
TAMIL  MEDIUM  LABOUR  OFFICERS  TO  THE  LABOUR  DEPARTMENT – 2008
A competitive examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on November, 2009, at Colombo only in Tamil
Medium, in order to recruit Tamil Medium Labour Officers to the Department of Labour.
2. Salary Scale.– The salary segment of the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(IV) entitled to the class I and class II of
the Labour officer service. MN 05-2006-A Rs. 16,720 - 10 x 320 - 11 x 365- 15 x 450- Rs. 30,685 (monthly).
(In accordance with the pubilc administration Circular No. 20/2001 First Efficiency bar examination should be pass within 3 years
from the appointment date or before the 4th salary step and Second Efficiency bar within 6 years from the appointment date or before the
7th salary step.)
Note.– Applicants are recruited to the class II, Officers who have passed the 1st and 2nd Efficiency bar Examinations, completed
the Language Proficiency (Sinhala) Oral Test and confirmed in the service and have 10 years satisfactory service, earned 5 subs equent
increments as at the date of promotion and no penalty imposed against him are promoted to the class I.
3. Educational and Other qualifications.– The applicants :
(i) Should be physically sound and of good moral character ;
(ii) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) The examination will be conducted in Tamil medium only. Nationality or race of the applicant will not be considered ;
(iv) Eligibilities for Open Examination.
The applicants should satisfy the following qualification as at the closing date.
(a) Degree of a recognized university ; or
(b) Professional qualifications which authorize him to practice as an attorney at law.
(v) Eligibilities for Limited Examination :
(a) An officer who has 10 year permanent and pensionable service in Management Assistant Service or Clerical and parallel
services in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service and confirmed in the service on or before the closing date of this
notice ; or
(b) An officer who has obtained a degree from a recognized university and 5 year permanent and pensionable service in
Management Assistant Service or Clerical and parallel services in the Public Service or provincial public service and
confirmed in the service on or before the closing date of this notice.
Note : (i) If the applicant has not gained satisfactory service report within the succeeding 5 years up to 31.08.2009 is not be
considered for the appointment although he has appeared for the examination. An applicant is considered as he has
a satisfactory service.
(a) If he has earned all the salary increments during the 5 years preceding the closing date for accomplishing qualifications ;
and
(b) If he has not punished for any offence caused by him during this period (except advices).
(ii) Services and classes which satisfy the eligibilities in above (V) (a) (b) and qualified for the Limited examination are
included in the Schedule 1.
(vi) Not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of receiving application. (This age limit will
not be applicable to the persons already in Public or Provincial public service.)
(vii) In case, any applicant who is qualified to appear for limited examination is acquired qualifications required to appear for
open examination too, he/she can apply for the examination through one application including the accurate information.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1126
4. Method of recruitment :
(a) Each 10 of the 20 approved posts will be filled from the applicants who satisfy the qualifications in subsection IV and V
of the Section 3 above, in pursue of the results of a written examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
examination and an Interview conducted by the Commissioner General of Labour to scrutinize the qualifications and
certificates.
(b) Priority list will be prepared considering the applicants who take 40 or more marks for the respective question paper of
the competitive examination.
5. Conditions of Service :
(A) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions will be made to the widows and Orphans Fund. The appointment
will be given on three years probation period. In the event, any person, who has been already holding a permanent and
pensionable post in state service is selected, he/she will be appointed subjecting to one year acting period.
(B) The selected applicants are bound to work in the Labour Offices in North and East provinces and Labour Offices
indicated below, at least 10 years from the appointment date. Transfers will not be granted to the exclusive offices.
Nuwara Eliya, Hatton, Badulla, Haputhale, Gampola, Nawalapitiya, Kandy North, Kandy South, Mathugama, Mathale,
Kegalle, Avissawella, Rathnapura, Pelmadulla.
(C) The officers should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination, below mentioned, during the probation period :
(i) Test in Labour laws I and II ;
(ii) Test in Establishment code (Part I and II), Financial Regulations, Office System ;
(iii) Sinhala Oral Test - (this examination is conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination).
(D) In accordance with the public administration Circular No. 07/2007 and 07/2007(I), selected applicants should be skilled
in Sinhala Language within 5 year from their recruitment. If failed to acquire this language proficiency during the
succeeding 5 years from the appointment date salary increments will be deferred until he/she qualified.
(E) To see the other conditions of service, please see the General conditions applicable for the posts in public service,
published in the beginning of the Para. II(a) of the Part I of this Gazette.
06. Examination procedure.– Competitive examination for both open/limited candidates :
Aptitude Test (1 Hour - 100 Marks)
A paper prepared to test the linguistic and numeric ability, logical strength and decision making of the applicant, (50 objective type
questions included.)
07. Submitting Applications :
(i) While preparing the application, caption 01 to 04 should be indicated in the first page. 05 to 10 should be indicated in 2nd
page and the rest should be included to 3/4 pages. Then the relevant information should be inserted in own hand writing.
Applications which are compatible with the specimen application and the applications which indicate imperfect information
will be rejected with no acknowledgement. It is useful if the applicant could keep a photocopy of the application with him/
her. Further he/she should ascertain the application's compatibility with the specimen application. Otherwise the application
is rejected. While preparing the applications in Tamil medium name of the Examination mentioned in the Heading should be
indicated in English Language in addition to the Tamil Language.
(ii) The applications should be sent under registered cover to reach "Commissioner General of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla, on or before 12.00 p. m. 31.08.2009. Applications received after due date will not be entertained. The
department will not take the responsibility of the applications delayed or lost in the post. Requests to sit for this
examination in any other language except Tamil language will not be considered.
(iii) The words "Competitive examination for recruitment of Tamil medium labour officers - 2008" should be clearly mentioned
on the top left corner of the envelope containing the application.
(iv) The fees for examination is Rs. 300. This fee should be paid at any District secretariat or Divisional Secretariat before the
closing date for applications with the instruction that is should be credited to revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13 of

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1127
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained from the D istrict Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat should
be affixed at the respective place of the application. It is useful if you could keep a photocopy of the receipt of payment
and the application for subsequent inquiries.
(v) Fees paid for this examination will not be refunded for any reason whatsoever apart from the cancellation of the examination.
Further this fee cannot be transferable for any other examination.
(vi) Applicants who are already in Public Service should forward their applications through their Heads of the Department. The
attestation of the Head of the Department indicated at the end of the application should be accomplished compulsorily.
(vii) The candidates should refer this Gazette notification carefully before they complete their applications. Any application
which is not completed in every respect is liable to be rejected.
(viii) Applications should not be delivered to any personal address. The Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will publish
a News paper notice immediately after issuing the admission forms to the applicants. If the admission cards are not received
even after 02 or 03 days of publishing this Notice, you should inform the Department of Examination as instructed by the
same. It would be effective if you could provide certified copies of the application and the receipt of payments, the receipt
of registration and a letter which indicates a Fax Number in order to send the admission card in case you have dispatched
your application form an outer area from Colombo keeping a copy with you when notifying the Department of Examinations.
(ix) The signature of the application should be attested by any of the authorized officer mentioned below. A Justice of peace,
a commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-Law, Notary public, a principal of a Government school or Director managed
school, an officer holding Gazette post in police service, a Staff grade Officer, a High Priest of a Buddhist Temple, a chief
incumbent, a member of the Clergy of any other Religion holding a respectable post.
(x) The candidates will not be refunded travelling or any other expenses, which they spend for sitting this examination.
08. Admission to the examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examination will issue an admission card to all the candidates whose application has been
received by him. A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his admission card in which his/her
signature attested therein to the supervisor of the examination centre on the date of examination. A candidate, who fails to
produce his admission card, will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
(ii) A candidate must sit for the examination at the examination hall assigned to him and will not be allowed to sit for this
examination at any other examination center.
(iii) Entry for this examination is not considered as an acceptation of his/her qualifications. A set of rules to be followed by all
candidates is published in this Gazette. All the candidates are bound to follow these rules. Candidates are abided by the
conditions pertaining to the examination established by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Any applicant who
contravene these conditions he/she will be subjected to any punishment imposed by Commissioner General of Examination.
09. Identification of the Candidate. – A candidate should prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor on the day of examination. For this purpose one of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity card issued by the Department of registration of persons ;
(b) A passport valid as at the date of examination.
Note.– any candidate who fails to produce any of the above documents will not be allowed to sit for the examination. Therefore the
candidates are instructed hereby to get prepare the necessary documents early.
10. Documents of Eligibility :
(i) The candidate should complete all the required information in the application. Any application, which does not meet with
the requirements in this notification, will be rejected.
(ii) The applicants who are called for the final interview should prove their qualifications through documents. Otherwise these
documents should be posted to me under registered cover, immediately on my request.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1128
(iii) Following documents are required :
(a) Two character certificates issued by two responsible persons. (Not applicable for the persons who are already attached
to the Government Service).
(b) Certified copy of the certificate of the registration of birth of the candidate :
(i) Special Birth Certificate issued for using in schools or educational purposes or certified extracts of the birth
certificate will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits and Certificates of Baptism will not be accepted in lieu of Birth certificate.
(c) A certificate which proves that the applicant is a citizen in Sri Lanka by registration or by descent.
(d) Original certificates of education.
(e) A certificate with regards to the period of service should be produced by the candidates who are already in the
Government Service (in addition to the certification in the application).
(f) Identity card.
(iv) None of the above certificates should be attached to the application and should be produced at the interview.
(v) All the candidates are instructed to get prepare all the necessary documents when they apply for the examination.
Candidature of any candidate who fails or delays to submit these documents at the interview or on my request will be
cancelled.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this examination,
his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage of prior to, during or after the examination.
If any of the particulars furnished by the candidate is found to be false within his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed a
meaterial fact, he will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
Note.– Please be informed that if there is any discrepancy found between this Gazette notification published in Sinhala, English and
Tamil languages, the notification published in Sinhala Language will be considered as correct.
M
AHINDA M ADIHAHEWA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Labour Relations and Manpower.
Specimen Application
SPECIAL OPEN/LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF
TAMIL MEDIUM LABOUR OFFICERS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR – 2009
For office use only
Please mention whether you appear for the limited examination/Open
examination in accordance with the Gazette Notification.
Limited examination - 1
Open examination - 2
Both Limited and open examination - 3 (insert relevant number in the cage)
(If qualified) (Not allowed to alternate later)
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials at end :–––––––––––.
(In block english letters) Ex : SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in Full :–––––––––––.
(In block English letters)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Tamil)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1129
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)  (Admission Card is posted to this address)
2.2 Applicable District :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.3 Official Address (If relevant) :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
03. 3.1 National Identity Card No. :
04. 4.1 Sex : Male – 0
Female – 1 (insert relevant number in the cage)
4.2 Race : Sinhalese – 1
Sri Lankan Tamil – 2
Indian Tamil – 3
Muslim – 4
Male – 5
Other – 6 (insert relevant number in the cage)
05. 5.1 Date of Birth : Y ear Month Date
5.2 Age as at 31.08.2009 : Y ears Months Days
5.3 Total period of service as at 31.08.2009, which qualifies you to apply for the examination (Applied to the candidates of Limited
examination only) :
Years Months Days
5.4 You have become a Sri Lankan citizen :
By descent – 1
By registration – 2 (insert relevant number in the cage)
06. If you are an employee in Public Service, Present Designation :–––––––––––.
07. Please state that you apply for this examination under which Section/Sections of the Gazette notification (whether under the Section
(iv) or (v) of the para (3)) :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications (Please mention if it is applicable to you) :
1. The Degree you are holding :–––––––––––.
2. Year and the University :–––––––––––.
3. Year that you qualified to practice as an Attorney-at-Law ? :–––––––––––.
09. Service Description (for the applicable candidates) :
Establishment Designation Period
from                                   to
10. If you are an employee in Public Service and subjected to penalty excluding warnings, provide details :–––––––––––.
11. ( a) The District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat where the examination fees was paid ? :–––––––––––.
(b) Date and Number of the cash receipt :–––––––––––.
(Please affix the Edge of the cash receipt firmly in the cage below) :
(to affix the cash receipt)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1130
12. Declaration by candidate :
(a) I declare that the information given in this form is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if the statement made by me herein is found to he false, I am liable to disqualification if detected befo re
selection and to dismissal form service, if detected after appointment.
(c) Further I agree to abide by all the conditions pertaining to the examination established by the Commissioner General of Examination.
(d) I am qualified to sit for the Limited/Open examination in accordance with the Section 3 of the gazette notification. (Cross the word
not relevant to you/if you are qualified for both examinations do not).
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
13. ( a) Attestation of the signature of the applicant,
I certify that the applicant ........................... is known to me and he/she placed his/he signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and Frank of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(b) Certificate of the Head of the Department :
My No. :
I certify that ................................ the applicant who forwards this application is serving in this office as a .... .............. since
................ and all the particulars furnished by him/her self above are accurate.
Further I inform that I can/cannot release this officer from his service if he/she elected to the above post.
–––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
S
CHEDULE - 01
OFFICERS IN FOLLOWING SERVICES/GRADES CAN APPLY FOR THIS EXAMINATION AS LIMITED CANDIDATES
(a) An officer in any of the following Combined Services under the control of the Director General of Combined Services :
Officers in Public Management Assistant Service, Translators : Librarian.
(b) An officer in any of the following clerical Services :
Postal, Railway, Parliamentary, Schools, Government Press, Former P. W. D., Health, Justice, Employees Provident Fund Clerk.
(c) An officer in any of the following Departmental Grades or who had been in such a grade and subsquently absorbed to a Similar
Grade in the Provincial Public Service.
Department/Ministry Grade
All Ministries Public Relations Officer
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports District Sports Officer, Sports Officer
Ministry of Finance and Planning Statistical Survey Officer, Statistical Assistant, Project Officer, Budget
Assistant, Statistical Measuring Officer
Ministry of Policy, Planning and Implementation Statistical Survey Officer, Statistical Assistant, Divisional Development
Officer, Plan Implementation Officer, Statistical Assistant

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1131
Education Hostel Superintendent, Planning/Financial Assistant
Educational Publications Proof Reader
Immigration and Emigration Senior Authorized Officer, Authorized Officer
Ayurvedic Hospital Secretary, Co-ordinating Officer
Food Food Control Inspector (Former Food and Price Control Inspector),
Preventive Officer (Charmers' Granaries), Grain Surveyor, Wharf Field
Officer, Wharf Clerk, Graduate Assistant (Female)
Land Commissioner's Field Instructor (Former Land Development Overseas), Kachcheri Surveyor,
Colonisation Officer, Block Administrat or, Assistant Land utilize
planning Officer
Marketing Development Marketing Officer, Manager, Investigation Officer, Divisional Marketing
Officer
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs Grama Niladari, Development Co-ordinators, Co-ordinating Assistant,
Development Officer, Research Assistant, Translator
Labour Human Resources Development Officer, Field Officer, Human Resource
Development Assistant, Financial Assistant
Small and Rural Industries Industrial Assistant, Management Assistant, General Manager, Economic
Assistant, Technical Assistant
Police Police Constable
Archeology Archeological Research Officer
Import and Export Budget Assistant
Building Progress Assistant
Agrarian Service Divisional Officer
Agricultural Research and production Assistant
Rural Development Rural Development Officer, Senior Supervisor, Rural Development, Senior
Rural Development Assistant, Rural Development Assistant
President Secretariat Statistical Investigator
Water supply and Drainage Progress Assistant
National Museum Curator
National Housing Graduate Assistant
Railway Time keeping clerk, Recovery and Reconciliation Assistant
Inland Revenue Librarian
Fisheries Fisheries Assistant, Fisherie s Resource Management Assistant
Legal Draftsman Translato r, Publication Assistant Children and
Child Care Services Head Master, Head Mistress, Probation Officer, Warden, House Master,
House Mistress
Local Government Superintendent of Village works (Technical officer IIA) Investigation Officer,
Community Development Officer, Local Government Clerk, Shroff,
Translator, Stenographer, Typist, Storekeeper
Postal Postal Officers who are in Combined Postal Services of Class A Grade III,
Class B Grade I and II
Media and Information Information Officer, Press Officer, Statistical and Research Officer, Proof
Reader
General Treasury Investigation Officer
Highways Progress Assistant
Commerce and Customer Affairs Inspector of Weights and Measures,
Price Controller Price Control Inspector (former food and price control inspector)
Motor Traffic Examiner of Motor V ehicles
Central Province Development Development Officer, Senior Supervisor Rural Development, Senior Rural
Development Assistant, Rural Development Assistant, Rural
Development Officer,
Rubber Control Inspector
Official Languages Resarch Assistant, Translator
Government Press Proof Reader, Government Press Clerical Service
Government Supplies Wharf Clerk
Irrigation Personal Officer (Labour), Planning Assistant
Sri Lanka Air Force Superintendent Civilian Establishment
Department/Ministry Grade

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.07.2009
1132
Supreme Court Stenographer
Justice Judicial Reforms program Assistant, Stenographer, Translator, Publication Assistant
Social Services Superintendent of State Home for the Aged and Informed, Social Services
Officer, Superintendent of Welfare and Social Welfare, Superintendent
of Home for the Aged and Disabled
Co-operative Development Lecturer, School of Co-operatives, Polgolla and Inspector of Co-operative
Societies, Co-operative Development Officer, District Officer
Ministry of Health and Hospitals Health Secretary, Colombo Group of Hospitals, Hospital Secretary, Budget
Assistant, Public Health Inspector, Planning and Programming Officer,
Hospital Diet Stewardess, Hospital Ward Clerk, Planning and
Programming Assistant, Statistical Investigators, Labour Relations
Officer, Store Keepr
Census and Statistics Statistical Investigator, Statistical Officer
Ministry of Cultural Affairs Cultural Officers, Assistant Archivist, Assistant Archival Officer, Record
Investigation Officer, Archival Research Assistant, Record Indexing
Officer, Archival Officer (Indexing)
Textile Industry Management Assistant
Agriculture Department Economic Assistant, Statistical Assistant, Graduate Assistant, Agriculture
Instructor
Export Agriculture Department Development Assistant
(Former Minor Export Corps)
Ministry of Industrial Development Industrial Inspector
Department of Internal Trade Assistant Commissioner Internal Trade and Inspector Internal Trade
Grade I
Ministry of Housing Construction and Public Utility Authorized Officer Implementation of House Rent Act
All the Ministries and Departments Trainee Graduates
(d) An officer who has obtained basic qualifications mentioned in Section 3(V) in any of the following services of the Provincial Public
Service :-
Management Assistant, Clerical, Stenographers, Typists, Shroffs, Book-Keepers, Translators, Store-Keepers, Librarian.
(e) An officer who has obtained basic qualifications mentioned in Section 3(V) in any of the following Services of the Provincial Public
Service :-
Revenue Inspector, Labour and Welfare Officer, Weights and measures Inspector, Relief Officer, Staff Assistant, Secretary,
Charity Commissioner's Department Colombo Municipal Council, Proof reader, Management Service Officer, Local Government
Officer, Project Co-ordinator -
(f) Officers who have obtained basic qualifications mentioned in Section 3(V) above and holding any other designation approved by
the Director General of the Establishment time to time.
07–951
Department/Ministry Grade
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.