

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2319$26 – 2023 fmnrjdß ui 13 jeks i÷od – 2023'02'13
No. 2319/26 – MONDAY, FEBRUARY  13, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG6212 – 16(02/2023)
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE WESTERN PROVINCE
Notiﬁ cation under Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15, of 1987,  read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12, of 1989
I. Roshan Goonetileke. the Governor of the Western Province, in terms of the powers vested in me under Section 123 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. read with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 
of 1989 do here by notify that my approval has been given for t he by-laws, described in the Schedule herein under, made 
by the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of the Sub Section 122(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 read with 
Section 126 of the aforesaid Act
 
 Rඈඌඁൺඇ Gඈඈඇൾඍංඅൾ඄ൾ,
 RWP And BAR VSV USP PHD FIM Sri Lanka) ndc psc,
 Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force,
 The Governor,
 Western Province.
 
At Governors' Oﬃ  ce - Western Province,
Provincial Council Oﬃ  ce Complex,
Battaramulla.
On 30th Day of November, 2022,


<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 2A
BY-LAW
RELATING TO THE BATHING PLACES  WITHIN THE PRADESHIYA  SABHA
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate and control public bathi ng places maintained within the authority 
area of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha . 
    
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law relating to the bathing places within the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha 
.
3.  The Pradeshiya sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126 (ix 
  of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 read with the Sub sect ion 122 of the said Act.
 
4.  A bathing area, a well or a pool of water belonging to a ri ver, stream or canal which exists or is 
maintained as a public bathing place for public bathing within the territory of the Pradeshiya sabha 
(hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be applicable for the purposes under this by-law. 
   
5.  When it comes to a public bathing area belonging to a river, stream or canal located within the authority 
area, with respect to each of those public bathing areas, 
   
 (1) The place shall be maintained under a notice board with th e words declaring it a public bathing 
place. 
   
 (2) Notices shall be displayed about the area that can be used safely as a bathing place and the safety 
precautions to be taken in a way that makes it easy for the public to use the bathing area. 
   
 (3) Stairs shall be made with cement and it shall not be slipp ery in such a way to allow safe access 
to water for bathing. 
   
 (4) Whenever possible women and men shall have separate access to the water. 
   
 (5) Maintaining the bathing area shall not endanger any tree in the river, stream, canal or lake reserve 
where the bathing area is located. 
   
 (6) Normally the bathing area shall be used from 06.00 a.m to 07.00 p.m and the bathing area could 
be used at night only if adequate electric lighting is provided at the location. 
   
 (7) Separate places to change clothes shall be set up for men and women.
 
 (8) Usage of alcohol shall be prohibited in any form around th e bathing area and notices shall be 
prominently displayed in that regard. 
   
6.  The Pradeshiya sabha may provide and maintain additional se rvices and facilities for the users of 
the bathing place, and it shall be lawful to charge a fee as decided and published by the Pradeshiya 
sabha for such services and facilities.
   
7.  When there is a public bathing well or pool located within the authority area, with respect to each of 
those public bathing well or pool,    
 
 (1) The place should be maintained under a notice board with the words declaring it a public bathing 
place. 
   
 (2) Around the well or pool shall have a protective wall of th e height of at least 0.6096 metres 
above ground level and at least to a similar depth below ground level the well or pool should be 
Short name
Maintaining a  
public bathing 
place
Setting a fee
When it comes to a 
public bathing well 
or pool 

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 3A
permanently build securely with cement or granite. 
   
 (3) Whenever possible, the public bathing place shall be maintained so that it can be used separately 
for men and women, and separate places for women and men to cha nge clothes shall be 
maintained. 
   
 (4) Drainage should be arranged in such a way that the water u sed for bathing is easily prevented 
from leaking into the bathing well or pool and drains easily out of it. 
   
 (5) Buckets and ropes shall be there as needed to use the water for bathing, and the buckets shall be 
painted to prevent rust. 
   
8.  It is lawful to appoint committees by the Chairman consisti ng of representatives of the residents 
in the vicinity of every public bathing place to advise the Cha irman in such matters to assist in the 
action taken by the Pradeshiya sabha to maintain the public bat hing places in accordance with the 
provisions of section 4 and 5 above. 
  
   
9.  (1) The function of a committee appointed under section 8 a bove shall be as follows.
(A) If there are instances where it is observed that the users of the public bathing places do not comply 
with the provisions of this by-law, they shall report thereon to the Chairman.
(B) To inquire into the requirements of the relevant place for the beneﬁ t of the public and to advise 
and report to the Chairman.
(C) To perform relevant functions with the participation of Lab our in cases where there is a need to 
clean the bathing pool and well for the beneﬁ t of public health.
(D) To take all possible steps to protect the water sources and the surrounding ﬂ ora and fauna, and to 
advise the Chairman in this regard.  
   
 (2) Committees appointed for the purpose under Sub-section (i)  shall gather from time to time and 
shall inform the Chairman of the decisions to be taken. 
   
10.  It is the duty of the Pradeshiya sabha to take all possibl e steps to maintain the proper public baths 
located within the authority area. 
   
11. (1) It is lawful to prohibit the use of any public bathing place for a speciﬁ ed period of time by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in the event of any epidemic situation 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any of the regulations made under it, 
applicable to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka.  
   
 (2) Such an order shall be prominently displayed in a public bathing place. 
  
 
12.  No person shall bath or use the public bathing place for a ny other purpose when the Chairman has 
prohibited using a public bathing place under the section 11 of this by-law during the period of such 
prohibition. 
   
13.  (1) In case of any epidemic of any infectious or transmissible disease in the area, the Chairman shall 
issue instructions on the procedure to be followed by a person taking a bath in or using a public 
bathing place in accordance with the instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.  
Appoiment of  
committee
The Function
of committee
Prohibition of use 
when an epidemic 
is declared
Publication of  
regulations relating 
to an epidemic 
Situation

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 4A
 
 
 (2) All provisions under Sub-section (1) above shall be prominently displayed in the public bathing
place and all persons using the public bathing place shall obey the rules. 
   
14.  Anyone who suﬀ ers from an epidemic or spends a quarantine period after an epidemic or on quarantine 
period on suspicion of such an illness should not use a public bath. 
   
15.  In a public bathing place,
(A) Disposal of the waste generated shall be as speciﬁ  ed by the Chairman and no waste shall be 
released into the external environment.
(B) A garbage bin shall be speciﬁ cally reserved and maintained in the place to dispose things such as 
face masks or gloves worn by any person and shall be disposed only to the garbage bin.
(C) The waste collected shall be disposed according to the waste management program implemented 
by the PradeshiyaSabha.
   
16.  Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from a publ ic bathing place in any instance. 
   
17.  No person shall urinate or defecate in the vicinity of a public bathing place unless there are toilets and 
latrines provided by the Pradeshiya sabha in an area designated as a public bathing place. 
   
18.  Shall not wash vehicles, machineries or agrochemical spraying machines in a place that is maintained 
as a public bathing place. 
   
19.  No person shall bathe, wash or enter any animal in or near  any place designated as a public bathing 
place.
    
20.  No person shall roam, walk around a public bathing place w ithout any purpose. 
   
21.  The public bathing place shall be regularly inspected by a n oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
ensure that it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law. 
   
22.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a pubic bathing place against the provisions of this by-law or violate the 
provisions of this by-law and after being found guilty by a cou rt of competent jurisdiction shall be 
Subject to a ﬁ ne under Sub-section 123(2) of the Pradeshiya sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.  
 
23.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law;
“Pradeshiya sabha” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha  too;
"Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha for 
the time or the person who perform the duties of that position,
“Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health” means the person holds the oﬃ  ce of that position for the Division of 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the Kalutara local authority at the time;
"Authorized Oﬃ  cer" means an oﬃ  cer authorized by the then Chairman in writing.   
 
24.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
Disposal of waste
That bathing and 
entering animals is 
prohibited
Quality
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency  
between texs

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 5A
 BY-LAW ON THE MAINTENANCE OF LAUNDRY AND WASHING PLACES .
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate and supervise the operat ion of laundry and washing places 
maintained within the authority area of the Kalutara PradeshiyaSabha.
 
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law on the Maintenance of Laundry and Washing Places in the Kalutara  
PradeshiyaSabha. 
3.  The Pradeshiya sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 122(1) 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15. of 1987 read with Sub Section 126 IX of the aforesaid Act. 
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Kalutara Pradeshiy a Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall operate a laundry or a washing center (hereinafter referred to as a premise) except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
  
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
Submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
7. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are fulﬁ lled. 
 (1) If the constructions relevanot to the premises are permanent constructions, all such constructions 
Shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of the  Urban Development Authority 
Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
  (2) There shall be separate room facilities for temporary storage of cloths brought for cleaning in the 
premises till cleaning.
 (3) Accepting cloths for cleaning on the premises and returning the cleaned cloths shall not be done 
by one person at the same time.
 (4) When washing, drying and reprocessing of clothes take  place in the same premises,
  (A) Drainage related to the premises shall be maintained in s uch a way that it is easily drained 
and wastewater shall be diverted to a septic tank, soakage pit or central treatment unit according 
to approved procedures.
  (B) Machines used for washing and drying clothes shall be in good working condition, properly 
ﬁ tted to the ﬂ oor and set up so that the noise generated during operation does not spread to the 
outside.
  (C) The electrical circuit of the premises shall be one which  is ﬁ xed permanently and the plugs 
shall be properly ﬁ tted for the required electrical capacity.
  (D) The water discharged during washing shall be ﬁ  nally disposed of without any outﬂ ow.
 (E) Windows and openings shall be ﬁ  tted out to allow light and air to enter the premises easily, 
and if not shall be artiﬁ cially lighted and air conditioned.
 (F) Tables and other equipment for ironing work shall be set u p at a suﬃ  cient distance so that 
they can be used properly.
Short title
Applyning for a 
License 
Conditins for a 
license 

<!-- page 6 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 6A
 (G) Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided for the emp loyees working on the premises 
and adequate latrine facilities shall be provided for both males and females.
 (H) There shall be hygienic containers to keep the cleaned clo thes temporarily and they shall 
not contact with the dirty clothes in any way.
 
 (I) There shall be rooms or partitions with doors that can be closed to keep clothes after ironing 
until they are returned.
 (J) The interior of the premises shall be designed to maintain  a proper distance when required.
 (5) When washing clothes outside the premises, a public water source shall not be used for that purpose 
and the applicant shall be certiﬁ ed,
 (A) That washing clothes will be done at a place speciﬁ  ed for that purpose and that the place 
will be conﬁ rmed from time to time;
 (B) That no chemical used in cleaning clothes are released int o any water source after use. 
 
 (6) When washing clothes is done outside the premises, necessa ry facilities shall be provided to 
ensure that dirty clothes are not mixed or contact with cleaned clothes in any way while carrying 
dirty clothes outside the premises to wash and bringing them back after cleaning.
 
 (8) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers. 
 
 (9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ  cient capacity shall be available to be 
utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
 
 (10) Internal drainage and sewage disposal in the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or 
soakage pit, and if the septic tank or soakage pit is in a water source, it shall be more than 15.25 
meters away.
 
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lice nse made under this by-law, the Chairman; 
 Issuing a license
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7. 
 
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
9.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council Subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
 
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously can celled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license is related.
 
11. All persons received a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein.
 (1) The clothes handed over for cleaning shall be kept in a container in a speciﬁ c room on the premises 
Issuing a licenseg
fees for a license 

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 7A
until it is cleaned. 
 (2) Disposal of any chemicals used to clean clothes on the premises shall be done in accordance with 
the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or  the Public Health Inspector.
 (3) Drains or pipes which discharge waste water due to cleanin g of clothes in the premises shall be 
directed to a septic tank or soakage pit so that it does not open on the ground surface.
 
 (4) Latrines for employees on the premises shall be kept clean and disinfected. 
 (5) If burning charcoal is used for ironing, they shall be thoroughly extinguished after use, collected 
in a separate container and disposed as waste.
 
 (6)  If there are residential employees on the premises;
 (A)Separate residential facilities shall be provided under ade quate sanitation facilities.
 (B)The area for the purpose of accommodation and dining on the  premises shall be kept separate 
from the area where the licensing process takes place. 
 
 (7) A person suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infecte d or such a vector or 
an infected person shall not be employed on the premises in any way and the license holder shall 
be always satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed.
 (8) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained Subject to all such terms.
 (9) It is lawful for the Chairman to order, on the instruction s of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, to 
carry out all or some of the following actions in connection wi th the conduct of license- related 
functions in the premises in the event of the implementation of regulations relating to any epidemic 
situation in the authority area under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the 
regulations made under it.
 (A) That the activities on the premises carried out under the license shall be temporarily suspended 
for a certain period of time.
 (B) That work shall be carried out keeping speciﬁ  c social distancing while working on the 
premises.
 (C)  A speciﬁ  c procedure shall be followed in handing over dirty clothes, cleaning and returning.
 (D)The health guidelines applicable to the activities on the p remises shall be displayed in a 
manner visible to the public and employees.
 (E)  That shall enter into a statement of agreement with the C hairman stating that the premises 
will be maintained in accordance with the health regulations applicable from time to time.
 (F)  Employees working on the premises shall engage in work we aring gloves and masks for 
speciﬁ c purposes.
 (G) That the premises shall be disinfected.
 
12. Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed to seale d garbage bins speciﬁ cally maintained 
for that purpose, and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises, all of them shall only 
be disposed into foot-operated  containers which shall be maint ained on the premises for only that 
purpose.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 8A
 
13. Waste collected on the premises shall be disposed in accord ance with the waste management program 
implemented by the PradeshiyaSabha. 
14. Each premises shall display this by-law and the license obt ained thereon or a copy thereof. 
15. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Public Health Inspector or any other authorized 
oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect w hether the premises is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law. 
16. (1) In the event of being against this by-law or violation of the provisions of this by-law in a premises         
licensed under this by- law, the Chairman shall Submit to the license holder a notice informing a speciﬁ c
  time period not exceeding thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law.
 
 (2) After Submitting a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may grant an additional 
period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be in accordance with the 
terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be Subject to a maximum period of fourteen 
days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event  that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above.
18. It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, shall 
be Subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradesh iya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 of the 
said Ordinance. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after 
the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be Subject to an 
additional penalty referred to in that    Sub-sectio for earch day of such violation. 
19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in th is by- law,
 
 “Council” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
 
“Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha 
at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division  relevant  to the authority area of the PradeshiyaSabha.
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health  relevant to the authority area of 
the PradeshiyaSabha.
 "Basic Law" means the  Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this by-law the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
That the license 
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a 
permises
Cencellation of the 
license 
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency 
between textsg

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 9A
 
First Schedule
Application for a License for the year.......................
1. Name of the applicant: -
2. Personal Address: -
3. National Identity Card Number: -
4. Phone number: -
5. Start year: -
6. Address of the laundry or the washing place: -
7. Grama Niladhari Division: -
8. Assessment Number: -
9. Approved building plan number and date: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year …………
 
Date: -           ………………………………. 
              Signature of the applicant
 
For oﬃ  ce use
 
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: -         ................................. 
                 Secretary
 
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date: -         ……………………….
             Revenue Inspector
 
Chairman,
I recommend issuing a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back. Date: - 
...................................
            Secretary
Secretary,
 
I approve the issuance of a license.
Date: - .................................
            Chairman

<!-- page 10 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 10A
      BY - LAW ON HAIRDRESSING CENTERS
1.  This by-law is enacted to  regulate and Supervise hair dressing centres and barber shops in the authority 
area of the Kalutara PradeshiyaSabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law on Hairdressing Centrers  of the Kalutara PradeshiyaSabha.
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126 (xxiii) of the said Act. 
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of theKalutara Pradeshiya  Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a hairdressing center or barber shop (hereinafter referred to as the 
premises) except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared
  in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
Submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
  unless the following conditions are Fullﬁ  lled. 
   
 (1) Constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of 
the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the Housi ng and Urban Development 
Ordinance.  
 (2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business name.  
   
 (3) Proof that the employees who work on the premises are skilled in hairdressing shall be Submitted. 
  
 (4) Constructions on the premises shall be well constructed of permanent construction materials and 
in good health safety condition.
   
 (5) Space set apart for providing services for each customer shall be minimum of 2.25 square meters 
and there shall be adequate space proportionate to the number of customers who are to be  provided 
services at the same time. 
   
 (6) For any Customer who arrive therein in anticipation of services shall provided with adequate space 
to be seated conveniently with at least 1.5 meters distance from the place where another customer 
is being served. 
   
 (7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meters high customer and shall be painted. 
   
 (8) Each part of the premises shall be ﬁ nished with a ceiling or concrete slab at a height of not less  
than 2.7 meters from the ground level. 
   
 (9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that  can be opened suﬃ  ciently to allow 
air to ﬂ ow in from the outside. 
   
 (10)  premises shall be ﬁ nished to receive light ﬁ nely.  
   
 (11)  Drinking water for use in the premises shall be adeguately supplied and shall eguipped with water 
storage facilities. 
Short title
Legal power
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 11A
   
 (12) If required clients shall be provided with the facilities to take a shower after setting their hair. 
   
 (13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for w ashing the equipment and containers 
used for the customers.
 
 (14)  There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employees and customers of the institution and 
it shall be well constructed and hygienic. 
   
 (15)  Speciﬁ c equipment shall be ﬁ  xed to wash hair of the customers, and shall be maintained by 
cleaning and. disinfecting after use by one person before use by another. 
   
 (16) Adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that wastewater discharged from the premises does not 
ﬂ ow into public drains or open spaces, and shall be properly directed to a septic tank or soakage 
pit.
   
 (17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises shall not be open to the outside and if there 
is a water source it shall be constructed at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.   
   
 (18) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequate facilities for the customers waiting 
for services.. 
   
 (19) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked by a professional and certiﬁ ed to be safe 
from leakage. 
   
 (20) A separate place shall be maintained to clean the equipment and containers used in the premises.
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this by-law, the Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the premises if it is in accordance with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it is not complied with the conditions mentioned 
in Section 7. 
   
9.       (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided and
            declared by the Council Subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license is related. 
   
11.  All persons received a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained Subject to all such terms. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a 
license
Validity period 
of a license

<!-- page 12 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 12A
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all orders issued by the Chairman on 
the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of an outbreak of an epidemic being declared 
under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service facilities shall not 
be provided on the premises unless all persons seeking services come to the premises in accordance 
with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly o n the premises as directed by the Director 
General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman on their instructions, 
in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in the authority area to protect from it, and the license 
holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) Every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and  hair removal of the customers, everyone 
who engages in such activities shall wear face masks and gloves as much as possible. 
   
 (6) A document containing information relevent to each customer recei ving the services shall be 
maintained. 
   
 (7) Customers shall be encouraged to bring their own cloths to  cover the upper body when service is 
given, otherwise the used cloths shall not be used for another customer until it has been washed, 
dried and cleaned after used for one customer. 
 
 (8) As recommended by the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health, Public Health Inspector all equipment, combs, 
brushes, etc., used for the activities including haircuts shall not be used for another customer unless 
disinfected after used for one customer.
    
 (9) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of air  in the premises, and if air conditioned, 
all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature. 
   
 (10) The ﬁ  lters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regularly cleaned and maintained.
    
 (11) The relevant service shall be provided only after the hands have been cleaned with soap or sanitizer 
before providing the service to the customer. 
   
 (12) When working on the premises, the service shall not be pr ovided to a customer without adequate 
cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any contaminants. 
   
 (13) When serving the customers on the premises, every service provider shall wear an apron and it shall 
be of very clean condition.  
 (14) Dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each service on the premises, and all shall be temporarily 
disposed into a sealed garbage bin. 
   
 (15) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleaned daily with disinfectant before starting work.
 
 (16) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose. 
   
 (17) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for th e separate collection of waste collected in 

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 13A
the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that. 
   
 (18) The following procedures shall be followed in the management / of waste that collects in relation to 
the premises.
  (A) Removed hair shall be collected at the end of each servic e and disposed in a separate garbage 
bin.
  (B) Other waste generated by the activities in the premises s hall be collected separately without 
mixing them with the discharged hair.
 (C)  The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance with the waste disposal strategy implemented 
by the license holder as agreed by the Public Health Inspector.
 (19) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected  at least twice a day and shall be kept free 
from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an e pidemic in the authority area, the 
latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with the guidelines given by 
the Chairman as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 (20) All employees work on the premises shall have a proper tr aining in using equipment, and shall not 
use any chemical for dyeing that is not approved by the health. authoritry.
 (21) Any person who suﬀ ers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has recently suﬀ ered 
from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person who has recently infected from any such 
disease, unless the period of infection and incubation has expired, shall not be employed or employed 
as an assistant at any licensed place. 
   
 (22) Any person identiﬁ ed as suﬀ ering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall not normally 
be entered to the premises for service.. 
   
 (23) When the license holder decides or in case where it is pr escribed by the Chairman or any other 
competent authority instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the body temperature of all persons 
visits seeking services on the premises shall be checked and entered into the premises, and required 
thermometers shall be maintained to check the body temperature without contact. 
   
 (24) The health guidelines to be followed by each customer on the premises shall be displayed on the 
premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activities are carried out in accordance with those 
guidelines. 
   
 (25) First aid facilities shall be maintained on the premises and the staﬀ  employed shall be trained for that 
as well. 
  
 (26) Relevant to all persons who serve on the premises, the li cense holder shall ensure, 
 
(A) That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good health condition.
(B) That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not harm the customer.
(C) That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to service
   
 (27) It is the responsibility of the license holder to Subject  the employees work on the premises for a 
medical checkup at least once a year.
(28)  A copy of this by-law and the license shall be displayed in all premises.    
 

<!-- page 14 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 14A
12.   It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any o ther oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect whether the premises is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law.
13.  T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of  it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health.
14.   In the event of an order is in eﬀ ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance   
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order.
 
 15.  It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Pub lic Health Inspector or any other   
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time  
to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
 16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-la w violates the provisions of this by-law or 
acts against it, the Chairman shall Submit a notice to the lice nse holder informing a speciﬁ c time 
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
  (2) After Submission of a notice under this Section to the li cense holder, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The peiiod granted so shall be Subject to a maximum period of 
fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
17.   The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the eve nt that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 above
18.    It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be Subject to a penalty under Subsection 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be Subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 122(2) of the P radeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
for each day of such violation.
19.   Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law 
“Council” means Kaluthara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
 
“Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Kaluthara Pradeshiya
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position, 
 
“Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Public Health Inspector attached to
the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of
the Pradeshiya Sabha,  
"Disinfectants" means a chemical agent that physically reduces the amount of microorganisms in the environment to a level that does not reduce their safety or suitability,  
"Reasonable time" means the time engaged in a licensed activity or related work. Deﬁ nitions 
20.   In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, En glish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.  
Power to enter 
the permises
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency
between Texts

<!-- page 15 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 15A
Schedule 
Application for a Trade License for the year.......................  
 
01. Name of the applicant: - 
02. Personal Address: - 
03. National Identity Card Number: - 
04. Phone number: - 
05. Nature of the business: - 
06. Start year: - 
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: - 
09. Assessment Number: - 
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -   
11. The manager or agent of the place of business, 
  I. Name and Personal Address: -
   II. National Identity Card Number: -
  III. Phone Number     Mobile: -       Fixed: - 
 
Number and date of the Construction approval Plan relevant to the business (Copies Should be attached)   
I certify that the above information is true and correct. 
 
 I request that a business license to be issued to me for the y ear ............................ for the place where the 
industry, business mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard. 
Date:-               ……………………………….          
        Signature of the applicant  
 
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in 
relation to the application mentioned on the back.
 
Date:-        
            .................................                      
            Secretary 
 
Secretary, 
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license
Date :-                 ……………………… 
            Revenue Inspector 
 
 Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
 I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back. 
Date:-                                                              
        .................................                      
            Secretary 
   
 Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report 
to recommend the issuance of licenses. 
Date :-                                                       . ................................ 
Public Health Inspector         
Secretary, 
I recommend/do not recommend issuing a license for the relevent plase as for the application it not 
recommended state the reason
Date :-                 ……………………… 
            Medical Health Oﬃ  cer

<!-- page 16 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 16A
             B Y-LAW 
OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA RELATING OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROURS TRADE
1.  This by-law is enforced to regulate, supervise, and control  the oﬀ ensive dangerous trade conducted 
  within the authority area of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha.
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law of the Kalutara Pradeshi ya sabha relating oﬀ ensive and dangerous 
trade.
3.  The Pradeshiya sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126 (ix) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 with the Sub section 122 of the said Act.
4.  It shall be lawful for the Pradeshiya sabha to determine and publish from time-to-time which trades 
are oﬀ ensive trades, dangerous trades and oﬀ ensive and dangerous trades are relevant to the purpose 
of this by-law among the trades established and maintained within the authority area of the Kaluthara 
Pradeshiya sabha (hereinafter referred to the authority area).
  
5.  No person shall engage in any form of oﬀ  ensive trade, dangerous trade or oﬀ ensive and dangerous 
trade (hereinafter referred to trade) as declared under section 3 above in any premises located within 
the authority area except under a license obtained from the Chairman of the PradeshiyaSabha.
  
6.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall a pply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule of this by-law.
  
7.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by Submitting the application by 
fulﬁ lling the requirements by registered post, handing over in han d to the Pradeshiya sabha or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the PradeshiyaSabha.
  
8.  It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ  xed inspection fee for site inspections to be 
carried out prior to the issuance of a license in respect of each application made under this by-law.
  
9.  Any one Applying for a license under this by law shall have  ful Fulled the following conditions
  
 (1) If there are permanent constructions under the premises wh ere the trade is being carried out 
(hereinafter referred to as the premises), the relevant constructions should be constructions made 
in accordance with a plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 
or under the Housing and Development Ordinance.
  
 (2) If the area is zoned in accordance with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 
41 of 1978 or the Housing and Development Ordinance, the premises should be set up accordingly.
  
 (3) All relevant constructions shall be in a properly ﬁ nished but shall be constructed in such a way 
as not to adversely aﬀ ect the trade conducted on the premises in any way.
  
 (4) The premises shall have space to enable the relevant opera tions to be carried out at a suﬃ  cient 
distance.
  
 (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper cleanliness.
  
 (6) If there is a manufacturing process on the premises, the part for it shall be speciﬁ cally separated 
and the premises shall be designed to prevent customers from en tering it in any way except for 
Short title
That a license 
shall be abtained
Conditions for a 
license
Inspection fee

<!-- page 17 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 17A
those who are engaged in the relevant activities.
  
 (7) If there are storage facilities in the premises, the relev ant warehouses should be arranged in 
accordance with the proper safety standards and suitable for th e purpose and shall be in a safe 
and proper condition with adequate space.
  
 (8) The premises shall be properly lighted and ventilated, or artiﬁ cially meet the requirements.
  
 (9) The ﬂ oor of the construction section and the non-construction secti on shall be prepared with a 
suitable slope so that it can be easily cleaned and easily drained.
  
 (10) The walls of the buildings on the premises shall be made of water-repellent material that can be 
easily cleaned, and the ceiling shall be installed for the parts where the trade is carried out other 
than those used for operations.
  
 (11) Doors and windows used for buildings on the premises shall have a smooth surface so that they 
do not absorb water and doors for restricted areas shall be ﬁ  tted in such a manner as to close 
automatically.
  
 (12) The premises shall have a ﬁ re protection program in place and a ﬁ re safety certiﬁ cate should be 
obtained as applicable.
 (13) All drains installed in and around the premises shall be arranged in such a way which can easily 
drain waste water and shall be directed to the culverts or cent ral treatment unit so that it is not 
open to the environment.
  
 (14) Soakage pits, suction pits installed in the premises shal l be positioned in accordance with the 
approved plan and should be set at a distance of at least 15.25 m from a water source and should 
not be exposed to air.
  
 (15) When discharging sewage and feces on the premises,
 (A) It shall not in any way be allowed to ﬂ  ow into a public waterway, public drain, road or any 
other open area.
 (B) The soakage pit or suction pit to which they are directed shall not be exposed to the air and 
shall be prepared in such a manner as not to pollute the ground water due to that pit.
 (C) The relevant soakage pit or suction pit shall be at least 15.25 m from any water source.
  
 (16) If chemical waste water produced due to a manufacturing p rocess on the premises, it should not be 
  disposed of without treatment under the direction of a speciﬁ  c authority.
  
 (17) (A) Adequate supply of drinking water to the premises shall be provided and water storage 
facilities shall be provided.
(B) Water storage tanks shall be of suﬃ  cient height and the water stored there shall not be polluted  
in any way.
(C) If drinking water and non-drinking water are to be used in the premises, the drinking water shall 
be carried through separate pipelines so as not to be mixed with the non-drinking water, and such 
pipes shall be painted in diﬀ erent colors.
  

<!-- page 18 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 18A
 (18) For employees working in the premises,
(A) If employed as a resident, there shall be accommodation facilities with adequate sanitary facilities.
(B) When providing residential facilities, the accommodation facilities should be at least four square 
meters per person.
(C) Adequate toilet facilities for the residents shall be kept separate from those of men and women 
and shall be of proper standard.
(D) If there are sections relevant to the business function and  manufacturing functions the residents' 
section of the premises shall be maintained separately.
  
 (19) Adequate space shall be provided for customers visiting t he premises to be able to maintain 
physical distance when required.
  
 (20) In the event of an epidemic within the authority area und er the Quarantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it, adequate health care facilities shall be 
provided to enable the applicable regulations in such cases.
  
10.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a l icense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman,
  
 (1) Shall issue a permit for the premises to the applicant in accordance with the information under 
section 8.
  
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons in case  of non-compliance with the conditions 
under section 8.
  
11.  The fee to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fee to be decided and published 
annually by the Council Subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
  
12.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until 31st December of the year in which the license applies.
  
13.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall act in accord ance with the conditions set out herein.
  
 (1) If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from time to time under the instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or in any part of the territory or in any case where an epidemic 
has been declared under the regulations made under the Quaranti ne and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained Subject to each such rule.
  
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all orders made by the Chairman 
on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in respect of any epidemic declared under the 
Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any regulations made thereon.
  
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, services should not be provided 
on the premises unless the person seeking employment comes in a ccordance with the health 
instructions issued to control the spread of the disease.
  
 (4) Health safety instructions imposed by the Director General  of Health Services or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman as per their instructions in the event of an epidemic or risk 
Issuing a license
frees for license

<!-- page 19 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 19A
of an epidemic in the authority area shall be implemented and the licensee should be satisﬁ ed of 
doing so.
  
 (5) First aid facilities should be provided relevant to each p remises so that they can be used for 
emergencies and the staﬀ  should be trained for that.
  
 (6) Adequate ﬁ re protection system should be installed in the premises and it should be maintained in 
proper condition under proper inspection. Everyone working on the premises should be aware of 
the functioning of the ﬁ re protection system in the premises and should be given an understanding 
through a rehearsal of how to respond in the event of an emergency ﬁ re.
  
 (7) Premises and employees work in the premises shall be insur ed under appropriate insurance.
  
 (8) Correct information on the area of residence, full name, i dentity card number and telephone number 
of each employee employed on the premises should be maintained and all such information should 
be submitted as recommended by the Chairman.
  
 (9) In the event of an epidemic in the area, everyone working on the premises shall act in accordance 
with the public health care instructions and the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
health care instructions issued by the Chairman in accordance with the instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, and the licensee shall ensure of it.
  
 (10) Appropriate arrangements should be made for the disposal of gloves, masks etc. used in the premises.
  
 (11) Thermometer shall be kept in order to measure the body temperature of all visitors to the premises 
so that it can be used when health advice is given.
  
 (12) The premises should be kept clean at all times and relate d activities including disinfection should 
be maintained under proper management.
  
 (13) If there are any hazardous areas in the premises, the relevant sign boards should be clearly displayed.
  
 (14) According to the nature of the trade, if there are any chemicals or other Substances that are harmful 
to health, advertisements should be pasted on the dangers and their usage.
  
 (15) If there are chemicals used and sold on the premises, the y should be securely packaged.
  
 (16) Anything on the premises should not be aﬀ  ected by the Tools, equipment, oils, disinfectants or 
anything else used for cleaning on the premises. 
  
 (17) Surfaces that are frequently touched when working on the premises shall be regularly cleaned with 
disinfectant.
  
 (18) No one shall spit on the premises.
  
 (19) If hand washing is required as a precautionary measure for visitors and employees on the premises, 
facilities should be provided for it.
  
 (20) (A) If hazardous material is stored or moved around the p remises, it should be stored in special 
safety containers.
(B) Skilled labor shall have been deployed for the above (A).
  

<!-- page 20 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 20A
 (21) For employees working in the premises,
(A) Adequate bathroom and toilet facilities for men and women shall be provided and shall be 
properly arranged.
(B) Restrictions on the activities of residents in a hazardous premise in accordance with the nature
of the trade shall be enforced by the licensee and the relevant notices shall be prominently displayed 
on the premises.
(C) Adequate security equipment and tools shall be provided according to the form of trade.
(D) Required training and advice must be provided by the licensee to act in accordance with all 
instructions and orders given by the Chairman as per the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
in the event of any epidemic or suspicion of any epidemic situation in the area or in any part of the 
country or throughout Sri Lanka.
(E) A health monitoring system should be set up in the premises and a process should be put in place 
to provide necessary advice to the employees.
  
 (22) In the event of an epidemic of transmissible or infectious disease in the authority area or in the event 
of a possible cause, the Chairman may instruct that one or more of the following steps be taken within 
the premises as recommended by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and those instructions given should 
be implemented by the licensee.
(A) Shall maintain a distance from each other while working in the premises.
(B) The minimum number of employees required for the service sh all be employed in small groups 
under several shifts.
(C) Public gatherings and meetings should not be held within the premises for a speciﬁ ed period of time.
(D) Shall make sure that the body temperature is under the normal range upon entering the premises.
(E) Meals shall be provided in small groups on the premises.
(F) Adequate disinfectant, soap and hand washing facilities have been provided to clean the hands of 
 the employees and visitors to the premises.
(G) Masks shall be used while working on the premises, taking into account the need.
(H) Everyone in the premises shall properly implement the respiratory etiquette.
(I) The activities within the premises shall be limited to a certain period of time.
(J) The employees working on the premises shall be Subjected to health checkups as prescribed by the 
 Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health within a speciﬁ ed period of time.
  
 (23) The premises shall be cleaned daily and the disinfection process shall be carried out as per a schedule 
according to the situation and the licensee should ensure that it is so.
  
 (24) The licensee should be aware of the potential risks in conducting the relevant trade on the premises, 
prescribe the appropriate remedies, etc., and take the necessary action.
  
 (25) The following measures should be taken in relation to the  waste management of the premises.

<!-- page 21 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 21A
(A)  Disposal of waste in the premises shall be carried out in a proper manner and if the waste is 
disposed in the premises in accordance with the waste managemen t program implemented 
by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the waste should be handed over in acc ordance with the relevant 
instructions and regulations.
(B)  Under no circumstances shall the licensee mix hazardous wa ste with other waste and hand it 
over.
(C)  In the case of premises not covered by the Solid Waste Man agement Service operated by the 
 Pradeshiya Sabha, the licensee shall dispose of the waste Subj ect to the conditions recommended 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.
(D)  If there is a hazardous waste generated in the premises, a ction shall be taken to dispose of the 
contaminant in accordance with the rules and regulations in force in that regard.
  
 (26) When the permit applicable to the premises is in force th e licensee shall maintain the premises in 
accordance with all instructions given by the Chairman on the recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health regarding the health safety measures of the employees of the premises and visitors to the 
premises.
  
 (27) The premises shall be maintained so as not to cause any odor or any other disturbance caused by any 
raw material or product or its by-product.
  
 (28) Packing height shall not exceed 1.5 m above ground level unless adequate security measures are in 
place when storing the manufacturing products on the premises or products for sale on the premises.
  
 (29) When the goods sold on the premises are governed by any other written law such as agrochemicals, 
chemicals or drugs, the relevant license shall be displayed on the premises in a manner that is properly 
visible to consumers.
  
 (30) All items for sale within the premises shall be packaged separately.
  
 (31) If emissions are released into the environment under prod ucts for sale on the premises, its release 
shall comply with the regulations of the Central Environmental Authority.
  
 (32) If noise is generated during activities on the premises, it shall be controlled in accordance with the 
regulations of the Central Environmental Authority.
  
 (33) Tools, water tanks, stoves and other equipment used in th e premises shall be properly cleaned and 
maintained after use.
  
 (34) Any prohibited chemical for any purpose on the premises s hall not be used.
  
 (35) All electrical wiring in the premises shall be properly maintained and a report shall be obtained from 
an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ ed professional at least once in every two years.
  
 (36) The extent of the premises reserved for customers shall n ot be used for any other use.
  
 (37) Every place, tools, utensils on the premises shall not be  kept in a manner of spreading mosquitoes, 
any other larvae or insects.
  
 (38) A vector or infected person suﬀ ering from or suspected of having an infectious disease shall not be 

<!-- page 22 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 22A
employed on the premises and the licensee should be satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed.
  
14.  A license issued under this by-law and the copies in three languages of this by-law shall be displayed 
in all licensed premises.
  
15.  When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into 
account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the  area, the licensee shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairman shall send a copy to the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health.
  
16.  It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other authorized 
oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain th e necessary samples and to inspect 
the premises in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
  
17. (1) In the event of a violation of the provisions of this B y-Law or any other contrary to the provisions 
of this By-Law in a premises licensed under this By-Law, the Chairman shall hand over a notice to 
the licensee to be compliance with the by-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty days.
  
 (2) Upon Submission of a notice under this section to the lice nsee, the Chairman may grant an additional 
period of time on a reasonable request to grant an additional p eriod to act in accordance with the 
terms of the relevant notice. The period which is granted so sh all be Subject to a maximum period 
of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
  
18.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the licensee fails to comply with the 
notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above.
  
19.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under t his by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of the by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall 
be liable to a penalty under Sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradesh iya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, and in the event of further breach of the law 
after a notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ   cer authorized by him, breach of the law 
must be Subject to an additional ﬁ  ne referred to in Sub-section 122 (2) of the old Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for each day in which they continue the breach of the law. 
20.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law;
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means .. Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha at 
present or the person who perform the duties of that position,
      "Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health Division 
relevant to the kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha area.
      "Authorized Oﬃ  cer" means any oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman in writing,
         "Reasonable time" means the time engaged in a licensed activity or related work,
"Trade" means taking of something or a commodity out and sellin g it for money, or preparation for sale, 
or production for sale.
That the 
license shall be 
displayed
Entering in to 
a statement of  
agreement
Entering a 
Permises and 
obtaining 
sample
Cancelletion to 
the license
Derﬁ nition

<!-- page 23 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 23A
 21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail
Schedule 
Application for a Trade License for the year.......................  
 
01. Name of the applicant: - 
02. Personal Address: - 
03. National Identity Card Number: - 
04. Phone number: - 
05. Nature of the business: - 
06. Start year: - 
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: - 
09. Assessment Number: - 
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -   
11. The manager or agent of the place of business, 
I. Name and Personal Address: -
 II. National Identity Card Number: -
III. Phone Number    Mobile: -       Fixed: - 
 
   
I certify that the above information is true and correct. 
 
 I request that a business license to be issued to me for the year ............................ for the place where the 
industry, business mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard. 
Date:-               .....…………………………… 
 Signature of the applicant  
 
For oﬃ  ce use
 Revenue Inspector, 
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back. 
Date:-        
            .................................                      
            Secretary 
  
Secretary, 
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license
Date :-                 ……………………… 
            Revenue Inspector 
 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back. 
Date:-                                                          ............................
                           Secretary 
 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
 Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses. 
Date :-                                                       . ................................          
          Public Health Inspector 
 
Secretary, 
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application. (If 
not recommended, state the reason). 
Date:-                                                               .................................          
                    Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
In consistency 
between texts

<!-- page 24 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 24A
 
BY-LAW
ON MOBILE TRADE THE KALUTHARA  PRADESHIYA SABHA
1.  This By-Law is enacted to make provisions for ancillary mat ters, including the supervision of traders 
engaged in mobile trade within the authority area of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law on mobile trade of the K alutara Pradeshiya Sabha.  
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 126 (x) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 150 of 1987 Read with the Sub section 122 of the said Act.
 
4.  A person who sells any commodity including goods or food wh ile visiting the Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha area (hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be obtained a license from the Chairman 
under this by-law. Obtaining a License 
   
5.  (1) Every person applying for a license under section 4 abo ve  shall apply for it through an application 
 form obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
 (2) The fee to be charged by the Pradeshiya sabha for issuing an application for a license under this 
by-law shall be as determined by the Council. 
   
6.  The Chairman shall not issue a license in this regard unles s all the persons applying for a license 
under this by-law as a mobile trader have fulﬁ lled the following: 
   
 (1) The identities of the trader or persons engaged in the mobile trade shall be veriﬁ ed in an acceptable 
manner. 
   
 (2) If a bicycle, tricycle, cart, or motor vehicle is used for  commercial purposes, evidence must 
be provided that it was designed or prepared in such a way that  it can be used for such 
purposes. 
   
 (3) If loudspeakers are used in the mobile trade, it should be ascertained that a license has been obtained 
from the relevant competent authority in the event that a relevant license is required. 
 (4) An outline of the areas intended for mob ile trade within the authority area shall be 
provided. 
   
 (5) If cooked food is sold in the mobile trade, all persons involved in the handling the relevant food 
shall have a certiﬁ cate of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the area in accordance with the format 
set out in this Schedule of the By-Laws. 
   
7.  The fee to be charged for a license issued under this by-la w shall be a proportion to the period 
for which the license is requested and the fee shall be determi ned and declared by the Sabha by a 
resolution. 
   
8.  The maximum validity period of a license issued under this by-law shall expire on 31st December of 
the year in which the license is issued and the relevant license may be issued for a period for which 
the license is applied for in the calendar year. 
   
9.  Every mobile trader shall keep the relevant license in his possession. 
   
10.  A license issued under this by-law shall be valid only for the period of its issuance unless it is revoked 
in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
11.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall conduct trade  in accordance with the following 
conditions. 
   
 (1) There shall be no noise or air pollution to the public due to t he mobile trade or its 
publicity. 
   
Short title
Obtaining a 
License
Applying For a 
License
Conditions to issue 
a License
 
Fee for a License
Conditions 
Applicable to a 
License

<!-- page 25 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 25A
 (2) (i) Any waste generated during the mobile trade shall not be di sposed to the surrounding 
environment; all waste should be handed over in accordance with the waste management program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha in the area. 
(ii) If the licensee manages the waste generated by himself, a certiﬁ cate in that regard shall be Submitted 
and consent obtained from the Public Health Inspector of the authority area.  
   
 (3) The trade shall be in accordance with the instructions and  criteria put in place by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event that 
there is a risk of an epidemic in the whole or part of the territory of Sri Lanka. 
   
 (4) The license issued under this by-law shall be kept in the possession of the trader at all times and 
shall be Submitted for inspection at any time upon request by t he Chairman or an authorized 
oﬃ  cer, a police oﬃ  cer. 
 
   
 (5) In the event of any outbreak of any contagious disease or contagious disease relating to the 
regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention Ordinance and any part of Sri Lanka within 
or within the authority area of Sri Lanka, the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall be notiﬁ ed in that 
regard. The licensee must act in accordance with the instructions and the licensee must be satisﬁ ed 
that his employees are acting accordingly.
 
 (6) 1.If cooked food is sold under the mobile trade,
 (i) All utensils and tools used for selling food shall be made of a Substance which does not emit any 
toxic Substance, odor or taste. Such equipment and tools shall be made of non-abrasive and non-
corrosive materials and shall be made of materials that are res istant to continuous cleaning and 
disinfection.
 (ii) All equipment and tools shall be designed in such a manner that antiseptics can be used for easy 
cleaning to prevent unhygienic.
 (iii) If frozen material is sold, it shall be ﬁ tted with compatible storage and temperature measuring or 
temperature recording equipment.
 (iv) Separate enclosed waste bins shall be maintained for the collection of waste accumulated during 
trade. However, when disposing of items such as face masks, one should keep sealed containers 
so that they do not mix with other waste.
 (v) All equipment and tools used shall be in good condition.
 (vi) Packaging should be designed and maintained to prevent food contamination and to prevent food 
from pests during the sale.
 (vii) Whatever equipment is used to serve food to the consumer they shall not be prepared in manner 
that cannot be reused.
 (viii) Food kept for sale shall not be contaminated in any way.
 (ix) Catching food shall not be done using money and a separate person should be employed for money 
transactions.
 (x) Metal grip should be used to hold food. 
 
(7) The mobile trade shall not disturb the movement of passenge rs or vehicles in any way. 
   
 (8) Trade shall be conducted only within a territory valid for  the license and in no way exceed the 
permitted period speciﬁ ed in the license. 
   
 (9) A person suﬀ ering from or infecting or infecting any person with any form of contagious disease 
shall not engage in trade or trade-related assistance and shall  maintain the sanitized material to 
be utilized when necessary. 
   
 (10) The meat of any animal Subject to the Slaughter Ordinance shall not be sold under the mobile 
Trade. 
   
 (11) No mobile trader should stay in one place for long periods of time. 

<!-- page 26 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 26A
   
12.  Even if there is a license issued under this by-law, the C hairman shall, on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, determine in or within the authority area or a ny part of it, if there is a risk of 
contagious or contagious disease spreading.
 (i) The activity may be permanently prohibited under a license  issued.
 (ii) Areas of trade may be restricted under the license issued .
 (iii) Operation under the license may be suspended. 
   
13.  It is legal for the Chairman or an authorized oﬃ  cer to obtain a sample of a food, commodity or item 
sold by a mobile trader at its price, and no licensee shall refuse or interfere with it. 
   
14.  If a person engages in mobile trade violates the provision s of this By-Laws and disregards the 
instructions given to comply with the By-Laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to revoke a license 
issued by Chairman under Article 3 of this By-Laws. 
   
15.  It is an oﬀ  ense to engage in the mobile trade without obtaining a license  under this by-law and to 
engage in the trade without a valid license, and after being convicted by a Magistrate's Court, he shall 
be Subjected to a penalty under Sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 150 of 1987 
   
16.  Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this by- law, this by-law,  
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha ,
"Chairman" means the person who holds the post of Chairman of t he Pradeshiya Sabha at present or the 
person who performs the function of that post.
   
A "Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health" is a person who holds that post in a particula r Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
division within the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that time.
A "Public Health Inspector" is a person who holds the post of a  Public Health Inspector in a division of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha area at that time.
"Contamination" refers to the entry or formation of a palatable Substance into a food or food background
“Food hygiene” includes all the conditions, steps and practice necessary to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages of the food chain;
"Mobile trade" means the trade of goods, food, or any other commodity by oneself or with the help of an 
animal, or by car, cart, bicycle, or tricycle. 
"Motor vehicle" also means the deﬁ nition given in the Motor Vehicles Ordinance.
17.  If there is a discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and E nglish texts in this by-law then the Sinhala 
text will prevail. 
   
First Schedule
Application for Trade License for the year..........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Nature of Trade: -
06. Grama Niladhari Division: -
I do hereby certify that the above information is true and correct.
Obtaining samples
Penaity
 for  violation
Inconsistency 
Between texts
Diﬁ nitions

<!-- page 27 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 27A
I request that a trade license be issued to me for the year ............................ for the industry and place of 
trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules on this.
Date:-                                                                                              ………………………….  Signature of the applicant 
For oﬃ  ce useRevenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to give me your observations and recommendations as soon as possible for the issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back page 
Date:-  .................................  Secretary
Secretary,I recommend / not recommend granting the license.
Date :-          …………………………….                                                                                                          Revenue Inspector
Medical oﬃ  cer of Health, I kindly request you to give me your observations and recommendations as soon as possible for the issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back page
Date:-  .................................
  Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by - laws and other rules and regulations. I recommend the issuance of 
licenses.
Date :-        
  …………………………….
                                                                                                          Public Health Inspector
Secretary, 
I/ I do not recommend issuing a permit for the relevent place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason)
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
 …………………………….
Schedule
Medical certiﬁ cate issued to Mobile traders in the …………………………..Pradeshiya sabha area
I.......................................... Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health ....................................... area do hereby certify that  
Mr. / Mrs.............................................. bearer of National Identity Card No. ................................. ......... 
was physically examined after a proper laboratory test revealed that he / she has not exposed an infectious 
disease or any illness that could pose a future threat to food safety. I also certify that he / she has suﬀ ered 
from skin infections, ulcers or diarrhea.
 Date :-    
 …………………………….
  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
  (Oﬃ   cial seal)
Photo

<!-- page 28 -->

28A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
BY-LAW REALATING TO HOTELS
   
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the operation of hotels within the 
authority area of the Kaluthara pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law Relating to Hotels of th e Kalutara pradeshiya Sabha  
  
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Kalutara Pradeshiy a Sabha (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a hotel (hereinafter referre d to as the premises in some places) 
except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section 5 can be made by fulﬁ lling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered pos t, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 197 8 or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance and;
 
  (A) The material used in all constructions shall not emit tox ic substances and shall not emit  
toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where organisms cannot be easily 
retained.
  (B) The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space  to enable the service to be performed 
without interruption. 
  (C) Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent ent ry of contamination substances into 
food raw material and cooked food.
  (D) Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the  internal foods of the premises.
  (E) Things disposed under the internal processing activities of the premises shall be arranged with 
references that will not ﬂ ow back in any way. 
   
(2)   In the food processing area of the premises, 
 
Short title.
Applying for 
a License.
Conditions for 
a license.

<!-- page 29 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
29A
  (A) Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and n on-absorbent materials.
  (B) All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned deterge nts and disinfectants. 
  (C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation  and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
  (D) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall b e shielded with covers prevent 
entering insects. 
  (E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ  ow of air from outside and to ﬂ ow exhaust 
air out. 
   
 (3) For the employees on the premises;
 
  (A) If working as residents, rooms with at least 4 square met ers of space per person shall be 
provided with adequate space outside the relevant section for customer service.
  (B) Toilet facilities shall be provided with adequate sanitat ion facilities and shall be separated as 
males and females.
  (C) The toilets and bathrooms provided shall be of permanent construction and shall be well-
constructed and built outside the premises for the customers. 
   
 (4) Premises shall have ﬁ  re safety certiﬁ cates as applicable and ﬁ re safety facilities shall be provided 
in the premises as speciﬁ ed. 
   
 (5) All buildings on the premises shall be constructed to allo w access to persons with disabilities and 
special needs. 
   
 (6) Waste generated in the premises shall be disposed of in ac cordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha and if the license holder himself disposes of the 
waste in the premises, the method followed shall be a method ap proved by the Public Health 
Inspector. 
   
 (7) When entering the premises, a speciﬁ  c procedure shall be maintained to verify the identity of the 
entrants and to record it. 
   
 (8) Adequate parking space shall be maintained in or near the premises for visitors to the 
premises. 
   
 (9) Boards shall be ﬁ  xed so that customers can know about the facilities and services provided on the 
premises, and if there is a registered business name or a corpo rate name registered with the Sri 
Lanka Tourism Authority, the relevant registration number shall be prominently displayed. 
   
 (10) The interior design of the premises shall be designed in a way that is more customer friendly and 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
pleasing, and the constructions and ﬁ xtures made shall not obstruct to the safety of the customer 
in any way. 
   
 (11) Staﬀ   employed or to be employed to serve customers on the premises shall be persons trained by 
reputed institutions to provide a professional service. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under Section 
7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not complied 
with. 
   
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections related 
to the issuance of a license. 
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ  rst of the year in which the license 
applies. 
   
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein. 
   
 (1) If the license holder is not the manager of the institutio n, the identity information requested by 
the Chairman regarding the manager shall be provided, and it sh all be provided so whenever 
changed. 
   
 (2) Loudspeakers used for festive occasions, parties or other activities on the premises shall be 
maintained in accordance with environmental regulations and terms so as not to disturb others by 
playing musical instruments. 
   
 (3) Adequate parking facilities shall be maintained so that no  vehicles come to the premises are 
parked on public access.  
   
 (4) Name, address, identity card number and contact numbers re lated to all persons comes to stay, 
and if there are information to be maintained speciﬁ ed from time to time by the Director of Health 
Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the authority area or the Chairman regarding  the 
persons anticipating services under the health reasons in the a uthority area all such information 
shall be documented and maintained. 
   
 (5) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Acting according
to an application
Conditions applicable
to a license

<!-- page 31 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
31A
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared  throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any  case where an epidemic has been 
declared applicable under the regulations made under Quarantine  and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (6) Room for accommodation, all spaces for accommodators use, latrines and bathrooms shall be 
disinfected before being used by another person after being used by one person and latrines and 
bathrooms shall be disinfected daily even while customers are present. 
   
 (7) Whenever there enough facts to suspect that there is a ris k of an epidemic in the authority area, 
the body temperature of everyone who comes to stay on the premi ses shall be measured before 
entering the premises to check whether the body temperature is within the speciﬁ c range by 
a person who is speciﬁ cally assigned for that purpose and everyone's hands and feet shall be 
cleaned with disinfectants before entering the premises. 
   
 (8) All reusable items such as pillowcases, bed sheets, blanke ts, towels etc., which kept in each 
room for the use of the customers shall not be used for another  customer without washing and 
cleaning. 
   
 (9) By no means shall not allow more than one adult in a singl e room, more than two adults in a 
Single room, more than three adults in a triple room, or exceed ing the maximum number of 
persons when four square meters per person is considered as the minimum space when the room 
can be accommodated by a group, and those over the age of ﬁ  ve years shall be considered as 
adults for the purpose in this subsection. 
   
 (10) Beds inside a room shall be maintained taking into accoun t the extent speciﬁ ed in subsection (9) 
above. 
   
 (11) Under no circumstances shall anyone be permitted to lodge  with a child except by a parent or 
legal guardian. 
   
 (12) No person shall be allowed to sleep in an open area excep t the rooms on the premises. 
   
 (13) No person shall be allowed to stay on the premises if the y do not agree to verify their identity 
or are unable to verify their identity, and the information regarding all persons staying shall be a 
statement under their signature. 
   
 (14) When it is not an air-conditioned room, all rooms shall b e well ventilated and allowed to be used 
after leaving the doors and windows open for some time. 
   
 (15) When a regulation under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance comes into force 
in respect of any epidemic situation in the authority area, fac ilities shall be provided the use the 
rooms in accordance with all the provisions of that regulation. 
   
 (16) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (17) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accorda nce with all guidelines made by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in any case where a disease is 
declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease 
Ordinance. 
   
 (18) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the autho rity area, relating to all persons who 
come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they visit the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (19) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk o f an epidemic, the health safety instructions 
prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Me dical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemente d in the premises in order to 
protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (20) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (21) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shal l be cleaned frequently with disinfectant 
and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are being so. 
   
 (22) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, and if 
it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards mentioning on that regard shall 
be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (23) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain wat er and shall be cleaned with disinfectants 
twice daily. 
   
 (24) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed  in any way to a public drain of the road 
or outside area. 
   
 (25) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there  is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (26) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (27) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with the 
following requirements. 
   
  (A)  All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shal l be made of a non-absorbent material 
that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be made of stainless material.

<!-- page 33 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
33A
  (B) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as t o be easily cleaned.
  (C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal  or non-leaking materials and shall 
have lids.
  (D) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitab le condition to be used. 
   
 (28) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not harm 
the taste of the food. 
   
 (29) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 
   
 (30) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
   
 (31) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from 
contamination. 
   
 (32) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (33) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that they can be distinguished from any other 
pipeline. 
   
 (34) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on the 
premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons shall be 
employed to regulate it. 
   
 (35) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises and shall 
always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used without contamination. 
   
 (36) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling f ood on the premises;
  (A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or ﬁ ngers 
  (B) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a fav orable  use for food. 
  (C) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
  (D) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall always be kept out of contact with any 
food. 
  (E) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean an d in separate containers.
  (F) Employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food i n such a way that their activity, 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way. 
   
 (37) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, handling, serving, or assembling 
food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions 
in addition to any other provisions of this By-Law. 
   
 (38) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels use d for cleaning shall be of clean 
condition. 
   
 (39) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premise s shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (40) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with  disinfectant shall be provided in the 
processing area of the premises and in the food consumption areas of the premises and adequate 
lighting shall be maintained in the premises. 
   
 (41) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use contamination 
of food. 
   
 (42) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premi ses in any way. 
   
 (43) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and shall 
be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant record s shall also be maintained so that 
they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the health check-ups on them shall be 
both clinical and epidemiological.
 
 (44) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (45) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the w ritten rules applicable to 
it. 
   
 (46) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public Health 
Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in accordance with the 
instructions given by him. 
   
 (47) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   

<!-- page 35 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
35A
 (48) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing on the 
premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers that are kept on the 
premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in ac cordance with the 
waste management program and instructions implemented by the Co uncil without mixing with 
other wastes. 
   
 (49) Every person who handle food on the premises shall mainta in maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, sho es and appropriate hygienic 
clothing. 
   
 (50) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease or a 
vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious 
disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
 (51) Every person involved in handling of food on the event ro oms of the premises shall not engage 
in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, which can cause 
food contamination. 
   
 (52) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises. 
   
 (53) In the event of any person visits the event rooms of the premises for consumption of food or 
employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, tran smittable or skin disease, the 
license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons on 
the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him. 
   
 (54) When the are Subjected ot the quarantine process the Prem ises event rooms of the premises shall 
not be used for any festive occasions until a certiﬁ cate has been issued by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or the Public Health Inspector stating that the quaranti ne period is over and the premises 
have been completely disinfected. 
   
 (55) Health care measures that are implemented on the event ro oms of the premises shall be prominently 
displayed on the premises in such a way that everyone who handl es and consumes food in the 
premises can learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted according to them. 
   
 (56) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on the 
premises to the Chairman. 
   
12.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the Chairman 
has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a state ment of agreement regarding the 
maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder 
shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy 
of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   

<!-- page 36 -->

36A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whe ther it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the l icense holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law.   
 
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 15 
above. 
   
17.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that 
oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after 
the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to 
an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid subsection 1 22 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act 
No. 15 of 1987 for each day of such violation.    
   
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  “Council” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license under 
this by-law,
Cancellation
of 
the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions
Power to enter
the premises

<!-- page 37 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
37A
 “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at tha t 
time,
 "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination  substance in a food, 
 "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in  the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
 "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices t o ensure the safety and suitability of food 
at all stages in the food chain,
 "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is l ikely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects,
 "Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to t he customer during preparing, processing, 
selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work, 
 "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 
   
19.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this by-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.  
Schedule
Application to obtain a license to operate a hotel for the year...........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Inconsistency
 between texts

<!-- page 38 -->

38A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
Date:-             
                ……………………………….
               Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back.
 
Date:-            .................................
                       Secretary
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :-            ………………………
                             Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license 
in respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date :-                                 .................................
                                Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.
 
Date :-                                  .................................
                             Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the rel evant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date :-                                  .................................
                    Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health

<!-- page 39 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
39A
 
 BY-LAW ON RESTAURANTS OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
1. This by-law will be enacted to regularize and monitor the re staurants, hotels and canteens  which  are 
preparing, selling and provide dine in facilities of foods such as bakery and other food productions as 
cooked food, tea, coﬀ ee within the Kaluthara. Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
2.   This by-law is called the By-Law on Restaurants of the Kal uthara. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
3.   The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 126(IX)    
of  Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act. 
 
 
 4.  Anyone within the territory of the Kaluthara Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the territory) 
shall not maintain restaurants, hotels, canteens and cafeterias  (hereinafter referred to as premises) 
which are preparing, selling and provide dine in facilities of foods such as bakery and other food 
productions as cooked food, tea, coﬀ ee except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this 
by-law.  
 
 5.   All persons applying for a license under this by-law shal l apply for it under an application form 
prepared in accordance with the Schedule of this by-law.     
 6.   Submission of an application under the above clause may b e made by completing the relevant 
requirements and by submitting through registered post, by hand, or by e-mail to the extent permitted      
        by the Council.
 7.  Anyone applying for a license under this by-law must have fulﬁ lled the following conditions.   
  
(1)  All constructions related to the premises should be constr uctions as per the plan approved 
under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or und er the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance and, 
 
(A)  The material used in all constructions shall be prepared i n such a way that the toxic material 
does not emit toxins and does not emit toxic gases and all surfaces should be constructed not to 
be easily retained by organisms. 
(B)  The internal layout should be designed with adequate space to enable the service to be performed 
without interruption. 
(C)  The food raw material and cooked food should be stored in a space designed with a safe 
preparation to prevent the ingress of toxins.
(D)  The premises shall be designed to check the hygienic condi tions of the internal food.
That a license 
should be 
obtained
Conditions for a 
license
Short Title
Applying for a 
License

<!-- page 40 -->

40A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 
   (E) Disposal under the internal processing activities of the  premises shall be arranged with 
references that will not be returned in any way. 
(2)  At the food processing area on the premises,
 
  (A) Floors and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and water-repellent material.
 
  (B) All surfaces shall be free from detergents and disinfecta nts which can be easily cleaned.
 
  (C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation  and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
 
  (D) If there are windows and other openings, they should be c overed with insect repellent.
 
  (E) Absorbent fans shall be placed for easy ﬂ  ow of outside air and exhaust air. 
 
(3) With respect to the catering area on the premises, 
 
             (A) Adequate space should be provided for customer s to sit individually and in groups.            
   (B) When the relevant part of the catering area is an open space to the environment, it should be 
well ventilated and inaccessible to birds and other animals.           
   (C) Speciﬁ  c toilets shall be constructed for customers and shall be located at a suﬃ  cient distance 
and in other directions with automatic closing doors. 
 
           (D) If the catering area is an enclosed space, air c onditioning or ventilation should be provided 
and fans as well as absorbing fans should be installed.
  (E) Adequate space should be provided for services to move fo od here and there.      
  (F) Hand washing facilities should be provided before and aft er meals and promotional 
advertisements and guidelines should be aﬃ  xed.      
  (G) Tables and chairs should be made of easy-to-clean and wat erproof material. 
     (4)  Ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatu res when adequate ventilation or air 
conditioning is provided in the premises, and that all air conditioning systems should be airtight. 
 
      (5)    For those working on the premises, 
 
              (A) If they are residing, the accommodation shoul d have adequate sanitary facilities and that 
place should be in a place separate from the food preparation, food production or raw material 
storage area.
  (B) A minimum of four square meters of space should be reserv ed for one person to sleep while 
being a resident employee.              
  (C) Separate toilet and bathroom facilities should be provide d for both men and women. 
 
 
     (6) The internal structure of the premises should be designed s o that customers can order food with 

<!-- page 41 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
41A
adequate space with physical distance when required. 
 
     (7)     Facilities should be provided for persons with disabilities and persons with special needs to enter 
in accordance with the prescribed standards. 
 
     (8)  There should be adequate parking facilities for custo mers.
       
 (9)    Automatic generators and water storage facilities should be ava ilable in the event of a power 
outage of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized in the event of an emergency po wer outage or water 
connection failure. 
 
     (10)  Internal drainage and eﬄ  uent discharge from the premises shall be directed to a ditch or suction 
pit, exceeding 15.25 m from the water source. 
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense under this by-law the Chairman; 
 
 (1)  Shall issue a license for the premises to the applicant i n accordance with the information contained 
in Article 6.  
 (2)   If the conditions Mentioned in Article 6 are not complie d with, the relevant applicaltion should be 
rejected with reason.
9.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be determined and 
declared annually by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.
 
  (2) It should be lawful for the council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license
 
 10.   If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31st of the year in which the license applies.
 
11.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall act in accord ance with the following conditions 
herein.   
    
 (1)  If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman from time to time under the instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or in any part of the territory or in any case where an epidemic 
has been declared under the regulations made under the Quaranti ne and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance, the premises shall be maintained subject to each such rule 
      (2)  Every person employed on the premises shall, in acco rdance with the regulations made under 
the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, act in accordance with all orders made by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic is 
declared. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a 
license
Validity period     
Testing fees     
Conditions applicable 
to a
license

<!-- page 42 -->

42A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
     (3)   Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the area of territory, service should not be provided 
to all persons who visit the premises seeking services unless it is in accordance with the relevant 
health instructions issued. 
 
    (4)  Health safety instructions imposed by the Director Gen eral of Health Services or the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman as per their instructions in  the event of an epidemic or risk 
of an epidemic in the area of  territory, should be implemented and the licensee should be satisﬁ ed 
of doing so. 
     (5)  All drains in the premises should be maintained in su ch a way that they can be easily drained, and 
waste water, sewage discharged from the premises should be diverted to the soakage pits, septic 
tank or central treatment unit according to the approved methods and necessary measures should 
be taken to prevent contamination. 
      (6)  All toilets and washrooms on the premises should be cleaned regularly with disinfectant and 
proper arrangements should be made to ensure that they are being done so. 
      (7)  The interior ﬂ oor of the premises should be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, and 
in case of any inconvenience during cleaning, sign boards should be kept in that place so that the 
customers can see them. 
      (8)  Drainage system should be free of retention of water  and cleaned twice daily with disinfectants.
     (9)  No drains, sewage pipes, or culverts on the premises should be routed to any public drain or 
outlying area.
  
   (10)  The premises should be maintained in such a way that t here is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   (11) Adequate facilities should be in place to regulate the temperature required for cooking and 
refrigeration, and records should be maintained to that eﬀ ect.
    (12)  All equipment and utensils used for food preparation should be maintained in accordance with the 
following requirements.  
     
   (A) All utensils and equipment used in food preparation shal l be made of non-absorbent materials 
that do not emit any toxic substances, ﬂ avors or odors and should be made of stainless materials. 
 
  (B) All equipment and tools should be of a nature as to be ea sily cleaned. 
 
   (C) Containers used for disposal of waste should be made of metal or non-corrosive materials 
with lids. 
 
  (D) All equipment, tool maintained must be of a condition sui table to be used. 
 

<!-- page 43 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
43A
 (13)   If food is to be distributed outside the premises durin g production, there must be a designated area 
for it.      
 (14)  Containers used for food distribution should be such tha t they can be distributed in a manner that 
does not harm the taste of the food.
 (15)  Premises should have separate refrigeration facilities f or storing goods used for food preparation 
and cooked food or similar.
        
 (16)   Premises should have water storage facilities and the r elevant containers should be stainless.
       
 (17)   Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation should b e thoroughly washed, cleaned and used.
 (18)  Water used in the premises should be kept in non-hazardous containers free from being polluted.       
 (19)  The ice used in the premises should be made from drinkin g water.
       
 (20)  Pipelines carrying water within the premises should be maintained so that they can be separately 
identiﬁ ed from any other pipeline.
 
 (21)  A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement should be in place to ensure that all cooked food on the premises 
is delivered to the lodgers without hazard, and that persons with speciﬁ c tasks should be employed 
to regulate it. 
 (22)  Fish and meat brought in for serving should be stored in  a separate refrigerator on the premises 
and should always be kept at a temperature of two degrees witho ut being contaminated Celsius 
until used. 
 (23)  Relevant prices for all food items for sale on-premises must be displayed under the sample or 
otherwise.     
 
 (24)  If an epidemic has been declared under the Quarantine an d Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
within the territory and regulations applicable to it or if there is a requirement that all persons in 
the territory should wear masks when entering the society due to the risk of any epidemic disease, 
no person without wearing a mask should be allowed to enter the premises for dealings.
 
 (25) All food items kept on the premises must be kept safe fro m contact with anyone outside the 
premises and the ordered food must be served after the food has been ordered. No food or leftovers 
so served should be kept for resale, and if there are any leftovers of the served food, they should 
be given to the person who ordered it to be taken. 
 (26)  Food for sale on the premises should not be kept in such  a way as to cause contamination, and all 
activities such as serving food, packing for transportation, et c. should be carried out in a proper 
manner using appropriate gloves. 
 (27)  By everyone involved in serving, consuming, or packing f ood on the premises; 
   (A) Should not touch food with your hands or ﬁ  ngers openly. 

<!-- page 44 -->

44A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 
  (B) Money should not be used while engaging in any form of se rvice. 
  (C) Utensils and gloves used for touching food should be in a  good condition to be used. 
 
  (D) A clean towel should be used to wipe both hands. 
 
  (E) The bottom of a used cup, plate or other container should  always be kept out of contact with 
any food. 
 
  (F) All utensils used for food serving should be kept clean a nd in separate containers. 
 
  (G) Employees should work to ensure that any of their work or  a container will not in any way 
cause food contamination or germs to be spread in a container. 
  (H) What is taken for food wrapping should not be a source of  food poisoning in any way. 
    
  (28)  If there is a rule which is imposed by the Chairman under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health to control any epidemic situation that has been decla red in the territory or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, all persons engaged preparati on, consumption, serving and 
packing of food should maintain the premises in accordance with  the orders of the Chairman 
issued under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Public Health Inspector , in addition to the provisions of this By-Laws
. 
 (29)  Facilities should be provided to pre-ordered and take -away food as much as possible, a separate 
window on the premises should be maintained for that purpose an d instead of placing menus on 
tables, they should be placed so that the recipes are displayed on a screen as much as possible.
 
 (30)  (A) Any work related to the production of food in the pr emises shall not be carried out in such 
a manner as to open it to a public road or public space, or to open air from such a public road or 
open space to the public, and food should be prepared in a spec ially enclosed space within the 
premises.   
  
  (B) Chimneys and suction fans shall be installed so that hot air and steam generated in the enclosed 
space for food production can ﬂ ow easily. 
 
  (C) Noise from any approved activity in food production shall  be in such a manner as not to 
disturb the public or consumers in any way. 
 
 (31)  Tables for serving and dine in on the premises should be  kept very clean and disinfected after each 
serving and use and the towels used should be kept clean.
 (32)  Surfaces in the premises that come in contact with custo mers should be cleaned regularly with 
disinfectant.       

<!-- page 45 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
45A
 (33)  All cooked food that can be easily contaminated on the p remises should be kept at a temperature 
not exceeding four degrees Celsius or not less than sixty degrees Celsius except in the following 
cases. Occasions where this is not applicable should be as follows.
 
  (A)  In cases where the food is not exposed or displayed for sale for a whole time of more than 
two hours or 
 
  (B)  When the preparation and presentation are to be made wit hin an short period of time. 
 
 (34)   All cooked food as pastries, patties, savories, pizza a nd similar food contain meat or ﬁ sh that is 
normally sold on the premises and consumed in the condition whi ch the food is sold should be 
kept in containers with covers. 
 (35)  Milk for use on the premises should be kept in a refrige rator at a temperature not exceeding seven 
degrees Celsius.    
   
 (36)  Suﬃ   cient hand washing facilities with sanitizers and hand drying  facilities should be provided 
in the processing area of the premises and in the dine in areas  and adequate lighting should be 
maintained in the premises.
 
 (37)  Pesticides kept in the premises should be kept in a seal ed container at a speciﬁ  c place in the 
premises.       
 (38)  The area for staﬀ   facilities in the premises should be spacious and with necessary sanitary facilities 
and toilets for both men and women should be maintained in accordance with sanitary standards.
 
 (39)  Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, it  should be maintained in such a way that it 
does not aﬀ ect the things used in the premises in any way and thus does not cause contamination 
of food.
 
 (40)  Cleaning activities in premises should be carried out on  a regular basis subject to the following: 
 
   (A) A speciﬁ  c task assignment should be maintained regarding activities such as the satisfactorily 
carrying out all parts of the institution and cleaning prioritizing the speciﬁ c areas described in this 
by-law and application of disinfectants 
 
  (B) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the w ork under (A) above is carried out 
precisely. 
 
  (C) Appropriate cleaning should be done to prevent dust durin g food preparation, serving, packing 
and consumption on the premises. 
 
  (D) All utensils used in the serving and consumption of food shall be maintained in such a manner 
that no portions of cooked food remain. 
 

<!-- page 46 -->

46A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 
  (E) The water used for cleaning, detergent disinfectants shou ld be washed so that the does not 
remain on the dishes in any way. 
 
  (F) The ceiling, walls, etc. of the premises shall be kept fr ee from any insects. 
      
 (41)   Pets such as dogs and cats should not be kept on the pr emises in any way.
        
(42)  Employees working on the premises should be trained in fo od hygiene and should be subjected to 
medical examinations within a speciﬁ ed period of time to ensure that they are in suitable health 
condition. Relevant records should also be maintained at the premises so that they can be inspected 
at any time. Also the health check-ups for them should be both clinical and epidemiological.  
 
 
 (43)  A health monitoring system should be set up for employee s employed on the premises and a 
process should be put in place to get the health advice they need.
 
 (44)  The waste generated on the premises should be maintained  in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the council and in accordance  with the written rules 
applicable to it.
 
  (45)  If the waste generated on the premises is managed by th e licensee himself, the Public Health 
Inspector in charge of the relevant area should be informed and  should act accordingly in 
accordance with the instructions given by him. 
 (46)  Everyone working on the premises should not engage in co oking packing, serving of food or 
work without necessarily cleaning after using the toilet and after touching dirt, and everyone who 
engage in those type of work should wear a clean and pocketfree apron.
 
 (47)  Those who work as cashiers on the premises should clean their hands frequently using sanitizers.
 (48)  Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities should be provided on the premises.
        
(49) The number of persons that can be provided with dine in fa cilities in the premises should be 
displayed on the premises.
  
(50)  In the event of an outbreak of any instruction in the com munity to use gloves or masks in the 
community, if any person entering the premises disposes of the mask or gloves they are wearing 
on the premises, the masks or gloves should be disposed to clos ed containers speciﬁ ed on the 
premises. Those waste should be disposed in accordance with the  waste management program 
and instructions implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes
. 
 (51) Anyone entering the premises for dine in should clean the ir hands from the area speciﬁ  cally 
designated for this purpose.        
(52)  Everyone who dine in and take-away food from the premises  should maintain proper distance.       

<!-- page 47 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
47A
  (53) Everyone who dine in on the premises should be as hygien ic as possible and always wear head 
coverings, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic clothing. 
  (54)  A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a vector or 
infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious d isease should not be employed on 
the premises.
 
  (55) Everyone dine in on the premises should not engage in ac tivities such as smoking, spitting, 
coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, which can cause food contamination. 
 (56)  Under no circumstances should anyone on the premises be allowed to dine in with any indication 
that they may be suﬀ ering from an infectious or transmissible disease. 
  (57)  If any person comes to the premises for dine in or an e mployee of the premises infected with a 
transmissible disease, infectious or skin disease, the licensee  should inform the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health and after informing all persons involved in the premises should act in accordance with 
the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or an authorized Public Health 
Inspector.
 
  (58)  Once the premises have been subjected to the quarantine  process, no one shall enter the premises 
for dine in until the issuance of a certiﬁ cate of completion of the quarantine period by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector and until the pr emises have been completely 
disinfected. 
     
 (59) The licensee must take every step to maintain the premise s in such a way that it does not cause 
food contamination during food consumption in any manner. 
 
   (60) Relevant instructions should be prominently displayed o n the premises and should act upon 
accordingly so that everyone who dine in on the premises can le arn about the health precautions 
that take place on the premises. 
 
 (61) The licensee must have provided all information about the  employees working on the premises to 
the Chairman. 
 
  12.  (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a premises relevant to this by-law in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into account the eﬃ  cacy of the 
conditions under this by-law. 
 
  (2) When the Chairman has graded the premises under this sect ion, the grade of the premises for 
the year relevant to the license and a certiﬁ cate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on the 
premises for the public to see. 
 
 13.   It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the necessary samples to inspect the premises 
Grading premises  
On-site inspection
and Obtaining 
samples

<!-- page 48 -->

48A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
 14.   When the Chairman has recommended that the licensee shou ld enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking 
into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, the licensee should enter 
into a statement of agreement with the Chairman and the Chairma n should send a copy to the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
 
  15.   When an order is in force under the Quarantine and Prev ention of Disease Ordinance in respect 
of any epidemic situation relating to the territory, the premises shall be maintained in accordance 
with all the provisions of that Order. 
 
 16.   It shall be lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman 
to enter the premises at any reasonable time to obtain the nece ssary samples and to inspect the 
premises in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
 
 17. (1)  In the event of a violation of the provisions of this by-law or in a manner contrary to the provisions 
of this by-law in a premises licensed under this by-law, the Ch airman should hand over a notice 
to the licensee to be compliance with the by-law notifying a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty 
days.
 
     (2) Upon submission of a notice under this section to the Licen see, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time on a reasonable request to grant an additional period to act in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period which is gran ted so should be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
 
 18.   The Chairman should cancel the relevant license in the e vent that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
 19.   It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of the by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be 
liable to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. Further, 
after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, and in the event of further breach of the law after a 
notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, breach of the law must 
be subject to an additional ﬁ ne referred to in sub-section 122 (2) of the old Pradeshiya Sabha Act 
No. 15 of 1987 for each day in which they continue the breach of the law. 
 20.   Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this by-law,  
  “Council” means the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
 
           “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of the  Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at 
present or the persons who perform the duties of that position, 
 
       "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the  Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area. 
 
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty
Clariﬁ cation

<!-- page 49 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
49A
       “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the o ﬃ  ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health working in the territory of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 
            "Licensee" means an institution or a person who has obtained a license under this by-law, 
 
           "Authorized Oﬃ  cer" means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that 
time. 
 
           "Contamination" refers to the entry or occurrence of  any contamination substance in a food 
substance, 
 
          "Disinfectants" reduce the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals or physical 
means that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food. 
 
           "Food hygiene" refers to all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all times in the food chain. 
 
          A "hazard" is a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects. 
 
          "Food safety" also means the responsibility of the consumer to prepare, process, sell, store, transport, 
and not cause any harm to the consumer during or after dine in. 
 
         "Food" refers to the products used to prepare food and food bei ng prepared for sale in a institution 
maintained for human consumption, 
 
         "Reasonable time" refers to any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work, 
 
         "Basic Law" refers to the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
21.  If there variarions between the Sinhala, English and Tamil  texts in this by-law, then the Sinhala 
twxt will prevail.      
 
 First Schedule
Application for Trade License for the year ...................
  
01. Name of the applicant: - 
02. Personal Address: - 
03. National Identity Card Number: - 
04. Telephone Number: - 
05. Nature of the business: - 
06. Start year: - 
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: - 
09. Assessment Number: - 
10. If the business has obtained name registration, its reference number: - 
Variation between   
Texts                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      

<!-- page 50 -->

50A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
11. Information of the manager or agent of the place of business, 
I. Name and personal address 
II. National Identity Card Number 
III. Phone Number   Mobile: -       `    Fixed: - 
 I certify that the above information is true and correct. 
I request that a business license to be issued to me for the year ................ for the place where the industry, 
business mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules and regulations on this regard.
 
Date:-               ……………………………….        
Signature of the applicant 
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector, 
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations 
for the issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
 
Date:-         .                         
……………………………….        
               Secretary 
 
Secretary, 
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license. 
Date :-                 
……………………………….        
           Revenue Inspector  
 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
 I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation the 
application mentioned on the back. 
Date:-            ……………………………….        
                Secretary 
 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
 Date :           ......................................         
          Public Health Inspector  
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason).
 
Date:-          ......................................          
                             Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health

<!-- page 51 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
51A
 BYLAW RELATING TO MARKERTS 
1.   This By-Law is enacted to regulate and monitor the public or private markets maintained   
 within the  authority area of  Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha. 
2.   This By Law is cited as the By Laws for markets of  Kaluta ra Pradeshiya Sabah. 
  
 3.   The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate t hese by- laws by virtue of Section  126(XII)
       of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub- Section 122 of the said Act.
 
 4.   This by-law refers to a public or private market that is maintained for purchase or sale of goods  
 or  materials for the public on behalf of  Kaluthara Pradeshiy a Sabha or any other party located  
 within the authority area of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha (he reinafter referred to  as authority  
 area) for the purpose. 
        
 5.   All public markets and private markets located within the  authority area shall be maintained 
 under         
 the management of a market caretaker (hereinafter referred to as the premises at someplaces). 
  
 6.   All public markets and private markets established and ma intained within the authority area  
 shall be constructed to meet the following requirments.
      (1)  Permanent buildings pertaining to the premises shall  be constructions constructed under the  
 Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or in accordanc e with the provisions of  
 the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance.
 
      (2)  Construction on the premises shall be well made of p ermanent structure and maintained in good 
condition. 
     (3)   There shall be platforms for the sale of goods and materi als for each permanent construction on 
the premises, and the front of the platforms shall be adequatel y spaced so that buyers can move 
around. 
 
    (4) Under the permanent construction of the premises, each stall shall be at least two square meterswide. 
 
   (5) All buildings related to the premises shall be construct ed with access facilities for persons with 
disabilities and special needs. 
 
    (6) All construction on the premises shall be securely cons tructed, and all construction materials on 
the premises shall be free from contaminants and materials that are not suitable for food or stock, 
as well as those that do not emit toxic gases. 
 
   (7) The internal layout of the buildings on the premises shall be arranged in such a way that they can 
be separated, divided and positioned to prevent cross-pollution in the premises. 
 
Short Title
That the market
 should be under the 
management of a 
caretaker
Requirements for 
public and 
private markert

<!-- page 52 -->

52A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
   (8) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed  so that the hygienic operations of the 
process from bringing the goods to the premises to the sale can be carried out properly. 
 
   (9) There should proper access to the premises for the vehic les carrying goods to the premises and the 
food items in the premises shall not be polluted in any way due to the motor vehicles entering the 
premises. 
  
  (10) There should be adequate parking facilities for vehicles  carrying goods and customers inside the 
premises. 
 
   (11) The ﬂ  oor should be prepared in a manner that water does not remain in the premises and arranged 
in a manner that all the drains and rainwater in the premises ﬂ ow easily. 
 
  (12) Sewage pits for the discharge of wastewater within the p remises shall be constructed in accordance 
with the approved design and shall be located at a distance of at least 15.25 m from a water source 
and shall not be exposed to the outside. 
 
  (13) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the pre mises and maintained separately for men 
and women. The provisions of the By-Laws relating to Public lat rine in respect of public latrine 
maintained within the premises shall apply with the required minor changes. 
 
  (14) Adequate space should be provided within the premises to  allow the sale and purchase of goods 
while maintaining adequate social distance, and the internal st ructure should be maintained to 
facilitate the movement of goods within the premises without causing inconvenience to customers. 
 
   (15)  Every platform set up for the sale of goods should have a nonslip, waterproof, appropriate surface 
and be easy to clean with antiseptic. 
   (16)  The premises should be zoned according to what is for sale, and no goods other than speciﬁ ed in 
the particular zone shall not be sold. 
 
   (17)  No item or items for sale should be kept in direct con tact with the ground and should always be 
placed on a rack with a suﬃ  cient height above the ﬂ oor for sale. 
 
   (18)  It should be the duty of the caretaker of the market t o make room for the sale so that there is 
enough space for the customers to move around in the premises to buy the goods. 
 
   (19) Equipments used for weighing and measuring in the premi ses should be with proper standard  
   (20)  Animals such as dogs and cats should not be allowed to  gather or stay in the premises. 
 
 7.   Separate stalls shall be set up in the area reserved for the sale of ﬁ sh in the premises and the 
following should be completed in this regard. 
   (1)   Platforms for the sale of ﬁ  sh should be constructed with solid material and drains should  also be 
Sale of ﬁ sh in the 
premises

<!-- page 53 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
53A
constructed in a manner that the water can ﬂ ow easily. 
 
  (2)     All equipment in the ﬁ sh storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germ and should not 
emit contaminants or toxic gases into the ﬁ sh. 
 
    (3)   Light bulbs and other ﬁ xtures hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale should be in a safe condition and 
covered  
   (4)   The ﬁ  sh market shall be kept clean and disinfected and before starting any sale the place shall be 
cleaned with anti-septic.  
   (5)   The parts that contact with the ﬁ  sh kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should not 
be contaminated in any way. 
 
   (6)   Water from the cleaning and use of ﬁ  sh stalls should be diverted to a septic tank or suction pit 
under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other drains in the area. 
 
   (7)  The eﬄ  uent collected during the sale of ﬁ sh should be temporarily collected in sealed containers 
so that it does not mix with other eﬄ  uents in the premises and disposed of in accordance with the 
waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or as per the instructions of the 
Public Health Inspector. 
   (8)   There should be refrigerators to store extra quantitie s of ﬁ sh other than kept for sale. 
 
   (9)    If the ﬁ sh is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be available and the relevant refrigerators 
should be maintained under continuous electricity supply . 
   (10)  Fish taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not re-refrigerated and 
sold.  
    
 (11)  Packaging material should not be used in any way in prin ting paper or in direct contact with ﬁ sh.
 
   (12)  Fish shall not be stored in sales stall, the equipment  non-related ﬁ sh sale shall not be kept in the 
stall.
  
   (13)  All ﬁ  sh sellers shall wear clean clothes.
   
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written la w for the operation of a premises for the 
sale of ﬁ sh, all such licenses must have been obtained by the ﬁ sh sellers in the premises, none of 
those provisions shall not undermine these provisions. 
 8.   If a zone is created for the sale of meat in the premises , speciﬁ c stalls shall be set up in this regard 
and the following requirement shall be completed,
   (1)   Relevant stalls shall be constructed in such a manner as to be considered as a speciﬁ c premises 
for the purpose, and all relevant stalls shall be maintained under a license in accordance with the 
 
Sale of meat 
in the premises

<!-- page 54 -->

54A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
written rules relating to the maintenance of the premises for the sale of meat 
   (2)    All equipment in the meat storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germs and should 
not emit pollutants or toxic gases into the meat  
   (3)  Light bulbs and other ﬁ  xtures hanging above the meat for sale should be in a safe con dition and 
covered  
   (4)  The meat shall be kept clean and disinfected and before  starting any sale the place shall be 
cleaned with anti-septic. 
   (5)  The parts that contact with the meat kept for sale shou ld not leak any liquid or gas and should not 
be contaminated in any way. 
  (6)  Water from the cleaning and use of meat stalls should be  diverted to a septic tank or suction pit 
under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other drains in the area. 
 
 
  (7)  The eﬄ   uent collected during the sale of meat should be temporarily collected in sealed containers 
so that it does not mix with other eﬄ  uents in the premises and disposed of in accordance with the 
waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or as per the instructions of the 
Public Health Inspector. 
 
   (8)  There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities  of meat other than kept for sale.  
   (9)  If the meat is stored on site, adequate refrigerators s hould be available and the relevant refrigerators 
should be maintained under continuous electricity supply. 
  (10)  The meat taken out of the refrigerator should be kept a t natural temperature and not re-refrigerated 
and sold.  
   (11)  Packaging material should not be used in any way in pr inting paper or in direct contact with the 
meat. 
   (12) The meat shall not be stored in the sales stall, the eq uipment non-related meat sale shall not be 
kept in the stall.  
   (13) All meat sellers shall wear clean clothes. 
 
 
  (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written l aw for the operation of premises for the sale 
of meat. All such licenses must have been obtained by the meat sellers in the premises; none of 
those provisions shall not undermine these provisions. 
  9.   Platforms for selling fruits and vegetables in the premi ses should be at least 45 cm above ground 
level and in the absence of such platforms, they should be plac ed on a board of suﬃ  cient height 
and sold 
 10.   Those who engaged in sales in the premises shall use the  standardized weighing and measuring 
equipment
  
 11.  Vegetables and fruits kept for sale should never be kept in mix with rotten vegetables and fruits 
and should always be disposed only in the containers for the di sposal of rotten vegetables and 
fruits.
 
12.   Every trader should make sure that rotten vegetables or f ruits that have not been ready at any time 
for the consumption 
General Conditions

<!-- page 55 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
55A
 
13.   Only drinking water shall be used for washing the vegetab les and fruits in the premises and the 
washing shall be done only in a designated place. 
14.   Garbage accumulated due to sales should be disposed only in the containers kept for disposal at 
the premises or at the designated place at the end of the sales.
 
15.   No cooking or making ﬁ  re or any other preparation of food shall be done by anyone at  the 
premises. 
 
16.  When selling cooked food at the  premises;   
 (1)  Food shall not be sold in a place where there is a risk o f food contamination. 
   (2)  Always the food items shall be sold from the sealed or airtight containers. 
   (3)  Food items kept in any open space shall not be sold.   
 (4) Cooked food shall not be taken here and there around the p remises and sold. 
   (5)  Everyone who sells food item shall use gloves and touch  the food only with the help of a   
 handle to hold food.
17.   No person shall drink alcohol or make arrangements to dri nk alcohol or smoke in any way at the 
premises 
 
18.   No person in the premises should utter ﬁ  lthy words or behave in an obscene manner  
19.   Anyone who suﬀ  ers from any infectious disease, or who is suspected of having  contracted  
disease, or who has been infected with a wound, skin infection,  ulcer, or diarrhea, or who has 
been cared for, should not trade on the premises. 
 
 
20.   The loudspeakers shall not be used in the premises to adv ertise or present musical programs 
 
21.   No person in the premises shall beg or hold performances 
22.  Whatever the above provisions of this by-law contain, ther e are reasonable grounds to suspect 
that in any area or authority area in Sri Lanka, when there is a provision for the spread of an 
epidemic under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases Ordina nce and the regulations made 
under it, In such cases, it should be lawful for the Chairman t o prescribe that all or some of the 
following procedures shall be followed by the users of the premises as instructed by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
 
 
  (1)  That water should be supplied to wash the hands of trade rs and consumers at various places in         
the premises  
   (2) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of trade rs and consumers at various places in  the 
premises  
   (3)    That public latrines in the premises should be tempor arily closed. 
Maintaining 
the public Marke-
tin 
in an epidemic 
Sisituation

<!-- page 56 -->

56A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
   (4)  That there should be several entrances and exits to the  premises.  
  (5) That the relevant minimum distance between traders and co nsumers should be maintained and         
the minimum distance to be maintain between each other. 
   (6)  That the premises should be well ventilated    
 (7)  That the number of people entered to the premises at a ti me by the entrances should be limited  
   (8)  That respiratory etiquette should be maintained on the premises and that anyone suspected of 
having a fever or respiratory illness or such condition should be prohibited from entering the 
premises  
   (9)  Traders and users of the premises are required to wear face masks and traders are required to wear 
face masks and gloves  
   (10) That conduct and other necessary instruction should be displayed at the premises and maintained 
on a regular basis  
   (11) That when dealing with money in the premises, a speciﬁ c person shall be deployed at each stall to 
perform that task and he or she shall regularly sterilize and clean their hands  
   (12) That food should not be consumed by anyone in any way i n the premises  
   (13) That the premises should be divided into sections and o perated for a limited trade. 
   (14) That the premises were not maintained for commercial pu rposes for a period of time 
23.   All persons who use the premises shall act in accordance with the provisions made by the 
Chairman under the above clause      
24.    Every public market owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha and pr ivate market should have a boundary 
schedule to the land area  
25.    When it is a public market belonging to the Pradeshiya S abha    
 (1)   The Chairman shall ensure that all steps taken to mainta in the provisions of this By-Laws are   
properly implemented  
   (2)  As per the decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha, the public  market of the Sabha can be entrusted to 
the second parties identiﬁ ed under the proper tender procedure 
   (3) When the public market is maintained by the parties cont racted on behalf of the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
it shall be supervised by an oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to specify whether it shall be  
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law 
26. (1) When the public market is maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the fees to be charged for trade in 
the premises should be as determined by the Sabha 
 
  (2) All matters related to the fees prescribed under sub-clau se (1) above and the reservation of 
space for public market vendors shall be decided by the sabha   taking into consideration the 
recommendations of a committee appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 
27.   All private operating maintained within the authority are a shall not be maintained except under a 
license to be obtained from the Chairman. 
 
28.   All private markets operating within the authority shall not be issue a license unless they comply 
with the provisions of this By-Law  
    
The terms 
must becomplied
 Determination of
 fees
License for Private
 Market

<!-- page 57 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
57A
29.   All persons applying for a license under Article 26 shall  apply to the Chairman in accordance 
with an application under the Schedule to this By-Law  
 
30.   The fees to be charged in respect of requests received fr om the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be legally 
determined by the sabha through a prior proposal
  
31.   If a license issued under section 26 is not previously re voked in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until 31st December of the year in which the license issued  
32. (1) (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be determined and declared 
by the Sabha, subject to the provisions of the Basic Law 
       (2)  It should be lawful for the Sabha to determine and charge an inspection fee for a site inspection 
in connection with the issuance of a license
  
33.   It shall be lawful for an oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the premises and obta in the 
necessary items to inspect the premises in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law   
 
 34. (1)  In the event of a breach or contradiction of the provisions of this by-law, the Chairman shall give 
notice to the licensee giving a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty days for compliance with the 
by-law   
    
  (2)    Upon submission of a notice under this section to the licensee, the Chairman may grant additional 
time upon request, on reasonable grounds, to grant further time  to act in accordance with the 
terms of the relevant notice. The period so granted shall be su bjected to a maximum period of 
fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
 
35.   The Chairman shall revoke the relevant license in the eve nt that the licensee fails to comply with 
the notice within the period of time or additional period granted under section 33 above 
 
36.  It is an oﬀ  ense to act in violation of any provision of this by-law or to  operate a private market 
without obtaining a license under this by-law and after being c onvicted by a magistrate court 
under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of  1987 shall be subjected to a 
Penalty. 
 
37   Unless the context required an interpretation of the terms  of this by-law, 
  "Sabha" means  Kaluthara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
  "Chairman" refers to the person who holds the post of Chairma n of the Kaluthara Pradeshiya 
Sabha at present or the person who performs the function of that position. 
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” Any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
  "Pollution" means food or food pollutants entry or occurrence . 
  "Hygiene" refers to all the conditions and practices required  to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages of a food chain 
 License fee
Violation of the 
terms of the license
Authority
for inspection
Penalty
Applyin for
 Licenes

<!-- page 58 -->

58A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
  38.       If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts in this by-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail 
 
    Schedule  
Application for Trade License for the year. .......................... 
01. Name of the applicant: - 
02. Personal Address: - 
03. National Identity Card Number: - 
04. Telephone Number: - 
05. Address of the place where the fair is held: - 
06. Start year: - 
07. Address of the place of business: -  
08. Grama Niladhari Division: - 
09. Assessment Number: - 
 
I do herby certify that the above information is true and correct. 
 
I kindly request you that please issue me trade license for the  year ............................ for the industry and 
place of trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules in this regard. 
 
Date:-……………………….               ………………………….. 
          Signature of the applicant  
 
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
 
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
applicant mentioned on the back page.
 
Date:-...............................                                                                                            ................................. 
             Secretary 
 
 Secretary,
I recommend ./ Not recommend granting the license 
Date :- …………………………….              
                                      …………………………….            
                  Revenue Inspector 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request your observations and recommendations for the is suance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back page. 
 Date:-...............................                                                    .................................  
              Secretary 
 Inconsistencies 
between 
texts

<!-- page 59 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
59A
 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Eligible in accordance with by-laws and other rules and regulations. I do hereby recommend the issuance 
of licenses. 
 
Date :-                                                                        .................................           
           Public Health Inspector 
 
Secretary, 
I recommend / I do not recommend the issuance a license for the relevant place as per the above application.  
(If not recommended, state the reason). 
 
 
Date :-                                           .................................                
                      Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
BY LAWS RELATING TO PUBLIC LATRINES OF 
PRADESHIYA SABHA
1.  The objective of the enforcement of this by law is to regul ate the use and maintenance of Public 
Latrine System in this Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabah authority area. 
   
2.  01.This By Law is cited as the By Law for regulating the us e and maintenance of Public Latrines 
within the authority area of Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabah 
 
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 
126(IX), of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
4.  It shall be the responsibility of the Sabaha to maintain Pu blic Latrine facilities in the places where 
general public gather, within the authority area of Kalutara  Pradeshiya Sabah (hereinafter refers 
as authority area).  
   
5.  All Public Latrine facilities within authority area of Prad eshiya Sabah shall be maintained with 
clean and tidy adequately under the sanitary requirement and shall be well maintained. 
   
6.  Separate facilities for men, women and for persons with dis abilities should be maintained in each 
public Latrine maintained by the Sabha.  
   
7.  All public Latrines within the authority area of Pradeshiya  Sabah shall be maintained in accordance 
with the conditions prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to be maintained for the beneﬁ t 
of the public health 
   
8.  Adequate water supply should be maintained permanently for all public Latrines and water 
Short Title
The sabah should 
maintain public 
latrine Sacilities

<!-- page 60 -->

60A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
storage facilities shall also be provided for this purpose.  
   
9.  All public Latrines shall be easily accessible to both men and women as well as persons with 
disabilities.  
   
10.  Each Latrine should have facilities such as hand washing w ith proper, permanent water connection 
in a designated area with a basin made of stainless steel and should always have facilities with the 
adequate sanitary wipers,  detergent and hand drying facilities also be provided. 
   
11.  Each public Latrine should have separate cloth racks in ea ch compartment and should also be 
provided with space to keep the belongings 
   
12.  Adequate number of foot operated dust bins should be kept in each compartment of every public 
Latrine for the public use.   
   
13.  If there are any masks or gloves worn by the users of the public Latrine, the masks or gloves should 
be disposed in to the foot operated dust bins. This speciﬁ cally stated on the dust bins. 
   
14  The surface of all the public Latrine should be made of cem ent or porcelain so that the water does 
not retain and slip easily and the ﬂ oor should be prepared so that water can drain easily.  
   
15   (01)  Instructions on speciﬁ  c sanitary measures to be followed by the public Latrine users  for 
protection of public health to be displayed in the public Latrine premises for easy understanding.  
   (02)  All persons who use public Latrines shall act in accor dance with the relevant 
instructions.  
   
16.  A latrine shall always be cleaned and be kept under sanita ry condition and germicide should 
be used when cleaning and shall be well maintained and staﬀ   should be deployed to ensure the 
cleanliness.     
    
17.  Adequate lighting should be provided in all public Latrine s. 
    
18.  If the Sabah decides to charge a fee for the services prov ided in public Latrines within the 
authority area, a notice shall be prepared and aﬃ  xed in all three languages clearly with regard to 
the available facilities and the fees charged.  
    
19.  When using public Latrines, the accumulated waste should b e disposed in accordance with the 
speciﬁ c procedure and the disposal of masks and gloves used should b e considered as medical 
waste and disposed accordingly. 
    
20.  The utensils used in public Latrines should be cleaned wit h water after every use and then keep 
them ready for the easy use of others.
     
21.  If a public Latrine is maintained by a second party on beh alf of the Shaba, the provisions of this 
by-law shall applicable to all public Latrine so maintained by the second party. The compliance 
Charge a fee
Obtaining the 
assistance of a
 second party

<!-- page 61 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
61A
of provisions of this by-law shall be monitored regularly by th e assigned employees, appointed 
for this purpose.
    
22.  In addition to the provisions of this By-Law, the users of  public Latrine shall also abide by 
provisions of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, when prescribed or applied 
to any epidemic situation  
    
23.  It shall be lawful to restrict the use of any public Latri ne within the authority are for the beneﬁ t of 
public health for a speciﬁ ed period of time, to restrict its use, or to suspend it tempo rarily by the 
Chairman as prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.   
    
24.  Taking into the consideration of the factors that may caus e or spread of any epidemic disease 
within the authority area declared by the Quarantine and Preven tion of Diseases Ordinance, the 
Chairman shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the use of public Latrine is accordance with 
the instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health prior to the use Latrine by the public.  
    
25.  Prior to the use of public Latrine in connection with the steps under section 23 above, the 
Chairman shall display the instructions in a manner that is easily visible to the user of the public 
Latrine in accordance with instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.   
    
26.  All public Latrines should be cleaned with antiseptic acco rding to a speciﬁ c daily schedule in a 
manner that no odor is emitted, while such cleaning activities shall be recorded in a report kept in 
the premises. The Chairman shall implement an appropriate program to regulate the continuity of 
the clean-up operations.  
   
27.  No matter whatever stated in the above clauses of this by- law, there shall not be any impediment 
by any provision of this by-law to the implementation of the pr ovisions of the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any regulation obtained thereon.  
      
28.  If a Public Latrine is maintained on behalf of the Council  under the administration of a second 
party, the provisions of this by-law shall apply to all public Latrines so maintained and shall 
always be deemed to have been applicable.  
 
29.  If a fee is charged for the use of a public Latrine, a rec eipt shall be issued to the user for the 
speciﬁ c amount so charged. 
    
30.   It is an oﬀ  ense for any person who act in violation of a provision of thi s by-law and after being 
convicted by an authorized court, the person shall be liable to a penalty under sub-section 122 (2) 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.  
    
31.  For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the context other wise requires,
  “Sabah” means the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha
  “Chairman” means Chairman of the Kaluthara. Pradeshiya Sabha or the person executes the 
duties of the chairman. 
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person holding the post of the Medic al Oﬃ  cer of Health 
in the relevant area of the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
32.  If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil and Eng lish texts in this by-law, the Sinhala 
texts will prevail. Discrepancy among the medium.
 
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Discrepancy 
among the medium
Use of public 
Latrines during 
an epidemic
 situation

<!-- page 62 -->

62A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
BY-LAW ON CONTROLLING THE DISPOSAL OF WASTE HAZARDOUS TO PUBLIC HEALTH
  
01.  This by- law is enacted to recommend disposal strategies t o prevent the disposal of health safety 
equipment used by the Public to the environment being hazardous  to public health in an epidemic 
situation within the authority area of the Kalutara.Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 
02.  This by-law is cited as the by-law to control the disposal  of waste hazardous to the public health of 
the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 
03.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate th ese by- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act. 
 
04.  In the event of the use of masks, gloves or any other prot ective wear (hereinafter referred to as 
equipment in some places) by the people of the authority area i n accordance with the terms and 
conditions laid down by the Chairman under the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
control an epidemic situation that has been declared throughout  Sri Lanka or in any part of the 
country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared under 
the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any of t he regulations made under it, the 
disposal of such items after use shall be subject to the provisions herein. 
 
05.  All public or private premises shall have separate closed garbage containers for the disposal of 
gloves, masks or any other protective wear used by the public f or health safety purposes or at any 
instance as referred to in Section 4 above relating to the authority area. 
 
06.  No gloves, masks and other such items shall be disposed by  any person other than a speciﬁ  cally 
separated garbage container mentioned under Section 5 above, subject to the circumstances referred 
to in under Section 4 of this by-law within the authority area. 
 
07.  It is the responsibility and duty of the authority of the premises to maintain adequate garbage disposal 
containers for the disposal of gloves, masks and other such items used in all public premises in the 
event of a situation referred to in under Section 4 of this by-law. 
 
08.  No person shall mix or dispose any waste other than the wa ste speciﬁ ed under this by-law to a 
garbage container maintained for the purpose of this by-law. 
 
09.  Disposal or dumping of waste collected under this by-law s hall be carried out only in accordance 
with the procedure recommended by the Chairman on the instructi ons of the Medical Oﬃ   cer 
of Health, and the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be 
publicized within the authority area. 
 
10.  It is an oﬀ  ense for any person to act in violation of the provisions unde r Sections 6 and 8 of this 
by-law, and after being convicted by the Magistrate's Court, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-
Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 of the said Ordinance. 
 
11.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  “Council” means the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or perform the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medi cal Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the post o f Public Health Inspector attached to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of 
Short title.
Applicability.
That speciﬁ c 
garbage bins shall 
be maintained.
Responsibility 
of the public 
authority.
Prevention of 
mixing.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nition.

<!-- page 63 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
63A
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Authority Area" means the Kalutara  Pradeshiya Sabha area, 
12.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
BY-LAW OF REGULATING THE CONDUCT OF SHOWS ON THE ROADS AND STRE ETS OF 
THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
01.  This by-law is enacted to control, regulate and to make ar rangements for consequent matters to the 
conduct of shows by gathering people in any road, street and related reserve in the area of authority 
of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
02.  This by-law is known as the by-law of regulating the condu ct of shows on the roads and streets of 
the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha
03.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate th ese by- laws by virtue of Section  
126(VII)   of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
  
04.  No person shall conduct a show or engage in any such activ ity in such a way as to gather the public 
except with a prior written permission of the Chairman in any r oad, street and related reserve in 
the area of authority of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha (herein  after referred to as the authority 
area). 
   
05.  Any person wishing to conduct a show or engage in any acti vity in such a way as to gather the public 
on a particular road, street, or related reserve in the authority area within a speciﬁ ed period of time, 
shall apply for the permission in advance by submitting an application to the Chairman. 
   
06.  When someone has made a request to gather people to conduc t a show on a road, street or related 
reserve, or gather people to engage in any kind of such activit y, the Chairman shall not grant 
permission to any person to do so without subjecting himself/he rself to the recommendations and 
conditions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health if there is a recommendation and conditions to which 
such gathering is appropriate for the beneﬁ t of the prevailing public health in the area.  
   
07.  Whenever any epidemic situation has been declared by the Q uarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the regulations made under it in relation to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka 
or whenever an epidemic is declared in the authority area no pe rson shall engage in activities that 
gather the public on a road, street or related reserve in the authority area. 
   
08.  This by-law stipulates that the applicant shall maintain t he relevant show subject to the following 
conditions:
 (1) That during the performance of the show, the relevant acti vities will be carried out in accordance 
with the health care strategies recommended to be maintained fo r the beneﬁ t of the public health 
of the area during the entire period,
 (2) That the show shall always be held only for random gatheri ngs and that the show shall not be 
advertised in advance,
 (3) That no fees shall be charged for the purpose of the show,
 (4) That at no time engage in the show that maintains a positi on that minimizes the visibility of the 
show,
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Short name.
Obtaining 
permission.
Granting 
permission by the 
Chairman.
Conditions

<!-- page 64 -->

64A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (5) That the performer shall keep adequate sealed garbage bins  at the venue, and if there is anything 
disposed by the people gathered they should be disposed to the garbage bins, and shall conduct the 
show by encouraging the audience to do so.  
 (6) That the garbage collected in garbage bins at the venue du ring the show will be disposed of by the 
performer at the end of the show in accordance with the active waste management program in the 
area.
 (7) That if loudspeakers or other visual display boards are to  be set up at the venue, prior approval shall 
be obtained in accordance with the applicable written law and i t shall be maintained so that it can 
be easily seen in more directions.
 (8) That the show will be held in such a manner that it will n ot cause any hindrance to traﬃ   c or 
pedestrian traﬃ  c.
 (9) That if there are any public health rules to be followed b y the gathering under the permission given 
to hold the show or perform the show, the relevant show will be  held or the show will be held in 
satisfaction that all those rules will be fulﬁ lled in that manner. 
   
9.  When the Chairman permits to hold a show on a road, street or related reserve or any other such 
event the relevant permission under section 5 of this by-law shall be granted after been satisﬁ ed that 
it shall not disrupt with the traﬃ  c or public using the road, street or related reserve.   
 
10.  In cases where a speciﬁ  c public place has been reserved by the Council for a gathering of the people 
or for purpose of a show, the Chairman shall not grant permissi on for any show on a road or in a 
related reserve except at that place. 
   
11.  The fees to be charged for the issuance of a permit under this by-law shall be a fee decided and 
published by the Council by a resolution of motion from time to time. 
   
12.  Acting under a permit obtained from the Chairman under thi s by-law shall be subject to the 
provisions of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under 
it. 
   
13.  It is lawful for the Chairman to cancel a permit issued un der this by-law at any time when the 
Chairman is satisﬁ ed that there are factors causing an epidemic in the authority are, and upon such 
cancellation the amount charged for a permit shall be released to the applicant.   
 
14.  It is an oﬀ  ense to hold a show in a road, street in the authority area without a permit to be obtained 
under this by-law or to act in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by 
a Magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable to a penalty under s ub-section 122 (4) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.   
   
15.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law;
  The "Council" means the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  The "Chairman" means the current Chairman of the Kalutara Pra deshiya Sabha or the person 
performs the duties of that position, 
  and 
  The "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of that position related to the 
division of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the relevant area. 
   
16.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
That Traﬃ  c 
should not be 
disrupted.
Fees.
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty
Deﬁ nition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 65 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
65A
BY-LAW REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTION PLACES
01.  This by-law is enacted to regulate, monitor, inspect and c ontrol food production places within the 
authority area of the Kalutara. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
02.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law Regarding Food Producti on Places of the Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
   
03.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate th ese by- laws by virtue of Section 122 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the sub - section 126(ix) of the said Act.  
  
04.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Kalutara Pradeshi ya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a place where food is produced commercially for human consumption 
(hereinafter referred to as the premises in some places) except  under a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this by-law. 
   
05.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall  apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law. 
   
06.  Submission of an application under the above section can b e made by fulﬁ lling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered pos t, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
07.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 197 8 or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance and;
  (A) The material used in all constructions shall not emit tox ic substances and shall not emit toxic 
gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where  organisms cannot be easily 
retained.
  (B) The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space  to enable the service to be performed 
without interruption. 
  (C) Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent ent ry of contamination substances into 
food raw material and cooked food.
  (D) Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the  internal foods of the premises.
   (E) Things disposed under the internal processing activities  of the premises shall be arranged with 
references that will not ﬂ ow back in any way. 
   
 (2)  In the food processing area of the premises, 
  (A) Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and n on-absorbent materials.
  (B) All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned deterge nts and disinfectants. 
  (C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation  and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
  (D) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall b e shielded with covers prevent 
entering insects. 
  (E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ  ow of air from outside and to ﬂ ow exhaust air 
out. 
   
 (3) Ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatu res when adequate ventilation is provided 
Short title.
Legal power.
That a license 
shall be obtained.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 66 -->

66A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
in the premises or air conditioned, and all air conditioning systems shall be designed to prevent air 
from returning. 
    
 (4)    For the employees on the premises; 
  (A)  If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate  sanitary facilities for the accommodation, 
and it shall be in a place separate from the food preparation, food production or ingredients 
storage area. 
  (B) Rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square mete rs of space is available for each 
employee to sleep. 
  (C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provide d for both females and males. 
   
 (5) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed s o that customers can order food with 
adequate space with physical distancing when required. 
   
 (6) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers. 
   
 (7) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ   cient capacity shall be available to be 
utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
 
   
 (8) Internal drains and waste discharged from the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or a soakage 
pit and if that soakage pit or septic tank is in a source of wa ter, it shall be at a distance more than 
15. 25 meters away. 
   
08.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a l icense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not 
complied with. 
   
09.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this  by-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections related 
to the issuance of a license.  
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ  rst of the year in which the license 
applies. 
   
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared  throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordi nance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
Inspection fees.
Validity period.
Conditions 
relevant to a 
license.

<!-- page 67 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
67A
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all terms made by the Chairman 
on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic is declared applicable 
under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons who come 
to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they visit the premises in 
accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety instructions 
prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Me dical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises in order to protect 
from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the  eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit a ccording to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with disinfectant 
and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are being so. 
   
 (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, and if 
it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boar ds mentioning on that regard shall 
be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (8) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with disinfectants 
twice daily. 
   
 (9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the road 
or outside area. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there  is no external odor due to the discharge   
             of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with the 
following requirements. 
   
  (A)  All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shal l be made of a non-absorbent material 
that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be made of stainless material.
  (B) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as t o be easily cleaned.
  (C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials and shall 
have lids.
  (D) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitab le condition to be used. 
   
 (13) If food is to be distributed outside the premises during production, there shall be a speciﬁ  c 
designated place for it.
 
   

<!-- page 68 -->

68A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (14) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not harm 
the taste of the food. 
   
 (15) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 
   
 (16) Premises shall have water storage facilities and the rele vant containers shall be stainless. 
   
 (17) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
   
 (18) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from 
contamination. 
   
 (19) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (20) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any other 
pipeline. 
   
 (21) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on the 
premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons shall be 
employed to regulate it. 
   
 (22) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises and shall 
always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used without contamination. 
   
 (23) If an order has been issued that all persons should wear masks when socializing when an 
epidemic situation has been declared in the authority area unde r the Quarantine and Prevention 
of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it or due to the risk of an epidemic in the 
authority area, any person not wearing a face mask shall not be allowed to enter the premises for 
transactions. 
   
 (24) Everyone involved in food production shall use hats when involved in production 
activities. 
   
 (25) Food for sale on the premises shall not be kept in such a  way as to cause contamination, and all 
activities such as serving food, assembling for takeaway, itc., shall be carried out under a speciﬁ c 
procedure using appropriate gloves. 
   
 (26) All persons involved in serving, usage or assembling food  on the premises;
  (A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or ﬁ ngers 
  (B) Under no circumstances shall money be used while working.
  (C) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a fav orable  use for food.
  (D)  A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
  (E)  The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall  always be kept out of contact with 
any food. 
  (F) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept thorough ly clean and in separate containers.

<!-- page 69 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
69A
 (G) Employees shall work to use, assemble food in such a way t hat their activity, usage does not 
cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way.
 (H) What is taken for food wrapping shall not be a source of f ood contamination in any 
way. 
   
 (27) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the au thority area as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, usage, serving, or assembling 
food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions 
in addition to any other provisions of this By-Law. 
   
 (28) (A) Any work related to food production on the premises s hall not be open to a public road or 
public space or shall not be done in a space where air ﬂ  ows easily from such a public road 
or open space for the general public, and food production activ ities shall take place in an 
enclosed space within the premises.
  (B)  Chimneys and absorbent fans shall be installed so that h ot air and steam generated in the 
closed space for food production can ﬂ ow easily.
  (C) Noise generated from any approved activity in food produc tion shall not be a disturbance in 
any way to the public or consumers. 
 
 (29) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels use d for cleaning shall be of clean 
condition. 
   
 (30) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premise s shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (31) All cooked food that can be easily spoiled among the cook ed food on the premises shall be kept 
at a temperature not exceeding four degrees Celsius or else bel ow 60 degrees Celsius except in 
the following cases. Occasions where it is not, shall be as follows. 
   
  (A)  In cases where the entire collection is not exposed or d isplayed for sale for more than two 
hours or
   (B) When preparation and serving are done in an approximate time period. 
   
 (32) Pastries, patties, savories, pizza and similar food which  include cooked meat or ﬁ  sh which 
are consumed in the condition where there are normally sold on the premises shall be kept in 
containers with covers. 
   
 (33) Milk for use on the premises shall be kept in a refrigerator at a temperature not exceeding seven 
degrees Celsius. 
   
 (34) Pesticide materials kept on the premises shall be kept in  a locked container at a speciﬁ c place on 
the premises. 
   
 (35) The area for employee facilities in the premises shall be  with adequate sanitary facilities and 
shall be spacious and latrines for both males and females shall be maintained in accordance with 
sanitary standards. 

<!-- page 70 -->

70A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (36) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use contamination 
of food. 
   
 (37) Cleaning activities on the premises shall be carried out on a regular schedule subject to the 
following: 
   
  (A) A speciﬁ  c task assignment shall be maintained to adequately clean all sections of the 
institution, and to prioritize the cleaning and application of disinfectants in the speciﬁ c areas 
described in this by-law.
  (B) It shall be the work of the license holder to make sure t hat the work under (A) above is carried 
out precisely.
  (C)  Relevant cleaning activities shall be done to prevent du st during preparation and assembling 
of food in the premises.
  (D) All utensils used in food preparation shall be maintained  so that parts of cooked food do not 
remain in any way.
  (E) The water used for cleaning, detergents and disinfectants  shall be washed away so that it does 
not remain on the containers in any way.
  (F) The ceiling, walls, etc., of the premises shall be maintained so that no insects remain.  
   
 (38) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the pre mises in any way. 
   
 (39) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and shall 
be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant record s shall also be maintained so that 
they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the health check-ups on them shall be 
both clinical and epidemiological. 
 (40) A health monitoring system shall be set up regarding the employees working on the premises and 
a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (41) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the w ritten rules applicable to 
it. 
   
 (42) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in accordance with 
the instructions given by him. 
   
 (43) Prior to commencing work on the premises, all persons wor king on the premises shall not engage 
in cooking and assembling food without adequate sanitation after using the toilet and after contact 
with dirt, and everyone who engaged in work so shall wear a clean and pocket-free apron. 
   
 (44) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean th eir hands frequently using 
disinfectants. 
   
 (45) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   

<!-- page 71 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
71A
 (46) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask  or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed t o closed containers that are kept 
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program and instructions implemented by th e Council without mixing 
with other wastes. 
   
 (47) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises sh all maintain maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, sho es and appropriate hygienic 
clothing. 
   
 (48) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease or a 
vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious 
disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
 (49) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises sh all not engage in activities such 
as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose,  which can cause food 
contamination. 
   
 (50) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the premises. 
   
 (51) If an employee serving on the premises contracted an infe ctious, transmittable or skin disease, the 
license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons 
on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine ins tructions given by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him. 
   
 (52) The license holder shall take every step to maintain the premises in such a way not to 
happen or not to do any activity in any way that could cause fo od contamination during food 
production. 
   
 (53) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on the 
premises to the Chairman. 
   
12. (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a pre mises relevant to this by-law according 
to the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, taking into account the quality when 
fulﬁ lling the conditions under this by-law. 
   
 (2) Where the Chairman has graded under this section, the grad e of the premises for the year relevant 
to the license and a certiﬁ  cate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on the premises  as 
visible to the public. 
   
13.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whe ther it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
14.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shal l send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
15.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
Grading the 
premises.
On-site inspection 
and obtaining 
samples.

<!-- page 72 -->

72A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained in 
accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
16.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whe ther it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
17. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the l icense holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law.   
 
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
18.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 17 
above. 
   
19.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being conv icted by a Magistrate Court for that 
oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) o f the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, if the violation continues even after 
the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an 
additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987 for each day of such violation. 
   
20.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  “Council” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha 
at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license under this 
by-law,
 “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at tha t 
time,
 "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination  substance in a food, 
 "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in  the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
Power to enter the 
premises.
Cancellation of 
the license.
Penalty.
Derﬁ nitions

<!-- page 73 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
73A
 "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices t o ensure the safety and suitability of food 
at all stages in the food chain,
 "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is l ikely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects,
 "Food" means the things produced and kept for sale in the inst itution for the human consumption as 
food or drinks and the separate things used to prepare food.
 "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activit y or related work, 
 "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 . 
  
21.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this by-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
Schedule
Application to obtain a license to maintain a food production place for the year...........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
11. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
12. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
  I request you to issue me a license for the year ………………………………  for the place where 
the business mentioned above is conducted.
Date:-             
                    ……………………………….
                         Signature of the applicant .
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 74 -->

74A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
  Kindly request to provide you with your observations and reco mmendations promptly for the 
issuance of a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-                           .................................
                                                   Secretary.
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :-            
                                                                                                              …………………………….
                                       Revenue Inspector.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
  Kindly request that your observations and recommendations pro mptly for the issuance of a license 
in respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date :-                                                           .................................
                                                  Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
  Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I wi ll report for the recommendation of 
issuing a license.  
Date :-                                                           .................................
                                     Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
  I recommend/ not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above 
application. (If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date :-                                                          .................................
                                  Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.

<!-- page 75 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
75A
 BY-LAW REGARDING VEGETABLES AND FRUITS SELLING PLACES  
   
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the vegetables and fruits selling 
places in the authority area of the Kalutara. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law Regarding Vegetables and  Fruits Selling Places in the Kalutara  
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Kalutara Pradeshiy a Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a vegetables and fruits selling center or a storage center for such sale 
(hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this 
by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared in 
accordance with the schedule published in this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by e-mail to the 
extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) Permanent constructions related to the premises shall be c onstructions in accordance with the 
provisions mentioned under the Urban Development Authority Act or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) The material used for construction shall be made of materi als that do not retain living organisms, 
and permanent constructions shall be made on the premises to pr event the entry and retention of 
pests and fumes. 
   
 (3) The premises shall be designed to be easily cleaned and in  a way so that water does not 
retain. 
   
 (4) The interior of the premises shall be designed so that the nature of the fruits and vegetables can be 
inspected always. 
   
 (5) The building, walls of the premises shall be made of washa ble materials with waterprooﬁ ng so as 
not to absorb water. 
   
 (6) Every construction on the premises shall be free of holes cause for the retention of insects. 
   
 (7) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept s hall be easily disinfected and made of 
non-absorbent materials. 
   
 (8) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept s hall be inactive to disinfectants and 
cleaning agents.  
   
 (9) If vegetables or fruits are stored or stored and kept on the premises; refrigeration facilities shall be 
in place to maintain the speciﬁ ed temperature. 
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 76 -->

76A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (10) When keeping vegetables and fruits for sale, refrigeratio n facilities shall be available to maintain 
it at low temperatures. 
   
 (11) There shall be a ceiling or concrete surface above the pl ace where vegetables and fruits are stored 
or kept. 
   
 (12) The premises shall be air conditioned or windows and othe r openings shall be set so that air can 
be ﬂ ow well. 
   
 (13) The interior parts of the premises shall be constructed t o be easily cleaned. 
   
 (14) The water required for the premises shall be supplied fro m within or outside the premises and 
shall be equipped with storage facilities for continuous water supply. 
   
 (15) The premises shall have a separate place for washing vege tables and fruits and shall be constructed 
so that water does not retain in the premises.
 
 (16) Internal drains of the premises shall be directed to a so akage pit or a septic tank and if there is 
a source of water in the premises of the respective soakage pit  or septic tank, it shall be set at a 
distance of at least 15.25 meters away. 
   
 (17) For the employees on the premises; 
  (i) If staying as residents, there shall be rooms with adequa te sanitary facilities for accommodation. 
  (ii) Latrine facilities shall be provided as appropriate. 
   
 (18) Platforms for keeping or storing vegetables and fruits in  the premises shall be set at a height of at 
least 28 cm above the ground. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under Section 
7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not complied 
with. 
   
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections related 
to the issuance of a license.  
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions of this 
by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license applies. 
   
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
Inspection fees.
Validity period.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license.

<!-- page 77 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
77A
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the regulations made under Quarantine and Prev ention of Diseases Ordinance, 
the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all terms made by the Chairman 
on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic is declared applicable 
under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons who 
come to the premises expecting services, shall not related to the transactions unless they visit the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety instructions 
prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Me dical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemente d in the premises in order to 
protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the road 
or outside area. 
   
 (7) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (8) Light bulbs ﬁ  xed above the vegetables or fruits for sale or stored shall be of a safe condition and 
all of them shall be covered. 
   
 (9) Disposal of waste collected in the premises shall be done in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha and in accordance w ith the applicable written 
laws in this regard. 
   
 (10) If the waste collected at the premises is managed by the license holder himself, it shall be in 
accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Public Health Inspector or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health. 
   
 (11) When using weighing equipment for the sale of vegetables and fruits in the premises, it shall be 
done in accordance with the prescribed standards. 
   
 (12) If prepare fruits to make it easier to eat or to prepare fruit juices on the premises, everyone who 
does so shall not engage in any activity such as fruit preparation or fruit juice preparation without 
the use of gloves and hats.  
   
 (13) When preparing fruit for consumption, shall always use dr inking water and ice made from that 
water. 
   
 (14) Preparation of fruits for consumption shall not be done i n advance except in the presence of 
consumers. 
   
 (15) Vegetables and fruits shall be kept for sale so that they  do not mix with rotten vegetables and 
fruits.
 

<!-- page 78 -->

78A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (16) The premises shall be kept in a clean condition at all ti mes and no activities shall be carried out 
on the premises in such a manner as to cause any contamination of vegetables or fruits in the 
premises for any reason. 
   
 (17) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the au thority area as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons working on the premises shall maintain the premises 
in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health or a Public Health 
Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in addit ion to any other provisions of this 
By-Law. 
   
 (18) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use contamination 
of vegetables and fruits. 
   
 (19) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the pre mises in any way. 
   
 (20) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (21) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean th eir hands frequently using 
disinfectants. 
   
 (22) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they are wearing on the 
premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed containers that are kept on the 
premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in ac cordance with the 
waste management program and instructions implemented by the Co uncil without mixing with 
other wastes. 
   
 (23) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease or a 
vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious 
disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   
 (24) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic, he shall not be allowed to the premises in any event. 
   
 (25) Employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious , transmittable or skin disease, the 
license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons on 
the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
  
12.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whe ther it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
13.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the Chairman 
has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a state ment of agreement regarding the 
maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall 
enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
On-site inspection 
and obtaining 
samples.

<!-- page 79 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
79A
14. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-law or acts 
against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c time period 
not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
15.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 14 
above. 
   
16.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being conv icted by a Magistrate Court for that 
oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) o f the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, if the violation continues even after 
the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an 
additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987 for each day of such violation. 
   
17.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  “Council” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha 
at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “License holder” means an institution, person or an individua l who has obtained a license under this 
by-law,
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at tha t 
time,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work, 
  "Basic Law" means Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
   
18.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this by-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.  
Cancellation of 
the license.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nitions.
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 80 -->

80A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
Schedule
Application to obtain a license to maintain a vegetables/fruits trade stall for the year ......................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the trade 
mentioned above is conducted.
Date:-        ……………………………….
                            Signature of the applicant.
 
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
  Kindly request to provide you with your observations and reco mmendations promptly for the 
issuance of a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-         .................................
                                           Secretary.
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :-        …………………………….
                               Revenue Inspector.

<!-- page 81 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
81A
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
  Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license 
in respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date :-                             .................................
                                                Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
  Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I wi ll report for the recommendation of 
issuing a license.  
Date :-                             .................................
                                    Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
  I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the r elevant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date :-                             .................................
                                  Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.

<!-- page 82 -->

82A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
BY-LAW REGARDING RECEPTION HALLS         
1. This by-law is enacted to protect the public health under the activities of the reception halls maintained 
in the authority area of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha and regu late, supervise and control such 
places.  
   
2. This by-law is cited as the By-Law Regarding Reception Halls  in the Kalutara. Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate thes e by- laws by virtue of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.  
  
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Kalutara Pradeshiya  Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a reception hall except under a license obtained from the Chairman under 
this by-law. 
   
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall a pply for it under an application prepared in 
accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by e-mail to the 
extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall no t be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constr uctions duly made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 197 8 or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance and;
 
  (A) If the authority area is subject to zoning, the relevant constructions shall be located accordingly.
  
  (B) The Certiﬁ  cate of Conformity shall be obtained prior to construction use.  
   
 (2) All constructions shall be well made of permanent construc tion materials. 
   
 (3) The reception halls shall have the necessary reservations,  divisions and placements to prevent cross-
contamination, and the interior shall be designed to maintain adequate distance. 
   
 (4) Adequate space shall be maintained inside the halls so tha t operations can be carried out without 
interruption. 
   
 (5) Premises including buildings shall be designed to prevent the entry and retention of pests and 
contamination substances. 
   
 (6) The premises shall be designed to facilitate easy and prop er cleaning and to facilitate proper 
supervision of food hygiene. 
   
 (7) The stages in the premises shall be of proper standard and  the halls shall be designed to absorb 
internal sound. 
   
 (8) The interior of the hall shall be air-conditioned or have windows that can be opened to not less than 
one-ﬁ fteenth of the area of the hall leaving space for adequate ventilation. 
   
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 83 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
83A
 (9) Adequate lighting in halls shall be arranged in a natural or artiﬁ cial way. 
   
 (10) Doors shall have a smooth and non-absorbent surface and s hall be ﬁ xed in such a way that 
automatically closed when appropriate. 
   
 (11) Fire protection equipment shall be ﬁ  xed in all halls in the premises. 
   
 (12) There shall be no fungus growth or leakage from any of th e ﬁ xtures or structures installed in the 
premises. 
   
 (13) Window openings in the premises shall be easy to clean an d shall be ﬁ tted with nets to prevent 
insects from entering. 
   
 (14)  There shall be separate latrine facilities for customers  and employees, which shall be maintained 
separately for both males and females. 
   
 (15) Buildings on the premises shall be made with access facil ities for the disabled. 
   
 (16) Closed drains with slopes preventing sedimentation shall be installed as not to retain wastewater 
and sewage, and all drains shall be directed to a septic tank, soakage pit or central treatment unit 
constructed in accordance with an approved plan, and an approve d method shall be followed 
through a water trap or plan to prevent contamination between t he premises and the ﬁ  nal 
disposal. 
   
 (17) The waste collected in the premises shall be handed over in accordance with a waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or a speciﬁ  c arrangement shall be made for the 
disposal of waste in accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (18) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use i n the premises and shall be stored in 
containers under speciﬁ ed standards. 
   
 (19) Facilities made with stainless steel or other suitable ma terial for hand washing shall be supplied 
on the premises.  
   
 (20) In the cooking and processing area on the premises, 
  (A) Floor and walls shall be made of washable and non-slip an d non-absorbent materials.
  (B) All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned deterge nts and disinfectants.
 (C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
 (D) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be  shielded with covers prevent   
entering insects.
 (E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ  ow of air from outside and to ﬂ ow exhaust air 
out. 
   
 (21) In relation to the place where food is served to the cust omers on the premises;
 (A) The space for serving food shall be prepared with more spa ce so that food can be obtained 
with adequate distance. 

<!-- page 84 -->

84A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (B) When food is consumed in an open space, it shall be design ed to get well ventilated and 
prevent birds and other animals from entering. 
   
 (22) Adequate parking lots shall be provided for visitors to t he premises. 
   
 (23) For the employees on the premises, 
   
  (A)  If  resided, there shall be room facilities with adequat e sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the foo d processing and storage 
area. 
  (B) Rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square mete rs of space is available for each 
employee to sleep. 
   (C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provid ed.  
   
 (24) The premises shall be equipped with automatic generators of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized in 
case of emergency power failure. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under Section 
7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not complied 
with. 
   
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections related 
to the issuance of a license.  
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license applies.  
  
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordi nance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All  persons employed on the premises shall act in accorda nce with all guidelines made by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in any case where a disease is 
declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease 
Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons who come 
to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provi ded unless they visit the premises in 
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
Inspection fees.
Validity period.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license.

<!-- page 85 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
85A
accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of  an epidemic, the health safety instructions 
prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Me dical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemente d in the premises in order to 
protect from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall  be cleaned frequently with disinfectant 
and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are being so. 
   
 (7) The interior ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, and if 
it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards mentioning on that regard shall 
be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (8) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain wate r and shall be cleaned with disinfectants 
twice daily. 
   
 (9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the road 
or outside area. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there  is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shal l be maintained in accordance with the 
following requirements. 
   
  (A)  All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shal l be made of a non-absorbent material  
that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be made of stainless material.
   (B) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
  (C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal  or non-leaking materials and shall 
have lids.
   (D) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suita ble condition to be used. 
   
 (13) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not harm 
the taste of the food. 
   
 (14) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 
   
 (15) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be t horoughly washed, cleaned and 
used. 
   
 (16) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous  containers free from 

<!-- page 86 -->

86A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
contamination. 
 (17) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (18) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that t hey can be distinguished from any other 
pipeline. 
   
 (19) A speciﬁ  c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on the 
premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons shall be 
employed to regulate it. 
   
 (20) Meat and ﬁ  sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises and shall 
always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used without contamination. 
   
 (21) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling f ood on the premises;
   (A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or  ﬁ ngers 
   (B) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a fa vorable  use for food. 
   (C) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
 (D) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall a lways be kept out of contact with 
any food. 
   (E) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean a nd in separate containers.
 (F) Employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in  such a way that their activity, 
usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way. 
   
 (22) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applic able under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, handling, serving, or assembling 
food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions 
in addition to any other provisions of this By-Law.  
   
 (23) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels use d for cleaning shall be of clean 
condition. 
   
 (24) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premise s shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (25) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with  disinfectant shall be provided in the 
processing area of the premises and in the food consumption areas of the premises and adequate 
lighting shall be maintained in the premises. 
   
 (26) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, the y shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use contamination 
of food. 
   
 (27) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premi ses in any way. 

<!-- page 87 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
87A
   
 (28) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and shall 
be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records shall also be maintained so that 
they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the  health check-ups on them shall 
be both clinical and epidemiological. 
   
 (29) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (30) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the w ritten rules applicable to 
it. 
   
 (31) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public 
Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in accordance with 
the instructions given by him. 
   
 (32) Adequate ﬁ  rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   
 (33) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask  or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed t o closed containers that are kept 
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in ac cordance 
with the waste management program and instructions implemented by the Council without 
mixing with other wastes. 
   
 (34) Every person who handle food on the premises shall mainta in maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, sho es and appropriate hygienic 
clothing. 
   
 (35) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease 
or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds,  skin infections or any other 
infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.  
   
 (36) Every person involved in handling of food on the premises where the reception halls are located 
shall not engage in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, 
which can cause food contamination. 
   
 (37) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises. 
   
 (38) In the event of any person visits the premises for consum ption of food or employee serving on 
the premises of a reception hall contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin disease, the license 
holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons on the 
premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him. 
   
 (39) When the premises where the reception halls are located a re subjected to the quarantine process, 
the premises shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certiﬁ cate has been issued by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating that the quarantine period is over 
and the premises have been completely disinfected. 
   

<!-- page 88 -->

88A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (40) Health care measures that are implemented on the premises  shall be prominently displayed on 
the premises in such a way that everyone who handles and consumes food in the reception halls 
can learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted according to them. 
   
 (41) The license holder shall have provided all information re garding the employees working on the 
premises to the Chairman. 
   
12.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shal l send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained in 
accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whe ther it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-law or acts 
against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c time period 
not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 15 
above. 
   
17.  It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, shall 
be subject to a penalty under Subsection 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. Further, 
after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice has bee n 
given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional p enalty 
referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 122(2) of the Pradeshiy a Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for each 
day of such violation. 
   
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law,
   “Council” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha 
at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of  
Power to enter the 
premises.
Cancellation of the 
license.
Penalty.
Deﬁ nitions.

<!-- page 89 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
89A
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
         “License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license under this 
by-law,
           “Authorized Oﬃ  cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha at that 
time,
          "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
  "Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms i n the environment by chemicals or 
physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
  "Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages in the food chain,
  "Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects,
  "Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
  "Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activi ty or related work,
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
   
19.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address where the reception hall is located : - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:-  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11.  Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant  to the business: -
 (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-             
                   ……………………………….
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 90 -->

90A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
                         Signature of the applicant .
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
  I kindly request you to provide me your observations and reco mmendations promptly for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: -                       .................................
                                 Secretary.
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :-                                
                            …………………………….
                        Revenue Inspector.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
  I kindly request you to provide me your observations and reco mmendations promptly for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-                                          .................................
                                  Secretary.
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
  Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regula tions. I report to recommend the 
issuance of licenses.
Date :-                                                        .............................. ...
                    Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-                                       .................................
                   Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.

<!-- page 91 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
91A
BY-LAW RELATING TO BEAUTY CENTERS
1.  This by-law is enacted to control and regulate the maintena nce of beauty centers maintained 
within the authority area of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law Relating To  Beauty Cent ers of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(xxiii) of the said Act.
    
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Kalutara  Pradeshi ya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a beauty center (hereinafter  referred to as the premises) except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered pos t, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
    
 (1) Constructions relating to the premises shall be constructi ons duly made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 197 8 or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance.  
 (2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business na me.  
   
 (3) The License holder shall conﬁ  rm that a person with a Certiﬁ cate in Beauty Certiﬁ cate or a similar 
vocational competency certiﬁ cate conducted by a training institute registered with the Ter tiary 
and V ocational Education Commission is employed on the premises. 
   
 (4) Constructions on the premises shall be made of permanent c onstruction materials and shall be of 
good and hygienic condition. 
   
 (5) Adequate space shall be provided in proportion to the numb er of clients simultaneously serving 
not less than 2.25 square meters of ﬂ oor area separately for each client. 
   
 (6) For any client who arrive therein in anticipation of servi ces shall provide with adequate space to 
be seated conveniently with at least 1:5 meters distance from t he place where another client is 
being served. 
   
Short title.
Legal Power
Applying for 
a License.
Conditions 
related to
a license.

<!-- page 92 -->

92A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
Issuing a license
 (7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meter s in height and shall be painted. 
   
 (8) All sections of the premises shall be ﬁ nished with a ceiling or concrete plate and shall be at least 
2.7 meters above the ground level. 
   
 (9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that  can be opened suﬃ  ciently to allow 
air to ﬂ ow in from the outside. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be well ﬁ  nished so that the relevant light is well received.  
   
 (11) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use o f the premises and shall be stored in 
containers which meet the standards. 
   
 (12) Facilities shall be provided for bathing when required af ter providing the services of the 
client. 
   
 (13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for w ashing the equipment and containers 
used for the clients.
 
 (14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employ ees and customers of the institution and it 
shall be constructed of permanent materials in a proper and hygienic manner. 
   
 (15) Speciﬁ  c equipment shall be ﬁ xed for washing the hands, head or face of the customers and t hey 
shall be cleaned and disinfected after use by one person before  being used by another and that 
equipment shall be made of stainless materials. 
   
 (16) Adequate measures shall be taken not ﬂ  ow the wastewater discharged from the premises 
into public drains or open ground and shall be properly directe d to a septic tank or a soakage 
pit.  
   
 (17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises sha ll not be open to the outside and if there 
is a water source it shall be constructed at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.   
   
 (18) If there is a disposal of chemical wastewater from the pr emises, the relevant disposal shall be 
made in accordance with a procedure recommended by the Central Environmental Authority or 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (19) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequ ate facilities for the customers waiting 
for services. 
   
 (20) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked b y a professional and certiﬁ ed to be safe 
from leakage. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lic ense made under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 

<!-- page 93 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
93A
   
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions mentioned 
in Section 7. 
   
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law.   
 
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ  rst of the year in which the license is 
related. 
   
11.  All persons received a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders issued by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in the event of an outbreak of an 
epidemic being declared under the regulations made under the Qu arantine and Prevention of 
Diseases Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service facilities 
shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seeking services come to the premises in 
accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly o n the premises as directed by the 
Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman on their 
instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic i n the authority area to protect from 
it, and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) An information register shall be maintained relevant to al l those who come to the premises 
expecting services. 
   
 (6) Every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and  hair removal of the customers, everyone 
who engages in such activities shall wear face masks and gloves as much as possible. 
 (7) To manage and maintain equipment and utensils on the premi ses, the license holder shall ensure 
that there are, 
fees for a license

<!-- page 94 -->

94A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
  (A) Adequate facilities for the sterilization of used equipme nt and utensils; 
  (B) an accepted sterilization method and a adequate number of  equipment used for sterilization; 
  (C) Soap or soapy liquid with hand washing facilities when pr oviding services to the service 
providers inside; 
  (D) Adequate number of white or other light colored towels an d upper body covers and hats for 
the use of the clients; 
  (E) When electric power tools are used, secure and permanent power plugs, to one customer's 
desk; 
  (F) Sterilization methods after each use of equipment. 
   
 (8) Every employee working on the premises shall have a traini ng in the use of safety equipment, 
service delivery and other activities related to the premises. 
   
 (9) Facilities shall be available to provide hot and cold wate r as required for the services relevant to 
the premises. 
   
 (10) Everything used for cosmetic purposes shall be standardiz ed things approved and 
registered. 
   
 (11) Service providers shall be well trained to provide ﬁ  rst aid functions as required under the services 
provided on the premises. 
   
 (12) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of ai r in the premises, and if air conditioned, 
all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature. 
   
 (13) The ﬁ  lters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regular ly cleaned and 
maintained. 
   
 (14) The relevant service shall be provided only after the han ds have been cleaned with soap or 
sanitizer before providing the service to a customer. 
   
 (15) When working on the premises, the service shall not be pr ovided to a customer without adequate 
cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any contaminants. 
   
 (16) When serving the customers on the premises, every service  provider shall wear an apron and it 
shall be of very clean condition. 
   
 (17) Dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each servi ce on the premises, and all shall be 
temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin. 
   
 (18) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleane d daily with disinfectants before starting 
work. 
   
 (19) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose. 
   

<!-- page 95 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
95A
. (20) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for t he separate collection of waste collected in 
the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that.  
   
 (21) The following procedures shall be followed in the managem ent of waste that collects in relation 
to the premises.
  (A) Removed hair shall be collected at the end of each servic e and disposed in a separate garbage 
bin. 
  (B) Other waste generated by the activities in the premises s hall be collected separately without 
mixing them with the discharged hair. 
  (C) The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in ac cordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance with the waste disposal strategy 
implemented by the license holder as agreed by the Public Health Inspector.  
   
 (22) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected  at least twice a day and shall be kept free 
from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an e pidemic in the authority area, the 
latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with the guidelines given 
by the Chairman as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 (23) Any person who suﬀ  ers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has recently 
suﬀ ered from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person who has recently infected from 
any such disease, unless the period of infection and incubation has expired, shall not be employed 
or employed as an assistant at any licensed place. 
   
 (24) Any person identiﬁ  ed as suﬀ ering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall not 
normally be entered to the premises for service. 
   
 (25) When the license holder decides or in case where it is pr escribed by the Council or any other 
competent authority as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the body temperature of all 
persons visit seeking service on the premises shall be checked to ensure that their body temperature 
is at a normal level and entered into the premises, and required thermometers shall be maintained 
to check body temperature without contact. 
  
 
 (26) The health guidelines to be followed by each client on th e premises shall be displayed on the 
premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activitie s are carried out in accordance with 
those guidelines. 
   
 (27) Applies to everyone employed on the premises, the license  holder shall ensure that, 
  (A) That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good healt h condition, 
  (B) That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a  manner that does not harm the 
customer, 
  (C) That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to service . 
   

<!-- page 96 -->

96A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (28) It is the job of the license holder to subject the employ ees of the premises to medical checkups at 
least once a year. 
   
 (29) A copy of this by-law and license shall be maintained on display in each premises. 
   
12.  Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of a n epidemic in the area, when the Chairman 
has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a state ment of agreement regarding the 
maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder 
shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy 
of it to the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order.
 
   
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whe ther it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
    
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-law 
or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the l icense holder informing a speciﬁ c 
time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law.   
 
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 15 
above. 
   
17.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being conv icted by a Magistrate Court for 
that oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) o f the Pradeshiya Sabha Act 
No. 15 of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ  ense, if the violation continues 
even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be 
subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for each day of such violation. 
   
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  “Council” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
Power to 
center the Premiss
Cancellation 
of the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions

<!-- page 97 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
97A
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority 
area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Disinfectant" means to reduce the amount of microorganisms in the environment by a chemical 
agent or physical means to a level that does not reduce the safety or suitability,
     "Reasonable Time" shall mean the Licensed Function or the relevant time.    
  
   
19.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this by-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address where the beauty center is maintained: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:-  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
 (Copies should be attached)
Inconsistency
between texts

<!-- page 98 -->

98A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-             
                     
        ...………………………………. 
         Signature of the applicant 
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-                            .................................
                                                    Secretary
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :-                …………………………….
                                       Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promp tly for the issuance of a license in 
respect of the application mentioned in the back.
Date :-                             .................................
                                                 Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.  
Date :-                             .................................
                                    Public Health Inspector
Secretary, 
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. (If 
not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date :-                             .................................
                                Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health

<!-- page 99 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
99A
BY-LAW ON PRIV ATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise and inspect m atters relating to public health in places 
where private educational institutions are maintained within th e authority area of the Kalutara 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law on Private Educational I nstitutions of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Kalutara Pradeshiy a Sabha (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain any building as a private educational institution except under a 
license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
    
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered pos t, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  It is lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ  xed inspection fee for site inspections to be 
carried out prior to the issuance of a license in relation to t he application made under this by-
law. 
   
8.  Anyone applying for a license under this by-law shall have fulﬁ lled the following conditions 
applicable to a private educational institution herein (hereinafter referred to as premises). 
   
 (1) All permanent constructions pertaining to the premises sha ll be constructions in accordance with a 
plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or under the Housing 
and Urban Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) All constructions on the premises shall be compliant with the objectives for an educational 
purpose. 
   
 (3) All relevant constructions shall be with a proper ﬁ  nishing and arranged in a manner that is 
more favorable and does not adversely aﬀ  ect the educational activities carried out on the 
premises. 
   
 (4) The internal structure of the premises, the layout shall b e arranged with adequate space. 
   
 (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper 
cleanliness. 
Short title
Applying 
for a License
Inspection fees
Conditions
 for a License

<!-- page 100 -->

100A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
   
 (6) The premises shall be properly ventilated and lighted, or artiﬁ cially fulﬁ lled with the necessary 
requirements. 
   
 (7) All outputs on the premises shall be permanently made. 
   
 (8) There shall be separate entrances and exits to the premise s and there shall be emergency exits to 
exit the premises in case of an emergency. 
   
 (9) Lecture halls shall be set up in the premises with platfor ms and they shall be well ventilated or air 
conditioned. 
   
 (10) Each lecture hall shall have separate entrances and exits  and shall include an additional exit door 
for emergency exits when the hall is for more than one hundred students. 
   
 (11) Loudspeaker facilities shall be provided when there is a lecture hall for more than ﬁ  fty 
children. 
   
 (12) In the interior layout of a lecture hall, the seats shall  be arranged so that they can be seated 
at a distance from each other and each seat shall have a table that is at least 0.75 m long and 
wide. 
   
 (13) If the tables and seats in a lecture hall are arranged in  such a way that they can be seated together, 
the space shall be kept so that the dimensions and distances me ntioned in Section 12 above can 
be maintained and when seating for a group, seats and tables sh all be set up to accommodate no 
more than six students. 
   
 (14) Between seats and tables; There shall be enough space bet ween each set of seat and table, and the 
space provided shall be in such way that it is easy to move. 
   
 (15) Seats and tables shall be ﬁ  rmly ﬁ xed to the ﬂ  oor and all shall be well made and easy to 
use. 
   
 (16) The interior walls of the premises shall be arranged in s uch a way that they do not retain organisms 
and every wall shall be properly ﬁ nished. 
   
 (17) The premises shall have a ﬁ  re protection program in place and a ﬁ  re safety certiﬁ cate shall be 
obtained as applicable. 
   
 (18) All halls and other buildings constructed within the prem ises and section without constructions 
shall be free from unsafe barriers and shall be in a risk-free condition. 
   
 (19) Drains in the premises shall be constructed in such a way  that it easily drained without retaining 
wastewater and shall be directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit or a central treatment 
unit. 
   

<!-- page 101 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
101A
 (20) Septic tanks and soakage pits installed in the premises s hall be installed in accordance with the 
approved plan and if there is a water source, it shall be set at a distance of at least 15.25 m away 
and it shall not be exposed to air. 
   
 (21) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the prem ises and all latrines;
  (A) Shall be provided separately for males and females.
  (B) Shall equipped with water storage facilities to maintain an adequate supply of water on a 
regular basis.
  (C) Each latrine shall have a permanent well-ﬁ  xed stainless water basin with a good water supply 
for hand washing at a speciﬁ ed space allocated.
 
   
   
9.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under Section 
8 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 8 are not complied 
with. 
   
10.  The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by- law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
11.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license applies. 
   
12.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act  in accordance with the following 
conditions herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the a dvice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) The premises shall be well ventilated; if not, all lecture  halls shall be air-conditioned and the 
relevant air conditioning machines shall be in good working con dition in order to maintain a 
proper temperature. 
   
 (3) The sound emitted by the loudspeakers maintained in the le cture halls; shall be adequately 
controlled and maintained in accordance with the national environmental regulations. 
   
Issuing license
Information 
related to a 
license 
Fees for a 
license
Validity period  
of a license    

<!-- page 102 -->

102A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (4) If someone with an infectious disease condition arrives, t here shall be a speciﬁ c place on each 
premises to temporarily quarantine them.
 
 (5) Suﬃ   cient identity information including the name, addresses, and telephone numbers of all those 
studying on the premises shall be maintained, and information a bout the daily visitors shall be 
maintained in an identiﬁ able manner. 
   
 (6) All latrines in the premises shall be regularly disinfecte d and maintained.
 
 (7) All drains in the premises shall be properly cleaned and m aintained on the ground surface 
preventing water and dust retention. 
   
 (8) If hand hygiene is required when entering the premises, wa ter basins with adequate water supply 
shall be installed and cleaning agents and sanitizers shall be provided. 
   
 (9) Seats shall be arranged in such a way that the lecturer is  easily visible to the students and the 
students are easily visible to the lecturer. 
   
 (10) A system shall be set up to record information about thos e who visit the premises on each day when 
the educational activities takes place, shall maintain a separate identity information regarding all 
those who work on the premises. 
   
 (11) About employees working on the premises,
  (A) If employed as a resident, there shall be adequate sanita ry facilities and accommodation  
 facilities.
  (B) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided and maintai ned separately for males and 
females. 
   
 (12) First aid facilities shall be provided on the premises so  that they can be used for emergencies; The 
staﬀ  shall be trained for that. 
   
 (13) Noise generated during lectures on the premises shall be controlled in accordance with the 
regulations of the Central Environmental Authority. 
   
 (14) All electrical wiring connections in the premises shall b e properly maintained; A report from 
an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ  ed professional shall be obtained at least once in every two 
years. 
   
 (15) A person suﬀ  ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infecte d or such a vector or 
an infected person shall not be employed on the premises and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed 
that such person is not employed. 
   
 (16) Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed in sea led garbage bins speciﬁ cally maintained 
for that purpose; and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises; all of them shall 

<!-- page 103 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
103A
only be disposed into foot-operated containers which shall be maintained on the premises for only 
that purpose. 
   
 (17) Sewage collected on the premises shall be disposed in acc ordance with a program implemented 
by the Pradeshiya Sabha or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (18) It is lawful for the Chairman to carry out the following actions on the premises or any of them 
or any other regulations for the beneﬁ t of public health on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health when required to act in the event of an outbreak of an e pidemic under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or a regulation made under it or when there is an epidemic 
situation in the authority area or when the Chairman has decide d, on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, that there are suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the spread of an epidemic.
  (A) That the work on the premises carried out under the licen ces shall be temporarily suspended 
for a period of time.
  (B) That an emergency response plan shall be in place on the premises.
  (C) That mass gatherings within the premises shall be stopped .
  (D) That the distribution of lecture leaﬂ  ets by hand shall be stopped.
  (E) That a speciﬁ  ed distance shall be maintained within the premises.
  (F) That to make sure that the body temperature is below the normal range, when entering the     
      premises.
  (G) That the air conditioner ﬁ  lters shall be cleaned once a week.
 
  (H) That shall be entered to a statement of agreement with th e Chairman related to the      
      maintenance  of the premises in accordance with the set of instructions.
  (I) That food shall not be sold or distributed on the premise s.
  (J) That respiratory etiquettes shall be followed when coughi ng and sneezing.
 
  (K) That there shall be a speciﬁ  c place for food consumption and that food shall be consumed  
       separately at that place.
  (L) That health guidelines to be maintained on the premises s hall be exhibited in an easily  
       identiﬁ able manner.
  (M) That entry into the premises and exit from the premises s hall be done in groups.
 
  (N) That those who work on the premises shall undergo regular  medical check-ups as
          prescribed  by the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health at regular intervals. 
   
13.  If the sale of processed food is carried out on the premis es, the premises shall be maintained in 

<!-- page 104 -->

104A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
accordance with the relevant written laws and none of those sha ll be considered to have been 
suppressed subject to a license obtained under this by-law. 
   
14.  Each premises shall display this by-law and the license ob tained thereon or a copy 
thereof. 
   
15.  It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other 
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time to 
inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.  
  
16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law  violates the provisions of this by-law or 
acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c time 
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice.
 
17.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be 
comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 
above. 
   
18.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained u nder this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that 
oﬀ ense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987, Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after 
the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to 
an additional penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of such violation.  
   
19.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
    “Council” means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara  Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority 
area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. 
   
That the license 
shall be displayed
Power to enter a 
premises
Cancellation 
of the license
penalty
Deﬁ nitions

<!-- page 105 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
105A
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
   
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the private educational institution: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the private educational institution is registered, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the private educational institution,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
11. Approved building plan number and date: -
12. Number and Date of the Certiﬁ cate of Conformity: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year………….......
Date: -             
                   ……………………………….
                      Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: -         .................................
                                 Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date :-          …………………………….
                           Revenue Inspector
Inconsistency 
between tex

<!-- page 106 -->

106A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for  the issuance of a license in relation to 
the application mentioned on the back.
Date:-                                              .................................
                                          Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date :-                                                   .................................
                             Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date:-                                                          .................................
                                Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
BY-LAWS ON THE CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH CARE 
FACILITIES
1.  This By-Law is enacted for the control and management of pu blic health care facilities in the. 
Kalutara  Pradeshiya Sabha area.
 
2.  This by-law is cited the by-law on the control and manageme nt of public health care facilities in 
the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha. Area.
 
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 
126(IX)   of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said Act.
 
4.  Public health care facilities implemented in the. Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha area (hereinafter 
referred to as Authority area) shall be necessary to maintain i t in an appropriate manner. The 
Chairman shall, in consultation with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, take such action. 
   
5.  The Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health and all Public Health Inspectors in the authori ty area shall be 
treated as oﬃ  cers of the Sabha for the purpose of controlling and managing  the public health 
facilities operated by the Sabha. 
6.  The Chairman may delegate any of the powers and functions c onferred on him under any written 
law in the control and management of public health facilities in the Authority area to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspectors subject to the provisions of the relevant written 
law. 
Short Title
Delegate of 
Power
The Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health 
and the Public 
Health Inspectors 
shall be treated 
as oﬃ  cer of the 
Sabha

<!-- page 107 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
107A
   
7.  1.The management of public health care facilities related t o the following services operated by 
the Sabha in the authority area shall be carried out under the supervision of the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health.
  1. Waste management activities in the area
  2. Maternal and Child Health Clinics
  3. Public toilets and latrines
  4. Public Market Services
  5.Maintaining slaughterhouses
    
8.  In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic aﬀ  ecting the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the Regulations made under it, or any other regul ation applicable under that 
Ordinance, shall be maintained by the Sabha. All regulations re garding the maintenance of 
services shall be made by the Chairman in accordance with the recommendations of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health.
9.  A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next month in the proper 
maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by the S abha and a monthly report on the 
activities related to the management of the public health facil ities relevant to the public health 
in the area with respect to the previous month shall be submitt ed by the the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health to the Sabha every month. 
10.  The recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health shall be submitted to the Sabha in respect 
of every measure applicable to the control and management of th e relevant health care facilities 
in the authority exercise of the Sabha within the authority are a of the Public Health Authority 
conferred by the written law. 
   
11.  Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious disease within 
the authority area or in case of a disease situation connected under the Quarantine or Prevention 
of Diseases Ordinance and the orders made under it, steps shall  be taken by the Chairman in 
consultation with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
12.  In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering person to duly 
provide such prescribed information to the prescribed persons within the prescribed time. 
13.  Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread  of an epidemic or any contagious 
disease within the authority area applicable to the regulations  made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of diseases Ordinance. It is lawful for a Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to direct any person 
to provide data to himself or to an authorized authority. 
   
14  If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accordan ce with an order under Section 11 
above, does not act in accordance with Section 12 above and after being convicted by a Magistrate 
Court under section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 shall be subjected to a 
penalty. 
Under the 
spervision of 
the Medical 
Making 
Regulations
Monthly Report
Penalty
Obtaining details

<!-- page 108 -->

108A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
15.  It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain a proper arrang ement under the Head Oﬃ  ce of the 
Sabha and all sub-oﬃ  ces for the execution of the functions prescribed and delegat ed under this 
By-Law. 
   
16.    Unless other meanings are required in relation to the te rms of this by-law,  “Sabha”  
  refers  the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha
  “Chairman” refers those who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara   
  Pradeshiya Sabha at present or perform the duties of that oﬃ   ce,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the Medical  
  O ﬃ   cer  of Health Division relevant to the  Pradeshiya Sabha are a.
  "Public Health Inspector" refers a person who holds the post of Public Health   
  Inspector attached to the oﬃ   ce of the Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha or Medical   
  O ﬃ   cer of Health attached to the authority area of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Person" refers to a person or in case of an organization, th e Managing Director or  
  Manager of the organization or any person acting on behalf of  that organization, 
   
17.  If there are inconsistencies between the Sinhala, Tamil an d English texts in this by-law, the 
Sinhala text will prevail. 
   
BY-LAW FOR SETTING STANDARDS TO BE FOLLOWED REGARDING SANITARY 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIV ATE MARKETS OR FAIRS
1.  This by-law is enacted to set standards to be followed rega rding the sanitary requirements for 
private markets or fairs within the authority area of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law on the setting of sanita ry standards for fairs of the    Kalutara  
Pradeshiya Sabha.
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(xii) of the said Act.
 
   
4.  The extent of the land (hereinafter referred to as the prem ises) on which each market, including a 
public market and a private market (hereinafter referred to as market), which is located within the 
jurisdiction of the Kalutara  Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the authority area) shall 
be speciﬁ ed, and it shall be a premises maintained and prepared under a name board for the same 
purpose. 
   
5.  All markets located within the authority area shall be main tained in accordance with the following 
standards to maintain proper sanitary conditions.
    
 (1) The premises shall be zoned mainly for the exchange of goo ds brought for sale in vehicles 
as meat and ﬁ  sh, vegetables and fruits and other goods and for the washing of fruits and 
vegetables. 
   
Short Title
That a Maarket 
Shall comply with 
sanitary standards

<!-- page 109 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
109A
 (2) Latrines in the premises shall be adequate for both men and women outside the zones referred to 
in Sub-Section (1) above and shall be directed to a septic tank  or soakage pit by a speciﬁ c drain 
so that the water used therein shall not ﬂ ow into any zone of the premises. 
   
 (3) Zones within the premises shall be numbered and displayed in a map at the entrance to the 
premises in order for the easy attention of the visitors to the premises. 
   
 (4) Permanent constructions within the premises shall be const ructions built in accordance with the 
provisions of the written law to that eﬀ ect. 
   
 (5) Every construction on the premises shall be well construct ed and anything or any material used 
for that purpose shall not release anything which contaminates food. 
   
 (6) Necessary separations shall be made to prevent cross-conta mination in the premises. 
   
 (7) Arrangements shall be made to prevent the spread of animal s such as dogs and cats in the premises, 
and all construction surfaces shall be prepared as inanimate surfaces. 
   
 (8) A parking zone shall be established to prevent contaminati on of things brought in, things kept in 
the premises for sale from any substance, liquid or gas releases or leaks from any vehicle entering 
the premises. 
   
 (9) The people deployed to unload, move the goods or the peopl e work for such purposes shall be 
pre-identiﬁ ed for the purpose and the information for their identities sh all be maintained by the 
market keeper documenting and updating the information. 
   
 (10) The market keeper shall document the identities of those who come to the premises for trade and 
those who come for their support and maintain the information updated. 
   
 (11) The ﬂ  oor of the premises shall be prepared so that water does not stagnate and the internal drains 
shall be arranged so that water can ﬂ ow easily. 
   
 (12) Septic tank or soakage pit shall be adequately constructe d in the premises to allow wastewater to 
ﬂ ow, and any soakage pit or soakage pit in the premises shall b e located at a distance of at least 
15.25 m, if there is a water source without an external opening. 
   
 (13) All stands set up to keep goods for trade within the prem ises shall have a washable surface and 
each surface shall be disinfected and cleaned prior to use. 
   
 (14) The interior layout of the premises shall be arranged wit h a reasonable distance to walk 
easily.  
   
 (15) Goods and materials sold on the premises shall be kept ou t of direct contact with the ground and 
shall be placed on a stand or platform at a certain height above the ground. 
   
 (16) Closed garbage bins shall be set up in each zone suﬃ   cient for the temporary disposal of waste 

<!-- page 110 -->

110A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
collected in the premises, and the waste shall be disposed only  to the appropriate garbage bin 
where it should be disposed of according to its nature. 
   
 (17) Traders engaged in trading in the premises or customers s hall not spit on the premises. 
   
 (18) No cooking or lighting shall be done on the premises and if cooked food is taken out and sold, all 
such food shall be stored in airtight containers and all food shall be sold with gloves and kitchen 
tongs. 
   
 (19) When disposing the gloves, masks used on the premises; Sp eciﬁ c closed garbage bins shall be 
adequately maintained for their disposal; relevant disposals shall be done accordingly. 
   
 (20) Within the area where the ﬁ  sh is sold on the premises;
  (A) Stands for the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned and used 
before use with soap or disinfectant.
  (B) The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soak age pit through properly constructed 
closed drains.
  (C) If ﬁ  sh is stored, it should be refrigerated and stored at a temperature of two degrees Celsius or 
less.
  (D) Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale shall be secured and covered.
  (E) No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above t he place where the ﬁ sh is kept for sale 
and in contact with the ﬁ sh and no contamination of the ﬁ sh shall occur in any way.
  (F) Sewage collected during the sale of ﬁ  sh shall be temporarily collected in closed garbage 
bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and dis posed in accordance with a waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance with the instructions 
of the Public Health Inspector. 
  (G) Refrigerated ﬁ  sh kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient temperature.
  (H) What is used for packaging in the sale of ﬁ  sh shall not be a printed paper or a packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the ﬁ sh.
  (I) All ﬁ  shmongers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
  (J) All ﬁ  shmongers shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling ﬁ sh.
  (K) Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and cleaned. 
   
 (21) Within the area where the meat is sold on the premises;

<!-- page 111 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
111A
  (A) Stands for the sale of meat shall be made of permanent ma terials and shall be cleaned and 
used before use with soap or disinfectant.
  (B) The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soak age pit through properly prepared 
closed drains.
  (C) If meat is stored, it should be refrigerated and meat sho uld be stored at a temperature of two 
degrees Celsius or less.
  (D) Light bulbs and ﬁ  ttings hanging above the meat for sale shall be secured and covered.
  (E) No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above t he place where the meat is kept for 
sale and in contact with the meat and the contamination of the meat shall not occur in any way.
  (F) Sewage collected during the sale of meat shall be tempora rily collected in closed garbage bins 
so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed  in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or as pe r the instructions of the 
Public Health Inspector.
  (G) Refrigerated meat kept for sale shall not be re-refrigera ted under ambient temperature.
  (H) What is used for packaging in the sale of meat shall not be printed paper or packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the meat.
  (I) All meat sellers shall not be infected with any infectiou s disease or skin disease.
  (J) All engaged in the sale of meat shall wear appropriate cl ean clothes while selling meat.
  (K) Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and cleaned. 
   
 (22) Within the area where vegetables and fruits are sold on t he premises;
  (A) Sales locations shall be well ventilated and well lighted  artiﬁ cially or naturally.
  (B) No washing of fruits and vegetables shall be done on the same place; vegetables and fruits 
washed and cleaned in a separate place on the premises for this purpose shall be kept for sale.
  (C) No rotten vegetables or fruits shall be mixed with good q uality vegetables and fruits.
  (D) A person suﬀ  ering from any infectious disease, infected or a person suﬀ  ering from a skin 
disease shall not engage in selling activities.
  (E) Rotten fruits and vegetables shall be disposed only in sp eciﬁ cally designated containers.
  (F) No person engaged in sale shall eat food, smoke, spit, ch ew betel and other items, cough, 
sneeze or touch the nose in such a manner as to contaminate vegetables or fruits and the hygiene 

<!-- page 112 -->

112A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
of vegetables and fruits shall be maintained.
   (G) The water used to prevent drying of vegetables and fruit s shall be drinking water and the use 
of any prohibited chemical substance in fruits and vegetables shall not be allowed. 
   
 (23) When the Chairman has made an order in this regard on the  instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health that any epidemic situation has arisen in an authority a rea or when any of the provisions 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or any of the regulations 
made therein shall come into force, the following actions shall be properly implemented;
  (A) That facilities shall be provided for cleaning hands at s peciﬁ c places in the premises and 
action will be taken accordingly.
  (B) That the prevailing conditions and regulations regarding the use of public toilets in the 
premises shall be properly implemented.
  (C) That the disinfection process to be carried out in the pr emises on the instructions of the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector shall be carried  out in accordance with 
the recommended schedule.
  (D) That all operations on the premises shall be carried out in accordance with the instructions 
given to the users of the premises to protect social distancing.
  (E) That action will be taken accordingly when the entry of v ehicles into the premises is restricted.
  (F) That notices have been circulated in the premises regardi ng the health practices to be followed 
from time to time and that action will be taken accordingly.
  (O) That the masks and gloves used in the premises are dispos ed without mixing with other 
garbage. 
   
6.  In order to maintain a market in accordance with the standa rds set forth in Section 5 of this by-
law, all actions shall be taken by a keeper of the common market in the case of a common market 
and by the license holder in the case of a private market. 
   
7.  The Chairman or a Public Health Inspector or an authorized oﬃ  cer shall inspect whether the 
premises are maintained in accordance with the standards set forth in this by-law.   
 
8.  When any market is maintained in violation of or  not compl ies with the standards set out 
in Section 5 above; a written notice issued by the Chairman may  specify a time period to be 
compliance with the standards. 
9.  Failure to comply with a notice issued under Section 8 abov e shall be an oﬀ ense and shall be 
punishable under Sub-Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Ac t No. 15 of 1987, after being 
convicted by a Magistrate Court.
    
Inspecting Power
Provide a 
speciﬁ e time
 period by notice
penalty

<!-- page 113 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
113A
10.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  "Council" means  Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means to the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position.
  “Authorized Oﬃ   cer” means any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Kalutara 
Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contaminatio n substance in a food or food 
chain; 
  "Hygiene" means all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability of 
food at all stages of a food chain. 
   
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
BY-LAW REGARDING PROVISIONS RELATING TO DISINFECTION OF 
PUBLIC PLACES
1.  This by-law is enacted to make provisions for the relevant incidental matters, including the 
disinfection of public places and places of worship within the authority area of the Kalutara 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law regarding the provisions  relating to disinfection of public 
places in the Kalutara  Pradeshiya Sabha. 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 122 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
 
   
4.  Under the following circumstances the Chairman shall disinf ect or arrange to do so any place 
where the public gathers or gathered for matters of public impo rtance or for a speciﬁ c purpose 
including places of worship within the authority area of the Ka lutara Pradeshiya Sabha (herein 
after referred to as authority area):
    
 (1) In cases where there is a need to disinfect places of wors hip or other places where public gathers 
or gathered located within the authority area in accordance with the provisions of the Quarantine 
and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it. 
   
 (2) When there is a spread of an epidemic in any part or terri tory of Sri Lanka or in the authority area 
or when the Chairman has decided on the advice of the Medical O ﬃ  cer of Health that there are 
suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the spread of any epidemic in the authority area. 
   
Short Title
Circumstances 
where 
disinfection 
shall be done
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 114 -->

114A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
 (3) When a person dies due to an undiagnosed disease in a auth ority area and the places where the 
deceased person travelled has been identiﬁ ed. 
   
 (4) When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector has decided that the premises 
should be disinfected when a large gathering of the public is held or is being held at any place of 
worship and when such a religious ceremony is over. 
   
 (5) When a premises is maintained for a period of time without  any activity and is used to gather 
people back to the premises. 
   
 (6) When it has been reported that a patient who has been infe cted or suspected of being infectious, 
or who has been in contact with such a patient has visited or a cted in a place where public is 
gathered.  
   
 (7) When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health has advised that the areas identiﬁ ed as common public places 
shall be disinfected, when an outbreak of an epidemic is reported in their authority area or in any 
part of Sri Lanka. 
   
 
(8)  When the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health has instructed that the relevant premises shall be disinfected 
for the beneﬁ t of the public health, when it matters the public to gather at any place of worship or 
public place.  
   
 (9) When any public places are subject to disinfection in acco rdance with a plan implemented for the 
purpose of promoting and protecting public health in the authority area. 
   
 (10) Whenever it is decided by the Chairman to disinfect any p ublic premises as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health that it should be done for the sake of a more accurate health care 
existence. 
   
5.  If any public premises in the authority area is used by any  person for public gathering, when there 
is a possibility of an epidemic spreading in the area or when there is a suspicion that it may be so, 
it is lawful for the Chairman to make any of the following orde rs to the person or the organizer 
engaged as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
    
 (1) That the premises shall be disinfected before gathering th e people in the relevant 
premises. 
   
 (2) That the premises shall be disinfected after the people ha ve gathered and dispersed in the relevant 
premises. 
   
 (3) That the premises shall be disinfected before and after us e. 
   
6.  It is the responsibility and duty of the person who gets th e order to act in accordance with the 
orders made by the Chairman under the above section. 
   
Ordering a 
part to disinfect

<!-- page 115 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
115A
7.  The Chairman may act for the disinfection of religious plac es and public places within the 
authority area for the beneﬁ t of the public in accordance with a speciﬁ c schedule prepared on the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
8.  It is an oﬀ  ense if a person does not act in accordance with the orders made under Section 5 above 
by the Chairman and shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Sec tion 122(2) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, after being convicted by a Magistrate Court.
   
9.  If disregards the orders made by the Chairman under Section  5,it is lawful for the Chairman 
to disinfect the premises relevant to that order and charge the  defaulter the cost spent 
incurred. 
   
10.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  "Council" means Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha,
  "Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the  Kalutara Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or performs the duties of that position,
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means those who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 "Public Health Inspector" means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector  
 attached  to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the oﬃ   ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant   
 to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 "Person" means an individual or managing director or manager o f the organization or any  
 person acting on behalf of that organization when referring to  an organization by the name of  
 an individual. 
   
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.    
BY-LAW ON THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR MARKET SUPERVISORS  AND OTHER 
EMPLOYEES
1.  This By-Law is imposed to specify the relevant Terms and Co nditions for the proper performance 
of the duties of the Supervisors and Other Employees appointed for the market owned by 
Kaluthara. Pradeshiya Sabha 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law to specify the work of t he market Supervisors and Other 
Employees of Kaluthara Pradeshiya Sabha 
   
3.  The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate the se by- laws by virtue of Section 
126(XII)   of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of the said 
Act. 
Short title
Penalty
Deﬁ nition
Inconsistency
between texts

<!-- page 116 -->

116A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
   
4.  For every market belong to the . Kaluthara..Pradeshiya Sabh a, there should be a post in the 
name of the market supervisor and a suitable person should be appointed to the post. Appropriate 
appointments should be made by the authority
 
5.  The provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 as well as the 
provisions of Sub-section 19 (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 as appropriate, shall 
be applicable with regard to appointments to the post of Market Supervisor. 
   
6.  In order to carry out the duties of the Market Supervisor in a proper and appropriate manner, the 
necessary supporting posts shall be created by the Sabha and es tablished in accordance with the 
relevant procedures  
   
7.  The Market Supervisor shall carry out the following functions either by himself or his associates 
within the Public Market Premises (hereinafter referred to as the Premises) 
   
 
 (1) Registration and maintenance of all traders in the premise s. 
   
 (2) Placement of Traders by taking into account the zoning tha t operates within the premises. 
   
 (3) If there is a permanent operation of the shops, it is nece ssary to keep a close eye on the 
conduct of the trade under the respective premises in accordanc e with the terms of the relevant 
agreement. 
   
 (4) To monitor the cleanliness of the latrines in the premises  and to ensure that the latrines are 
maintained in accordance with the by-laws regarding public latrines and to direct the staﬀ  in this 
regard 
      
 (5) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance with the 
waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
   
 (6) Sewage in the premises should be directed to the respectiv e pits or suction ditches so that water 
does not escape out of the drains 
   
 (7) Taking all measures to maintain the provisions of the by-laws of the Pradeshiya Sabha regarding 
the public market and private market regarding the trade carried out in the premises 
   
 (8) Carrying out the disinfection process in the public market  premises in a timely manner. 
   
 (9) Ensuring that no alcohol, drug use or any other illegal ac tivities take place in the remises. 
   
 (10) Taking all necessary steps to maintain the premises as a public health friendly premises. 
   
Appointment
Supporting 
posts creation
Functions
 of market
Supervisor

<!-- page 117 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  –  13.02.2023
117A
 (11) Prevent parking of vehicles other than in the parking lot  within the premises and direct the proper 
use of the entrances and exits. 
   
 (12) Advice and guide the users on matters to be followed for the regular cleanliness of the premises 
and supervise accordingly. 
   
 (13) Prevent begging, temporary accommodation and unauthorized  use of the premises. 
   
 (14) Take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of animal s such as dogs and cats on the 
premises. 
  
 (15) Taking action to collect the fees and rent due for the Pr adeshiya Sabha from the traders engage in 
trade in the premises.
   
8.  The Supervisor of the public market may delegate the task t o the assistants to carry out the work 
assigned to him under Article 6 of this by-law and he shall ens ure that the work so assigned is 
carried out in a proper and appropriate manner. 
   
9.  Whenever there is an outbreak of an epidemic in any part or  territory of Sri Lanka or when there 
is a suspicion of an outbreak in the authority area, It is the duty of the Market Supervisor to ensure 
that all steps are taken to implement the following or any other instruction given by the Chairman 
on the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health regarding the premises   
 
 (1) Make sure that the water supply for hand washing placed in  various places on the premises is safe 
and in constant use for the users of the premises. 
   
 (2) Ensure that the conditions connected with the use of publi c latrines in the premises are properly 
observed and the relevant health instructions are followed. 
   
 (3) The disinfection process on the premises should be carried  out in accordance with the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (4) All activities in the premises are carried out in accordan ce with the instructions given to the users 
of the premises to maintain the social distance  
   
 (5) Action shall be taken in accordance with the instructions to restrict the entry of vehicles into the 
premises. 
   
 (6) That health advice to be followed in the premises shall be  displayed in the premises through 
advertisements and other advertising methods. 
   
 (7) The disposal of the waste of used Masks, gloves, etc. in t he premises are to be considered as 
clinical waste and they are disposed without mixing with other waste  
  
 (8) In the event of the Chairman suspending business activitie s in the premises for the sake of public 
health, no trade or public gathering shall not be taken place in the premises  
Follow the
 Instruction 
during the
 outbreak of 
an epidemic

<!-- page 118 -->

118A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'02'13
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 13.02.2023
   
 (9) Each stall in the premises has a speciﬁ  c person appointed in connection with the cash 
transactions 
   
 (10) Any instruction given by the Chairman on the instructions  of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Public Health Inspector for the beneﬁ t of the public health shall be duly executed within the 
premises. 
   
10.  It is the responsibility of the Market Supervisor to carry  out the duties assigned to him and make 
other employees to carry out their duties assigned to them, properly by this by-law. 
   
11.  The market supervisor shall maintain a records of the day- to-day activities of the employees in 
the premises; a daily notebook should also be maintained in the  premises for visitors' notes for 
follow-up  
12.  It is the responsibility and duty of the Market Supervisor  to ensure that all activities are carried 
out in accordance with the written directives related to the public market and its activities by the 
Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, and that the instructions given after such supervision 
are properly implemented 
   
13.  The Supervisor of the market shall always act under the ge neral administration of the Chairman 
and Secretary of the Sabha 
14.  1.Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this by-law, 
  “Sabha” means Kalutara Pradesiya Sabha
  Act under the Genaral administration of the chairman and Secr etary of the sabha.
  "Chairman" means Kaluthara the current Chairman of the Prades hiya Sabha or those who hold 
the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman, 
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area,
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the post o f Public Health Inspector attached 
to the oﬃ  ce of the Pradeshiya Sabha or Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health working in the authority area 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha
   
15.  If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, Englis h and Tamil texts in this by-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail
EOG 02-0133
Keeping Records
Supervision
Deﬁ nition
Act under the 
general 
administration 
of the chairman 
and secretory 
of the sabha
Inconsistencies 
between texts
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.