

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
ARAVIND KUMAR FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 197]
————————
Presented by Hon.Velu Kumar, M.P. for Kandy District
on 09th of August, 2017
(Published in the Gazette on June 12, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Aravind Kumar Foundation
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2dp
2-
2—PL 005366—260 (08/2017)
————————

<!-- page 2 -->

Aravind Kumar Foundation  (Incorporation) 1
5
10
15
2—PL 005223—300  (05/2017)
20
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ARAVIND KUMAR FOUNDATION
WHEREAS An Association called and known as the
“Aravind Kumar Foundation” has heretofore been formed
in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Aravind Kumar
Foundation (Incorporation)  Act, No. of 2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Aravind Kumar Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation “) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of “Aravind Kumar
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be –
(a) to participate in social, cultural and economic
development of the country;
Preamble.
Short title.
25
Incorporation
of the
Aravind
Kumar
Foundation.
General
Objects of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Aravind Kumar Foundation  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to advise and assist all communities in Sri lanka to
live in peace and harmony;
(c) to establish information technology centers for the
advancement of scientific studies;
(d) to implement social mobilization programmes and
educational and training programmes for the
development of children and women;
(e) to assist affected people in disaster situations to
uplift their life style and providing legal assistance
for needy vulnerable people;
(f) to grant scholarships to needy school children to
enable them to continue their education;
(g) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or cast;
(h) to promote ethics and culture, create necessary
resources and maintain;
(i) to take necessary steps to promote artistic creations,
sport skills and technical knowledge of school
leavers and set up vocational training centers ; and
(j)  to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions when have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman, Deputy Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and another eleven members elected in
accordance with such rules.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Aravind Kumar Foundation  (Incorporation) 3
5
10
15
20
(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act,
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including to open, operate and close bank accounts,
to borrow or raise moneys with or without security, and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the  carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:-
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b)  procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of  the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointments, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors;and
25
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Aravind Kumar Foundation  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The  Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
or grants for and on account of the corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

Aravind Kumar Foundation  (Incorporation) 5
5
10
15
20
25
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their members.
11. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
maintain proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received
and expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic, or corporate
or of any other person.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Aravind Kumar Foundation  (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .