

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1975
1975
wxl 1"779 - 2012 Tlaf;dan¾ 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'10'05
No. 1,779 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 05, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1978
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1987
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th October, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th
October, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,778 of 28.09.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1976
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1977
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1978
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
V AVUNIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th Nov ember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
12th September, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Vavuniya Vavuniya South Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ The District Secretary/The Additional
Sinhala Kandyan) of Vavuniya South Sinhala Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Division (Sinhala Medium) Vavuniya
Vavuniya Vavuniya South Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
Sinhala Kilakkumoolai South Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General/Kandyan) of Vavuniya
Vavuniya South Sinhala Division (Sinhala
Medium)
Vavuniya Vavuniya South Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The Additional
Sinhala Mamaduva Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General/Kandyan) Vavuniya South Vavuniya
Sinhala Division (Sinhala Medium)
10–147

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1979
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths – Tamil Medium
V A VUNIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th Nov ember,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
12th September, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Vavuniya Vavuniya North Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Malepattu East Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General) of Vavuniya North Vavuniya
Division (Tamil)
10–148
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1980
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th Nov ember,
2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th September, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Panadura Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Henamulla Area in Kalutara and General, District Secretariat, Kalutara
Panadura Thotamuna Division
10–141
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1981
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th Nov ember,
2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th September, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Uyanwatta Area in Galboda Kinigoda General, District Secretariat, Kegalle.
Koralaya Division
10–314
–––––––––––––––––
Notice of Cancellation
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Marriage, Birth and Death
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
THE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling for applications for the post o f Muslim
Marriage Registrar’s of Kegalle District which was published by me in the Part I(IIA) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,723 of 09.09.2011 is cancelled hereby.
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Applications
Division are called
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Additional Muslim Marriage Registrar of Uyanwatta (Devanagala) Area in Galboda
Kinigoda Koralaya Division.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th September, 2012.
10–315

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1982
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :
(a) Technical Engineering Branch,
(b) Logistics Branch,
(c) Air Field Construction Branch,
(d) Medical Branch,
(e) Dental Branch,
(f) Administrative Veterinary Branch,
(g) Administrative Education Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Technical Engineering Branch :
Technical Engineering Officers - Male (Regular)
* Full time four (4) year BSc in Mechanical/Automobile
Engineering from a recognized University or three (3)
year full time National Diploma in Technology (NDT)
in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
Moratuwa or three and half (3 1/2) year full time Higher
National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (HNDE)
from Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education or Four (4) year National Diploma in
Engineering Sciences (NDES) awarded by the National
Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Authority.
Technical Engineering Officers - Male (Volunteer)
* In addition to above Professional Qualifications
minimum of Ten (10) years post qualification experience
in Automobile Engineering field for V olunteer Short
Service Commission.
(b) Logistics Branch :
Mess Managers - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Higher Diploma in Hotel Management or completion of
all 4 levels of full time basic courses and completion of
Intermediate and Advance level in Hospitality industry
Training from a recognized Local/Foreign Institute with
minimum of 2 years post qualification experience in star
Class Hotels in Food and Beverages Departments in
executive capacity.
(c) Air Field Construction Branch :
Material Engineering Officers for Asphalt Plant -
Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* BSc in Material Engineering or BSc Physical Science or
BSc in Civil Engineering with one (1) year post
qualification experience in an Asphalt Plant and having
ability to handle all quality assurance practices related
to the asphalt productions. The candidate should have
thorough knowledge in design of Asphalt mixes and
testing of related material and capability to administrate
multiple site laboratories. Selected candidates will be
Commissioned in the Rank of Flight Lieutenant.
Building Service Engineering Officers - Male
(Regular/Volunteer)
* BSc in Civil/Mechanical Engineering and MSc in
Building Service Engineering with one (1) year post
qualification experience in designing/developing/managing
new technologies related to building services including
air conditioning, water supply, sanitation, public health,
fire protection lift and escalators. Selected candidates
will be Commissioned in the Rank of Squadron Leader.
Civil/Electrical Engineering Officers - Male (Regular)
* BSc in Civil/Electrical Engineering or equivalent
qualification or NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil/Electrical
Engineering or equivalent qualification with three (3)
years post qualification experience or without post
qualification experience.
Architects - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* BSc (BE) and one (1) year on the job training/experience
or B Arch Degree in University of Moratuwa. Selected
candidates will be Commissioned in the Rank of Flight
Lieutenant.
Quantity Surveyors - Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
* BSc in Quantity Surveying conducted by the University
of Moratuwa or Graduate Member of the Institute of
Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka or Technical Member
of the Institute of Quantity Surveyor in Sri Lanka with
three (3) years post qualification experience in the
relevant field ; or
* Technical Member of the Institute of Quantity
Surveyors in Sri Lanka or Successful completion of
National Diploma in Quantity Surveying conducted by
UNIVOTEC Ratmalana with two (2) years post
qualifications experience.
Surveyors - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* BSc Degree in Surveying Science/Degree or Diploma
from ISM Diyathalawa.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1983
(d) Medical Branch :
Medical Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : MBBS or equivalent with full
registration with Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Pre-Intern Trainees  - Male/Female (Volunteer)
* MBBS or Medical degree equivalent to MBBS (Sri
Lanka) from any recognized University of a foreign
country which is accepted by SLMC. They will be
enlisted as V olunteer Commissioned Officer for a period
of 5 years and should qualify the ERPM examination
and SLMC registration within 5 years from the date of
enlistment. The service of the Pre-Intern Trainees who
fail to qualify the above examination will be terminated.
* Selected candidates will be Commissioned in the rank of
Flying Officer. After completion of ERPM examination
and with SLMC registration they will be considered for
the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
(e) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant  : BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Dental Students - Male/Female (Regular) :
* Pilot Officer : Completed 2nd BDS and beginning of
3rd year.
* Flying Officer  : Completed final BDS Part I and
studying in the final year.
Note :
* Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission in the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
* Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka
Air Force until completion of final year. They will also
be Commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with
the SLMC.
* Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
* Dental students to submit a certificate from their
respective Universities about their year of studies.
(f) Administrative V eterinary Branch :
Veterinary Officers - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : Bachelor of Veterinary Sciences from
the University of Peradeniya or equivalent with Sri
Lanka Veterinary Council Registration.
(g) Administrative Education Branch :
English Language Instructors - Male/Female
(Volunteer)
* Three passes at G. C. E. A/L Examination in main subjects
with successful completion of three (3) years Teacher
Training Course as an English Language Teacher at the
“National College of Education” with one (1) year post
qualification experience as an English Language Teacher ;
or
* Three passes at G. C. E. A/L Examination in main subjects
with successful completion of two (2) years Teacher
Training Course as an English Language Teacher at the
Government Teachers Training College of Education with
three (3) years post qualification experience as an English
Language Teacher  ;
or
* A Degree BA/BSc with English Language as a subject or a
Degree B. Ed. (Bachelor of Education) in English or a
Degree BA/BSc in English medium with one (1) year post
qualification experience as an English Language Teacher ;
or
* Bachelor Degree (BA/BSc) and Diploma in Education or
Master Degree (MA/MSc) with English Language as a
subject or Master Degree (MA/MSc) in English medium
with one (1) year post qualification teaching experience as
a professional English Language Teacher.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/Unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : As at 31st October, 2012
(1) For Regular Technical
Engineering, Regular Dental
(Dental Student) and Logistic
branch candidates :18 to 30 years
(2) For Air Field Construction,
Medical, Dental and
Administrative Veterinary
Branch candidates :18 to 35 years
(3) For V olunteer Technical
Engineering and V olunteer
Administrative Education
Branch candidates :18 to 40 years
(e) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
(f) Weight : Body Mass Index should according
to the Physical Efficiency Test
Standards of the Sri Lanka Air Force
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1984
(h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With
or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15( e)(17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer – Rs. 229,200.00 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220.00 - 34 x 7,740 -
Rs. 538,380.00 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660.00 - 28 x 7,740 -
Rs. 538,380.00 p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620.00 - 24 x 7,740 -
Rs. 538,380.00 p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100.00 – 20 x 9,480 -
Rs. 551,700.00 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060.00 – 18 x 12,600 -
Rs. 667,860.00 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920.00 -2x7,740 -
Rs. 329,400.00 p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140.00 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540.00
p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140.00 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140.00
p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680.00 - 12x15,720 -
Rs. 697,320.00 p. a.
(c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Grade II - Rs. 306,180.00 - 4x7,740- 8x7,800 -
Rs. 399,540.00 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140.00 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140.00
p. a.
(d) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental
Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade – Rs. 1,700.00 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700.00 per month
Grade I – Rs. 3,400.00 per month
Specialist Grade – Rs. 3,400.00 per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade – Rs. 2,125.00 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700.00 per month
Grade I – Rs. 400.00 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 15,000.00 per month
(4) Extra duty payments
Preliminary Grade – Rs. 300.00 per hour
Grade II – Rs. 325.00 per hour
Grade I – Rs. 370.00 per hour
Specialist Grade – Rs. 450.00 per hour

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1985
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(e) are to
be calculated separately as applicable.
(e) Service Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,850.00 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per month after
five years of service.
3. Hardlying allowance Rs. 600.00 per month.
4. Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000.00 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
5. Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000.00 per month
(Rs. 100.00 will be paid for each working day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000.00 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255.00 per month.
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 13,861.50 per month (if
permitted to live out).
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Sepcial allowance 15% of consolidated salary.
12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
13. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
15. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
16. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
17. Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,850.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per
month.
18. Service allowance Rs. 300.00, Rs. 400.00, Rs. 500.00
as applicable (Payable to service Medical and Dental
Officers in consideration to the number of complete
years of service).
19. Additional service allowance Rs. 1,500.00 per month
(applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers
only).
20. 1/20 Allowance – Con pay x 1/20 x 3 days (Maximum)
per month (applicable to service Medical and Dental
Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 10th October,
2012 under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked  “Application for
Commission in the ........... Branch” Applications received
after the closing date and not in accordance with the
requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant.
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1986
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal address :–––––––––––.
9. E-mail address :––––––––––.
10. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
11. Height :–––––'––––––".
12. District :–––––––––––.
13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
14. Grama Seva Division and Number :–––––––––––.
15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
16. Civil status :–––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
19. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
20. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
21. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
22. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
23. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
26. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1987
27. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10–325
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment to the Pupil Nurse Training – 2012
APPLICATION are hereby invited from the applicants who have
fulfilled the below mentioned qualification in order to be recruited
into the pupil nurse training under the Ministry of Health.
(Recruitment of the male applicants will be carried out under the
provisions of nurse service minute on the basis of the requirement
that are existed in the Institutes under the Ministry.
01. The applicants will be selected after preparing the Proficiency
list according to the z-score obtained at the G. C. E. A/L Examination
and 30% will be selected on the basis of Island proficiency 70% will
be selected on Provincial Proficiencies the number of trainees who
could be recruited will be based on the vacancies available at the line
Ministry Institutes and the hospitals and institute belong to the
Provincial Council.
When the application are called from the advanced level qualified
applicants on the basis of Z-score they obtained in the several years.
will be selected from the all the qualified candidates in every mentioned
years and it will also be based on the applicants percentage of each
years qualified applicants out of all the qualified applicants in every
mentioned years.
02. This will be full time course. Therefore all the students who
are following the full time course in a University or under the Ministry
of Health or in another government institute or any other full time
course during five days of the week including Saturday morning
should not be applied for this if some one applies with such
circumstances or it was revealed during the training he or she will be
dismissed and all the expenses which are incurred by the government
on behalf of the training should be paid to the government if one
decides to apply this as a full time student of the university the
following guide lines should be followed. The applicants by the
registered applicants in other full time training courses under the
Ministry of Health will be rejected.
2.1 If you had been registered in a university or in another
government institute or had been registered under full
time course in a relevant institute your registration should
be cancelled by the date 28.10.2012. Also if you have a
registration in any university and not attending to the
lectures or not regularily participating thereof your
registration should be cancelled as you are treated like a
university student. Also, you should be ready with the
required particulars in terms of prove this together with
written evidences.
2.2 Also if you had been registered in such an institute he or
she will also be disqualified if they had been registered by
the date on which interviews are conducted as to the date
of 28.10.2012.
2.3 If you have already completed a Degree in any University
the effective date of that degree should be a date on or
before application are undertaken for last time.
Note :–
1. Although condition have been fulfilled from 2.1 to 2.3,
you should be determined that in any part or section of
this Gazette Notification does not mean that you will be
selected to this training programme compulsorily.
2. Even though you have fulfilled the conditions from 2.1 to
2.3 if you have not obtained sufficient Z-score or if you
have not completed any conditions mentioned in this
however you should be aware/informed that you will not
be selected for this courses.
3. You should be further informed that even though you
have obtained sufficient Z-score and have been complete
the other conditions mentioned in this if you have not
mentioned from 2.1 to 2.3 you will not be selected for
these courses.
03. Educational Qualifications :–
(a) Should have passed all the subjects (except the General
Knowledge paper) in science stream such as Biology/

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1988
Mathematics/Agriculture at G . C. E. (A/L) examination
2009, 2010 or 2011 in one sitting ; and
(b) Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in not
more than 02 attempts with six subjects including credits
passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language Mathematics, Science
and English.
Certified copies of the certificates of the above mentioned
examinations should be attached with the application as
to prove the Educational Qualifications.
04. Other qualifications :–
(a) Should be Sri Lankan citizen ;
(b) Should be served at least ten years (10) in the province in
which you are due to be recruited for training followed by
the training period ;
(c) Should not be below 18 and over 28 years of age as at
28.10.2012 ;
(d) Height should not be below 4'10" ;
(e) Should be unmarried ;
(f) Should be preferred to serve in any district and should be
in good health ;
(g) Should have lived in the district from which you are appling
for during three years prior to the closing date of
application and should fulfill at least one below mentioned
condition as to prove the residence :
(i) Should be born in the relevant district ;
(ii) Should be resided in that district at least 3 years within
05 years prior to date mentioned in the Gazette
Notification for this the Grama Niladari certificate
signed by the Divisional Secretary or the register of
voters during last 3 years should be submitted ;
(iii) Should be obtained the secondary school education
continuously in the relevant district for 5 years.
Note.– If any candidate whose father or mother is serving
in a transferable service under the Government,
Provincial Council Service or Co-operation, he/she will
be allowed to select the district as his districts as which
in district mother is born or in which district farther is
born. (Either birth certificate of mother or father should
be submitted.)
05. Method of application :
(a) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen given in this notification by using both sides
of A4 size paper. This should be prepared as including
the sections from No. 01 to No. 09 in page No. 01 and
No. 10 section should be in page No. 02 and page No.
03 should be contained with the sections from No. 11 or
No. 13.
(b) Duly completed applications should be sent on or before
28.10.2012 by the register post to the Provincial Health
Secretary by which province you are resided and on the
top left corner of the envelope should be mentioned as
"Recruitment of the Pupil Nurse training in 2012"
relevant addresses of the each Health Secretaries of each
Provincial Council are given below :
(1) Secretary, Western Provincial Health Ministry,
Independence Square, Colombo 07.
(2) Secretary, Central Provincial Health Ministry, P . O.
Box. 121, Sangaraja Mawatha, Kandy.
(3) Secretary, Uva  Provincial Health Ministry, No. 301,
R. H. Gunawardhena Mawatha, Badulla.
(4) Secretary, Nroth-west Provincial Health Ministry,
3rd Floor, Provincial Council Complex, Kurunegala.
(5) Secretary, North Central Provincial Health Ministry,
Dharmapala Mawatha, Anuradhapura.
(6) Secretary, Southern Provincial Health Ministry,
Lower Dixon Road, Galle.
(7) Secretary, Sabaragamuwa Provincial Health
Ministry, New Town, Ratnapura.
(8) Secretary, Eastern Provincial Health Ministry, Inner
Harbour Road, Trincomalee.
(9) Secretary, Northern Provincial Health
Ministry,Health Village, Pannai, Jaffna.
Applicant's signature should be attested by an
officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service/
Educational Administrative Service/Public
Accountant Service/a Principal of a Government
School/Justice of the peace/Lawyer or by an officer
who is bearing a government post and is being paid
an annual salary not less than Rs. 240,360.
(c) Value of 300 stamps should be affixed in the relevant
cage of the application and they should be cancelled by
placing the signature of the applicant.
06. The application of the employees who are serving in
Government or Semi-government Institute should be sent through
the relevant heads of the Department. If should be noted that this
will be an external recruitment.
07. The qualified applicants as mentioned above will be invited
for an interview on the basis of a priority register that prepared
according to the Z-scores. The interview board will be consisted
with representative of staff officers under the Ministry of Health

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1989
and Provincial Services and originals of the below mentioned
particulars should be submitted at the interview by the applicant :
(a) Birth certificate ;
(b) G . C. E. A/L result sheet and the originals of Z-score result
sheet ;
(Certified copies of these should be attached to the
application form). Original certificate of the G . C. E. O/L
result sheet (Certified copies of these should be attached
to the application form) ;
(c) National Identity Card or passport or valid driving license.
(the certified copy of one of these should be attached with
the application form) ;
(d) The certificate given by the "Grama Niladari" should be
verified by the Divisional Secretary in terms of prove the
residence as per above 4(g).
(either "Grama Niladari" certificate or register of voters
certificate during last three (03) years) ;
(e) An affidavit by a Justice of peace in order to prove as a
bachelor or spinster.
08. Training Procedure :
(a) Selected applicants will be admitted to nurse training
schools as pupils nurses and three (03) years training
programme should be followed by them ;
(b) A set of laws that existed in the nursing school will be
provided to these trainees at the Admission for training
wit. They will be subjected to these laws and to the other
laws that are implemented time to time respectively ;
(c) If he/she fails at the scheduled examinations, if he/she had
not being conducted as a well mannered person or if they
behave unsatisfactorily or if he/she fails to follow the
examination and leave condition or if any detail was
revealed as incorrect mentioned in the application form,
will be terminated from this training without paying any
compensation at any time of the training. The trainees
will not be entitled for any leave during the training period
and equal amount of money will be deducted on during
the training period and equal amount of money will be
deducted on behalf of the absent days during the training.
However 80% attendance will be required for facing to
the examination ;
(d) The allowances will be granted as follows for the trainees’
who are training in a nurse training school :
1. First year :- Rs. 12,920 per month.
2. Second years :- Rs. 13,040 per month.
3. Third years :- Rs. 13,160 per month.
After successful completion of this training at the final
examination. The trainees will be appointed by the
Secretary of Health as staff nurse officers Grade 3 as per
the relevant salary scale on the basis of available vacancies.
(e) If anyone left the training during the training or dismissed
or resigned by the training during the training period the
all the expenses incurred by the government for the
training should be paid by the relevant trainee to the
Department. If not action will be taken to recover this
amount of money.
09. Terms and Agreements on unmarried status :
(a) All the applicant should be unmarried by the date of
applications and should also be remained as unmarried
during the training period. An afidavit signed by the Justice
of Peace should be forwarded to prove the unmaried status
at the interview ;
(b) All the pupil nurses should be signed an agreement with
Director General of Health Services as to agree that to
complete the training programme successfully and to serve
10 years period under the Ministry of Health or in a
hospital under the Provincial Health Ministry. This period
of time will be decided by the Director General of Health
Service time to time.
10. Conditions of recruitment :
(a) The government is not bound to grant permanent
appointment at the end of the Training. However they
will be considered to be appointed at the relevant post
staff nurse officer Grade III on the basis of the conditions
mentioned in the recruitment procedure and on the basis
of available vacancies in the relevant province. It will be
compulsory that serving 10 years at the service station
for which first appointment is granted.
They will be considered to be appointed as mentioned
above on the proficiency register prepared according to
the results of written examination at the end of each
programme and 70% on the provincial levels, 30% on the
all island proficiency will be considered at the
appointments are granted.
(b) The post of staff nurse officer Grade III that granted on
the basis of final results in the above mentioned training
will be a pensionable occupation and the contributions
should be made to the widow/widower and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(c) Appointments will be granted to staff Nurse Officer Grade
III after the 03 years probationary period.
11. Service Conditions :
(a) All the trainees should be appeared for a medical test prior
to the training programme ;
(b) Staff Nurse Officer Grade III will be entitled for the salary
scales Rs. 15,620 - 4x180 -6x240 - 11x320 -20x360 -
Rs. 28,500 as per M. T. 7/2006A of P. A. Circular 6/2006(iv)
and will be appointed to the post of Staff Nurse Officer
Grade III.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1990
(c) All the officers in the nurse service will be subjected to the
provisions of Establishment Code  in the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to the implemented laws
by the Public Service Commission with regard to the
government service, to the regulations and orders, for the
provisions of nurse service minute to the government
Financial Regulations and to the other regulations of the
government, to the circulars, instructions and to the
revisions made upon them frequently.
(d) The information on Education and other qualifications
should be filled in the applications with full of attention
and they should be entered correctly. If any certificate
mentioned above found as incorrect or fraud document the
relevant appointments will be cancelled and also will be
dismissed by the training or by the post. Such incidents
will be forwarded Criminal Investigation Department to
take legal actions. After taking the disciplinary actions
against them their names will be entered into black list that
prevented them for re-employing under the government.
Action will be taken to recover the full amount of money
which incurred by the government for payments and other
expenses by the government during the training period
together with relevant surety mentioned in the surety bond
by him/her.
(e) This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities
within the training schools for the recruited applicants.
(f) During this period no-one is allowed to participate in trade
union actions or serving attached to private services and
they do not have any right there of. If you were appointed
at the relevant post after the training programme further
they will not be allowed to serve attaching to the private
services. Actions will be taken according to the rules and
regulations if such incident is revealed.
(g) Decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health will be
final and exclusive if any complicated situation is arisen on
the circumstances that are not covered by this Gazette
Notification with regard to the training programme. The
Sinhala Language sentences will be effective if any
differences are originated between the Sinhala/Tamil and
English sentences under this Gazette Notification.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
No. 385, Suwasiripaya,
Rev. Baddagama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
17th September, 2012.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
R
ECRUITMENT OF PUPIL NURSES FOR TRAINING – 2012
01. ( a) Last name with initials (In English block letters) :––––––.
(b) Full name (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
02. Postal address (In English) :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent address (In Sinhala) :
(ii) District (In English) :
(iii) Telephone No. :
Mobile :
Residential :
04. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
05. Age as at 28.10.2012 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. Gender : Male
(Put "3" in the appropriate box) Female
07. Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen : Y es
(Put "3" in the appropriate box) No
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. Height :
Feet :–––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––––.
10. (a) G . C. E A/L Examination (Attach the result sheets) :
(i) Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Z-score :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
01. 03.
02. 04.
(b) G . C. E. O/L Examination :
First Attempt :
(i) Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1991
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME  AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of
Grama Niladhari Service-2012
APPLICA TIONS are hereby called from male and female candidates
who have possessed following qualifications to sit for a written
examination held for selecting qualified candidates for appointment
to the post of Grama Niladhari in Grama Niladhari Divisions in
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions all over the Island, where vacancies
are existing.
02. A Candidate can apply for vacancies existing in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division for which the candidate become qualified for
applying as per provisions mentioned in Section 06.
03. Particulars of the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions and the
District to which such Divisional Secretariats belong are given in
Schedule 01.Candidates should indicate the Divisional Secretary’s
Division for which he/she wish to apply and the number of the
Division in the correct place in the application following the
particulars in the Schedule. Candidates are not allowed to change
such particulars at later occasions. No request made regarding any
disadvantage caused to the candidate due to such incorrect entry
will be considered. Further the applications in which the name and
the number of the Divisional Secretary’s Division are not mentioned,
will be rejected.
04. Particulars of the competitive examination :
4.1 Medium of the examination :
This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. Candidates should sit for the examination only
one language medium. Candidates will not be allowed
change language medium applied by them.
4.2 Examination for recruitment of Grama Niladharies will
consist of 02 question papers in the following manner.
Duration Marks
4.2.1 La nguage ability 1  1/2 hours 100
4.2.2 General knowledge and
aptitude 1  1/2hours 100
4.3 Syllabus :
4.3.1 Language Ability.– This paper consists of subject
related questions to test the expression of ideas,
comprehension, spelling, language and writing,
drafting a given letter, preparation of graphs and
tables from given data, summarizing given texts,
expressing the idea of several sentences in a single
sentence and knowledge on using simple grammar.
All questions should be answered.
Second Attempt :
(i) Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
11. Have you ever been convicted in any Court for any offence :
Yes
No
If "Yes" provide details :––––––––––.
12. Certification of the applicant :
(a) I hereby state respectively that the information provided
in the application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I know that I will be dismissed if this statement proved
incorrect/false.
Stamps should be cancelled after affixing stamps to the
value of 300 and by placing the signature on it.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant's.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Certification of the Signature of the Applicant :
I hereby certify that I personally know Mr./Mrs./Miss
................... who submit this application and he/she placed his/her
signature before me on .................. 2012.
–––––––––––––,
Attestor's signature.
Attestor's :
Full name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
10–230

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1992
4.3.2 General Knowledge and aptitude. – This question
paper consists of subjects related questions to test
the general knowledge of the candidate’s including
knowledge of historical, geographical, social,
economic and cultural matters knowledge on current
and local and international current news and
numerical abilities, power of reasoning, problem
solving and decision making. All questions should
be answered.
4.4 When the priority list of successful candidates is prepared
based on the marks obtained at the written examination,
only those who secure a minimum of 40% or more marks
for each subject will be considered.
05.Method of Recruitment :
(i) A number of candidates equivalent to twice the number
of vacancies existing in each Divisional Secretary’s
Division out of those  who have secured highest marks at
the written examination at the level of Divisional
Secretary’s Division will be call for a structured interview.
Candidates who become qualified securing highest marks
on the aggregate marks of both written examination and
structured interview will be selected for a training course
in order to fill the number of vacancies in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division.
(ii) Marks will be allocated at the structured interview
mentioned in Para 5.1 of above in the following manner.
(a)
Titles under which marks Maximum
are allocated marks
Leadership 20
Sports skills (Proficiency in other
language except mother languages) 10
Computer literacy 05
Skills proved at the interview 05
Total 50
(b) For the purpose of allocating marks only the
certificates issued properly by a public institution,
department and letters of confirmation issued by
officers at staff level in departments and institutions
who are responsible to prove the field for which such
certificates are issued. Eg: Divisional Secretary should
confirm the facts such as holding posts in a rural
development committee, sports club and engagement
as a teacher of Daham School etc.
(c) Grama Niladharies are not entitled to exercise political
rights. Therefore, no marks will be allocated for holding
posts in organizations dealing with politics. Eg:
holding posts such as member of a Pradeshiya Sabha/
Urban council, member of a board of director of
Co-operative  societies for which candidates are
selected through political party system.
(iii) The training course of which the duration is three months
will be conducted under the supervision of District
Secretary. Those who are recommended by the District
Secretary as having completed the training course
successfully will be appointed by me to grade III of
Grama Niladhari.  Only an allowance of Rs 3000 will be
paid during the training period and further, the candidates
shall prove at least 80% of attendance during the training
period and they are required to secure 50% of the marks
to pass in the written test conducted under training
program. The period of training shall not be counted for
the period of service but it can be made relevant for the
calculation of pension subject to the provisions of the
Pensions Minute.
(iv) In case where there are several candidates who have
secured the same marks for one or several vacancies, the
final decision  to fill such vacancy or vacancies will be
taken by me.
 06. Qualifications to be satisfied by candidates. – Candidates
should have satisfied at least following  qualifications on or before
the closing date of applications.
6.1. The candidate should have resided at least for three
years within the Divisional Secretary’s Division to
which he seeks to be appointed during the six years
immediately preceding the closing date of applications.
Further, it should be confirmed by one of the followings :
(i) An extract from V oters Registers ;
(ii) A certificate issued by Grama Niladhari and
countersigned by Divisional Secretary.
6.2. Should be not less than 21 years of age and not more
than 30 years of age as at the closing date of
applications.
6.3. Educational qualifications.– Candidates should posses
the following educational qualifications:
            (a) Should have passed the GCE O/L in Six Subjects
with credit passes in 4 subjects at one sitting
including credit passes for one subject from Sinhala/
Tamil as the first language and Mathematics ;
or
(b) Should have passed National Certificate of General
Education in six subjects at one sitting with four
passes at least in Grade "B" for subjects including
for one subject from Sinhala/Tamil as the first
language and Mathematics.
or
(c) Should have passed GCE O/L Examination (Old
Syllabus) in six subjects at one sitting with credit

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1993
passes for at least four subjects Including one
subject out of Arithmetic, Commercial Arithmetic,
Elementary Mathematics or Pure Mathematics and
one subject in Sinhala/Tamil as the first language.
And
 (d) Should have passed all the subjects at the G .C.E.
A/L Examination (Except Common Paper and
English Language Test). It is sufficient to pass in
three subjects under old syllabus.
6.4. Candidates:
(a) Should be either a citizen of Sri Lanka either by
descent or registration.
(b) Should not have been convicted of a criminal offence
at a court and further should be of sound moral
character.
(c) Should not be a person who has been dismissed from
public service, from the service of state corporation
of statutory institutions, vacated the post or a person
who has been sent on retirement due to inefficiency.
(d) Should not be a person declared as bankrupt.
(e) Should not have been ordained in any religious sect.
07. Monthly Salary scale applicable for the post :
Salary scale .– Rs. 13,990-10x145-11x170-6x240 -14x320-
Rs. 23,230.
08. Service conditions :
8.1 Recruitments are made to grade III of Grama
Niladharies’ service.
8.2 The post is permanent and pensionable. Officers are
required to make contributions to Widows/widowers
and orphans’ fund.
8.3 Officers are required to serve in the Divisional
Secretary’s division to which he/she is appointed for
three years from the date of first appointment.
8.4 Officers are entitled to a day- off per week and they
are bound to perform duties within Grama Niladhari
division, to which they are appointed, during 24 hours
on all other days except the day –off.
8.5 An officer appointed to this post is subjected to the
provisions and regulations stipulated in approved
procedure of recruitment, procedural rules of the public
services commission, establishments code and financial
regulations and further to regulations as well as
provisions which have already been stipulated and
which are to be stipulated in future  by the government.
09. Method for sending applications :
9.1 Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen
should be sent to reach “Commissioner General,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri
Lanka Department of Examinations,  Pelawatta,
Battaramulla on or before 02.11.2012. The words
“Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade
III of Grama Niladharies Service - 2012” should be
written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in
which the application is enclosed.
9.2 Applications should be prepared using a paper of size
A4 in accordance with the specimen and cages up to 08
should appear on the first side of the page. Remaining
cages should appear on the other page. The application
may be prepared either by printable writing or it can
be type written but it should strictly be perfected in
the hand writing of the candidate.
9.3 Candidate’s signature in the application form should
have been attested by a Principal of a Government
School, a Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths,
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed
forces, an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police
Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in staff
grade  the Public Service.
9.4 Officers who are already in public service or provincial
public service should send their applications through
the respective Head of Department.
9.5 Examination fee is Rs. 500.  This fee can be paid in the
name of the candidate strictly with relevance to this
examination to any post office, District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue head
2003-12-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examination and the receipt obtained should be affixed
in the relevant cage of the application so as not to be
detached. (number of the receipt, date and the post
office District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat
should clearly be indicated)  Under no circumstances
the examination fee will be refunded and it will not be
allowed to transfer examination fee to any other
examination. It is advisable to keep a photo copy of
the receipt with the candidate.
9.6 Applications which are incomplete and which are not
prepared properly will be rejected without any notice.
Facts such as, preparation of application inconsistent
to the para 9.2, filling of the application with illegible
letters, failure to indicate the Divisional Secretaries
Division and its number to which appointment is
sought, submission of application without the signature
of the candidate, neglecting to paste the receipt obtained

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1994
for the payment of examination fee can be shown as
examples.
10. Candidate will be required to prove his identity at the
examination hall. For this purpose, National Identity Card issued
by the Department of Registration of Persons or valid passport
will only be accepted.
11. All candidates should have a sound understanding on the
rules and regulations of this examination which are published in the
Gazette of the Government and they are bound to follow them.
Candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations stipulated by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. In violation of them,
Candidate will be subjected to   any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
12. Issue of an admission card to a candidate to sit the
competitive examination does not   mean to have accepted that he
possesses all the qualifications for sitting examination. Any
disadvantage caused to the candidate due to incompleteness or
mistakes observed in the application should be born by the
candidate. No requests made in this regard will be considered.
13. The decision on the date on which recruitments are made
based on the number of vacancies existing as at such certain date
will be taken by me. Further, attention of the candidate is drawn to
the fact that the vacancies in certain Divisional Secretariat mentioned
in schedule 1 would have been filled due to annual transfers by such
date determining the above manner. Further it is hereby emphasize
that the candidates who make their applications from such Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions will not be entitled to become eligible for
appointment to the vacancies existing at another Divisional
Secretary’s Division.
14. All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees
and forwarded their applications will be allowed to sit the
competitive examination, by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, without examining the basic qualifications. If it is
found at the interview or at any later occasion that the applicant
does not possess the basic qualifications results of such candidate
will not be treated as a qualification for granting a post. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even
after 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to send a certified photocopy
of the application form and the receipt kept at your possession,
receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside Colombo
letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission
card should be sent, to the Department of Examinations.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala/Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette notification the sinhala text prevails.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
…………………2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
  (For office use only)
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF
GRAMA NILADHARI SERVICE- 2012
01. Name and the Number of the Divisional Secretary’s Division,
which the candidate applies for the appointment :
Name ……………….... Number
(Name and the number of the Divisional Secretary’s Division
should correctly be indicated as mentioned in schedule 1. This
will not be allowed to change subsequently)
02. Name and the number of district to which the Divisional
Secretary’s Division in which,  the applicant seeks appointment
belongs :
Name…………....... Number
( Name and the number of the District should correctly be indicated
as mentioned in schedule 1.)
03. Medium of Examination :
Sinhala   -  2
Tamil     -  3  Language Medium   Number
English  -  4
(Write the medium and number in the relevant cage. This will
not be allowed to change subsequently)
04. 4.1 Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals,, write the initials at the end)
Ex:- SILVA,  A. B
4.2 Name in Full :–––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
4.3 Name in Full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/ Tamil)
05. 5.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
5.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/ Tamil)
06. Sex:
Male 0
Female 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
07. You are a Sri Lankan citizen by :
Decent 1
Registration 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1995
08. 8.1 National Identity Card number :
8.2 Date of Birth :
Year :                           Month :    Date :
8.3 Date birth as at 02.11.2012 :
Years  :       Months :     Days :
09. Name and the number of Grama Niladhari Division of permanent
residence  : ......................
10. Educational Qualifications :
10.1 Particulars of G .C.E. (O/L)/N.C.G. Examination or the
examination from which the officer become qualified
Name of the Examination :–––––––––––.
Year :–––––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
10.2 Particulars of G.C.E. (A/L) or the examination from which
the officer become qualified
Year :–––––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
12. Whether a case has been filed against you at a court or you have
been punished by a court  : Yes/ No
If yes  : (i) Court and the File no. :––––––––––.
(ii) Charge :––––––––––.
(iii) Verdict/ Punishment:––––––––––.
13. Whether you are an officer who served at a government/
provincial council/cooperation/ authority or any other institution
affiliated to government  and were dismissed from the service
on disciplinary grounds/ sent on retirement on inefficiency/ or
vacated the post : Yes/ No (If yes please specify)
14. Certification of the Applicant :
(a) I solemnly declare that the information provided by me in
the application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I honestly declare that I have not submitted any other
application for this examination as per the gazette
notification.
(c) Paid Rs ………………….. as the examination fee
Receipt No. ………………………..District secretariat  /
Divisional secretariat / Post office :……...............……..
Date :…………………………..
(Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached)
(d) I declare that I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner-General of examinations
regarding this examination.
(e) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found
to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment
and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected
after appointment
––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
15. Attestation of the Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..........................................is known
to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence
on …/…/2012.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
16. Applications submitted through Head of the Department :
I certify Mr./Mrs./Miss .........................................,who submit
this application, has been serving in this office since ............................
in the post of………………..and his/her work is satisfactory, and
the afore mentioned particulars are true and correct. Furthermore, I
hereby state that he/she, can/cannot be released from service if
selected.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
(with official stamp)
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1996
SCHEDULE 2
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Colombo 1103
Kolonnawa 1106
Kaduwela 1109
Homagama 1112
Hanwella 1115 Colombo
Padukka 1118
Maharagama 1121 0         1
Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte 1124
Thimbirigasyaya 1127
Dehiwala 1130
Rathmalana 1131
Moratuwa 1133
Kesbewa 1136
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Negambo 1203
Katana 1206
Divulapitiya 1209
Meerigama 1212
Minuwangoda 1215 Gampaha
Wattala 1218
Ja –Ela 1221 0        2
Gampaha 1224
Attanagalla 1227
Dompe 1230
Mahara 1233
Kelaniya 1236
Biyagama 1239
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Panadura 1303
Bandaragama 1306
Horana 1309
Ingiriya 1310
Bulathsinghela 1312 Kalutara
Madurawala 1315
Millaniya 1318 0        3
Kalutara 1321
Beruwala 1324
Dodangoda 1327
Mathugama 1330
Agalawatta 1333
Palindanuwara 1336
Walallawita 1339
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Thumpane 2103
Poojapitiya 2106
Akurana 2109
Pathadumbara 2112
Panwila 2115
Ududumbara 2118
Minipe 2121 Kandy
Medadumbara 2124
Kundasale 2127 0      4
Gangawata Korale 2130
Harispattuwa 2133
Hataraliyadda 2134
Yatinuwara 2136
Udunuwara 2139
Doluwa 2142
Pathahewaheta 2145
Delthota 2148
Udapalatha 2151
Gangaihala Korale 2154
Pasbage Korale 2157
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Galewela 2203
Dambulla 2206
Naula 2209
Pallepola 2212 Matale
Yatawatta 2215
Matale 2218 0     5
Ambangaga Korale 2221
Laggala Pallegama 2224
Wilgamuwa 2227
Raththota 2230
Ukuwela 2233
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Kothmale 2303
Haguranketha 2306 Nuwara Eliya
Walapane 2309
Nuwara Eliya 2312 0      6
Ambagamuwa 2315

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1997
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Benthota 3103
Balapitiya 3106
Karandeniya 3109
Elpitiya 3112
Niyagama 3115
Thawalama 3118
Neluwa 3121 Galle
Nagoda 3124
Baddegama 3127 0     7
Welivitiya Divithura 3130
Ambalangoda 3133
Hikkaduwa 3136
Gravets 3139
Bope Poddala 3142
Akmeemana 3145
Yakkalamulla 3148
Imaduwa 3151
Gonapeenuwala 3154
Habaraduwa 3157
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Pitabeddara 3203
Kotapola 3206
Pasgoda 3209
Mulatiyana 3212
Athuruliya 3215
Akuressa 3218
Welipitiya 3221 Matara
Malimbada 3224
Kamburupitiya 3227 0    8
Hakmana 3230
Kirinda Puhulwella 3233
Thihagoda 3236
Weligama 3239
Matara 3242
Devinuwara 3245
Dikwella 3248
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Sooriyawewa 3303
Lunugamwehera 3306 Hambanthota
Thissamaharama 3309
Hambanthota 3312 0      9
Ambalanthota 3315
Angunakolapelessa 3318
Weeraketiya 3321
Katuwana 3324
Okewela 3327
Beliatta 3330
Tangalle 3333
Walasmulla 3336
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Kayts (Island North) 4103
Chankanei (Walikamum West) 4106
Sandilipay (Walikamum
South-West) 4109
Thelippalei (Walikamum
North) 4112
Uduvil ((Walikamum South) 4115
Kopai (Walikamum East) 4118 Jaffna
Karaweddi ( Wadamarachchi
South West) 4121 1      0
Maruthankerny
(Wadamarachchi East) 4124
Point Pedro (Wadamarachchi
North) 4127
Chawakachcheri
(Thenmarachchi) 4130
Nallur 4133
Jaffna 4136
Velanai (Island South) 4139
Delft 4142
Kareinagar 4145
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Mannar 4203
Manthai West 4206 Mannar
Madu 4209
Nanaddan 4212 1     1
Musali 4215
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Vavuniya North 4303 V avuniya
Vavuniya South 4306
Vavuniya 4309 1      2
Vengalacheddikulam 4312
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1998
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Thunukkai 4403
Manthai East 4406 Mullativu
Pudukuduirippu 4409
Oddusudan 4412 1     3
Maritimepattu 4415
Welioya 4418
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Pachchilaipalli 4503 Kilinochchi
Kandawalai 4506
Karachchi 4509 1    4
Punakari 4512
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Koralepattu North 5103
Koralepattu West
(Oddamawadi) 5106
Koralepattu  (Valaichchenai) 5109
Eravurpattu 5112
Eravurpattu Town 5115
Manmunei North 5118 Batticaloa
Manmunei  West 5121
Kaththankudi 5124 1    5
Manmuneipattu 5127
Manmunei South West 5130
Porativupattu 5133
Manmunei South 5136
Koralepattu South 5139
Koralepattu Central 5142
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Dehiaththakandiya 5203
Padiyathalawa 5206
Maha Oya 5209
Uhana 5212 Ampara
Ampara 5215
Nawindaweli 5216 1     6
Samanthurei 5218
Kalmuna – Tamil 5224
Saindamarudu 5225
Karativu 5227
Nindavur 5230
Addalachchena 5233
Eragama 5234
Akkaraipattu 5236
Alayadivembu 5239
Damana 5242
Thirukkovil 5245
Pothuvil 5248
Lahugala 5251
Kalmuna - Muslim 5254
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Padavi Sri pura 5303
Kuchchaveli 5306
Gomarankadawala 5309
Morawewa 5312 Trincomalee
Town and Gravets 5315
Thambalagamuwa 5318 1     7
Kanthale 5321
Kinniya 5324
Muthur 5327
Seruvila 5330
Verugal/Echchalampattuwa 5333
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Giribawa 6103
Galgamuwa 6106
Ehetuwewa 6109
Ambanpola 6112
Kotawehera 6115
Rasnayakapura 6118
Nikaweratiya 6121
Mahawa 6124 Kurun egala
Polpithigama 6127
Ibbagamuwa 6130 1     8
Ganewatta 6133
Wariyapola 6136
Kobeigane 6139
Bingiriya 6142
Bamunakotuwa 6149
Maspotha 6151
Kurunegala 6154
Mallavapitiya 6157
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
1999
Mawathagama 6160
Rideegama 6163
Weerambugedara 6166
Kuliyapitiya East 6169
Kuliyapitiya West 6172
Udubaddawa 6175
Pannala 6178
Narammala 6181
Alawwa 6184
Polgahawela 6187
Paduwasnuwara East 6190
Paduwasnuwara West 6193
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Kalpitiya 6203
Wanathavilluwa 6206
Karuwalagaswewa 6209
Nawagaththegama 6212
Puttlam 6215
Mundalama 6218 Puttalam
Mahakumbukkadawala 6221
Anamaduwa 6224 1      9
Pallama 6227
Arachchikattuwa 6230
Chilaw 6233
Madampe 6236
Mahawewa 6239
Naththandiya 6242
Wennappuwa 6245
Dankotuwa 6248
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Padaviya 7103
Kebithigollewa 7106
Medawachchiya 7109
Mahawilachchiya 7112 Anuradhapura
Nuwaragampalatha Central 7115
Rambewa 7118 2      0
Kahatagasdigiliya 7121
Horoupathana 7124
Galenbindunuwewa 7127
Mihinthale 7130
Nuwaragampalatha East 7133
Nachchaduwa 7136
Nochchiyagama 7139
Rajanganaya 7142
Thambuttegama 7145
Thalawa 7148
Thirappane 7151
Kekirawa 7154
Palugaswewa 7157
Ipalogama 7160
Galnewa 7163
Palagala 7166
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Higurakgoda 7203
Medirigiriya 7206
Lankapura 7209 Polonnaruwa
Welikanda 7210
Dimbulagala 7212 2     1
Thamankaduwa 7215
Elahera 7218
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Mahiyanganaya 8103
Rideemaliyadda 8106
Meegahakiula 8109
Kandaketiya 8112
Soranathota 8115 Badulla
Passara 8118
Lunugala 8119 2    2
Badulla 8121
Hali Ela 8124
Uwa Paranagama 8127
Welimada 8130
Bandarawela 8133
Ella 8136
Haputhale 8139
Haldummulla 8142
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Bibila 8203
Madulla 8206
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
2000
Medagama 8209
Siyambalanduwa 8212
Monaragala 8215 Monaragala
Badalkumbura 8218
Buttala 8221 2     3
Wellawaya 8224
Kataragama 8227
Thanamalwila 8230
Sewanagala 8233
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Eheliyagoda 9103
Kuruwita 9106
Kiriella 9109 Ratnapura
Rathnapura 9112
Imbulpe 9115 2      4
Balangoda 9118
Opanayake 9121
Pelmadulla 9124
Elapatha 9127
Ayagama 9130
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Kalawana 9133
Niwithigala 9136
Kahawatta 9139
Godakawela 9142
Weligepola 9145
Embilipitiya 9148
Kolonna 9151
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division
Rambukkana 9203
Mawanella 9206
Aranayake 9209
Kegalle 9212 Kegalle
Galigamuwa 9215
Warakapola 9218 2      5
Ruwanwella 9221
Bulathkohupitiya 9224
Yatiyanthota 9227
Dehiovita 9230
Deraniyagala 9233
10-375
Divisional Secretary’ s Number of the Relevant
Division Divisional Number and
Secretary’ s District
Division

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
2001
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2012
2002
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
OCTOBER 05.10.2012 Friday — 21.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
12.10.2012 Friday –– 28.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
19.10.2012 Friday –– 05.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
25.10.2012 Thursday –– 12.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 02.11.2012 Friday — 19.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
09.11.2012 Friday –– 25.10.2012 Thursday 12 noon
16.11.2012 Friday –– 02.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
23.11.2012 Friday –– 09.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.11.2012 Friday –– 16.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 07.12.2012 Friday — 23.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
14.12.2012 Friday –– 30.11.2012 Friday 12 noon
21.12.2012 Friday –– 07.12.2012 Friday 12 noon
28.12.2012 Friday –– 14.12.2012 Friday 12 noon
B. K. S. R AVINDRA,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.