

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 979
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 930 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"226 – 2021 wfm%a,a ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'04'30
No. 2,226  –  fRiday ,  aPRil 30, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st May, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th May, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
927 - B 82226- 5,403 (04/2021)
Note.–  Public Health Emergency Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of  Sri Lanka of april 09, 2021.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
928
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
929
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
930
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Police Constable - Special Task force 
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
direct recruitment for the Post of Probationary Police 
constable of the Sri lanka Police - Special task force. 
2. applications duly prepared according to the specimen 
application form given below should be forwarded to 
the address, director/Recruitment, Police Recruitment 
division, No. 375, first floor, Sri Sambuddhathva Jayanthi 
Mawatha, colombo 06 or commandant Special task force 
Headquarters, colombo 07. the post you are applying for 
should be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope 
in which your application is enclosed and it should be 
forwarded by registered post to reach the above address on or 
before 30.06.2021. late applications will not be considered 
and applications will not be issued by Sri lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale Monthly .–  Rs. 29,540 -7x300 - 27x270 
-  Rs. 41,630.
this salary scale is calculated according to Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016.
Further, these officers are entitled to the allowances 
granted under the inspector General's circular dated 
07.01.2013 bearing No. 2416/2013. they will receive the 
following allowances on a monthly basis in addition to the 
salary scale mentioned above. 
Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) interim allowance 2,500.00
 (c) 40% of the basic salary as allowance 11,816.00
 (d) 33% of the monthly salary 9,748.20
 (e) incentive allowance 1,500.00
 (f) arduous duty allowance 2,000.00
 (g) combined allowance 9,800.00
 (h) other allowances 5,263.20
 (i) Married allowance 300.00
 (j) Uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
in addition to these allowances :
 (a)  free transport facilities.
 (b)  Free Medical facilities for  officers (Financial 
support can be obtained even for getting medical 
treatment abroad).
 (c)  all the uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (d)  facilities to enhance one's sports skills and inborn 
talents
 (e)  Travelling expenses for duties and financial rewards 
for exceptional performance are arduous service
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the Stf 
consequent to the basic training. 
4. Basic Qualifications Required : 
4.1 Age Limit :
 the applicant must be aged between 18 - 25 
years at the time of the closing date of the 
application as per the Gazette notification. 
4.2 Educational Qualifications : 
 Having passed 06 subjects with 04 credit 
passes including a credit pass for the medium 
language at G. c. E. (o/l) examination at 
one and the same sitting. and the applicant 
should have passed the subject, Mathematics 
in not more than two sittings. 
Note:  01.  According to the subject classification 
of the Department of Examinations, two 
Aesthetic Subjects bearing No. 41 and 
44 are considered as a single subject and 
two Aesthetic Subjects bearing No. 42 
and 45 are also considered as a single 
subject when determining the number 
of subjects passed at the examination.
 02.  Despite having passed the practical test 
of the Technological Studies at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination, failing in the written 
test of the same subject is considered as 
having failed the said subject
 03.  Since the subjects, Optional Tamil, 
English and Sinhala are not included in 
G. C. E. (O/L) subject stream, having 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
931
passed those subjects is not considered 
as one of the subjects passed at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination.
4:3 Physical Requirements :
• Height should be 05 feet and 04 inches 
(minimum)
• Chest should be 30 inches (minimum / during 
expiration)
4:3:1  all the applicants should be physically 
and mentally fit to discharge the duties of 
the post and to work anywhere within Sri 
lanka.
4:3:2  Vision Requirements :
 Minimum vision of one eye, without 
wearing spectacles or contact lens, 
should not be less than 6/12. if the vision 
of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other 
eye should be 6/18.
4:3:3 Should not have undergone artificial 
body modifications which might be 
deemed unsuitable for the honour 
of police service or may cause 
obstruction in the execution of duty.
4:4 Other Qualifications :
4:4:1 Should be a citizen of Sri lanka
4:4:2 the applicant should not possess a tarnished 
character
4:4:3 the applicant should be a bachelor 
(divorcees, widows and single parents are 
not qualified to apply)
4:4:4  Should be prepared to work anywhere in 
the country.
4:4:5 Qualifications mentioned in the application 
from 4:1 to  4:2 which are required for 
the post are expected to have been fully 
acquired by the date mentioned in the notice 
inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 are expected to remain the same even 
on the date of recruitment.
5. Preliminary Interview.– only the applicants who meet 
the basic qualifications and age requirement out of those 
who have furnished the applications will be called for the 
preliminary interview. During the interview, qualifications 
mentioned in paragraph 4:3 (except 4:3:2 and 4:3:3) and 4:4 
(except 4:4:2 and 4:4:4) mentioned above will be checked.
the applicants who face the preliminary interview should 
face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers 
appointed by the inspector General of Police.
The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified 
that the applicant is not unfit to face this endurance test 
should be furnished then with the recommendation of a 
doctor registered with Sri lanka Medical council.
Activity Time marks
long distance Running 1000 
meters
Below 03 minutes 30
Between 03 to 04 minutes 20
Between 04 to 05 minutes 10
chin-ups (05 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 03 marks 
for each rep
Push-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Sit-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Squat thrusts (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Kim's Game (Memory test) 30 seconds to observe items, 30 seconds to 
memorize, 120 seconds to write
a maximum of 10 marks with 01 mark 
for each item
Note: Applicants who fail to run a distance of 1000 meters in 05 minutes are considered having failed the 
fitness test and also should obtain more than 60 marks out of 100 as cut off marks.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
932
06. Written examination : the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for the written 
examination. the written examination will be held under the following subjects :
Subjects Maximum marks Qualified marks
01. Comprehension and language proficiency 50
40%
02. General knowledge and i.Q. test 50
0 7. Structured Interview.– only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and Written examination 
will be directed to the structured interview. the Structured interview Board will be appointed by the inspector General of 
Police.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum Mark Cut-Off Mark for Selection
01.additional Educational Qualifications 15
Not applicable
02.Professional Qualifications 15
03. Language proficiency 10
04. Sports skills 20
05. leadership/community services 20
06. Evaluation of the interview board 20
100
08. Method of Recruitment.– the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written Examination 
and Structured interview is listed in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which 
is 125% of the number of vacancies, will be called for the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants 
out of those will be recruited for the post based on the number of available vacancies.
Note:-  Deviating from the above procedural measures, the applicants who possess exceptional sports 
skills on national or international level or have displayed special talents or proficiency in a 
different field may be recruited at the discretion of the appointing authority, disregarding the 
height and chest requirement, if such applicant meets other qualifications.
09. Background Check :
9.1 a  background check will be conducted to check any adverse reports on the applicants based on the 
number of available vacancies and the arrangement of  the aggregate of the marks obtained by each 
applicant for the Written Examination and Structured interview listed in descending order.
9.2 With the intention of getting the applicant's character exposed, background checks will also be carried out 
on the applicant, on his next of kin and on his close companions and applicants with negative background 
check reports will not be recruited.
9.3 Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, 
after the recruitment, that false information had been provided, service will be terminated at any time.
10. Medical Test : only the applicants, who do Not  have negative background report, will be called for Medical test. 
The selected applicants should pass the medical test conducted by the Medical Board headed by the Chief Medical Officer 
of Police Hospital. in addition, a test will be performed on the applicants to check whether they are physically and mentally 
fit to perform police duties. An applicant can take the medical test only once. The medical test will be conducted under 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
933
health 169 form. appeals will not be considered from the 
applicants who disqualify from the medical test.
11. Training :
11.1 Based on the vacancies available, only 
the applicants who have passed the above 
tests will be called for training on a date 
specified by the Inspector General of 
Police. Selected applicants will receive the 
preliminary training at Sri lanka Police 
college. afterwards, they will receive 
extensive training in the respective field during 
the probation period.
11.2 appointing authority will decide whether 
to extend the training period or nullify the 
appointment of the officers who do not 
complete their preliminary training.
12. Nature of Post : Permanent and pensionable (Subject 
to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension 
scheme)
13. Service Conditions :
13.1 Selected applicants should serve a probation 
period/apprenticeship of three years under the 
section 13.3.
13.2 the selected applicants shall act in conformity 
with any orders or circulars already made 
or may hereafter be made to implement the 
Official Language Policy.
13.3 Should abide by the circulars of National Police 
commission, provisions of Establishment code, 
financial Regulations, Public administration 
circulars, treasury circulars, Sri lanka Police 
ordinance, Police Gazette Notification, l.G.P. 
circulars, instruction codes and provisions 
thereof and conditions of the appointment 
letter.
13.4 The probation period shall prevail for first three 
years from the date of appointment and the 
officers are not permitted to consummate the 
marriage during the period. one should enter 
into marriage only as per the instructions given 
in l.G.P. circulars. if getting married during 
probation period, a special permission should 
be obtained from inspector General of Police. 
if this regulation is violated, the appointment 
shall be nullified.
13.5 those who are recruited should serve 
compulsory service period of 5 years after 
completion of training. they should sign a bond 
giving their consent to pay all the stipulated 
expenses, should there be any that had been 
spent for his/her training and other expenses 
including uniforms at the time he is handing 
over the resignation letter in the event of an 
officer intends to resign from the service before 
completion of his compulsory service period. 
Measures will be taken as per the provisions of 
Establishment code and Procedural Rules of 
Public Service commission in relation to the 
resignation.
13.6 When each and every officer of direct 
recruitment is initially appointed to the police 
service, who should provide particulars of all 
their assets, which the officer either has absolute 
ownership to or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General 
form No. 261 (revised) to inspector General of 
Police, to be included in his personal file.
 Officer immediately after the marriage should 
include the above particulars about his spouse 
and submit.
 if a new asset or possession as described in the 
above is acquired, a complete description of 
the said asset or possession should be given in 
writing to the inspector General of Police to be 
included in the personal file. 
13.7 Probationary Police constables should 
subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect 
that they comply with the constitution of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, 
as soon as they start the training at Sri lanka 
Police college or Special task force training 
School at Katukurunda.
14. Confirmation in service : after the completion of 
probation period of 03 years, directly recruited officers will 
be confirmed in service by the appointing authority. if an 
officer fails to meet the requirements of the First Efficiency 
Bar within probation period, the officer will be confirmed in 
service after deciding the seniority as per Procedural Rules 
considering the additional time spent after the prescribed 
period.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
934
However, appointments of officers who could not meet the requirement of the first efficiency bar within a period of 
additional 03 years will be nullified unless decided by the appointing authority to confirm the service or to extend the 
probation period.
15 Efficiency Bars: Efficiency bar examinations should be passed as follows.
The type of Efficiency Bar Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency
Bar Written examination/ Professional
Examination/ Certificate Course/ Other
First Efficiency Bar 
Examination (Examination 
for Confirmation of Service]
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police constable Written, Practical, and oral
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police Sergeant
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
Third Efficiency
Bar Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police Sergeant 
Major
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
16.  Language Proficiency :
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official Language Officers recruited through a medium that is not an official language should obtain the 
proficiency for the relevant official language within the probationary period.
Other Official language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and consequent circulars
17. (a) General conditions releva nt to the appointment to posts of the public service that have been published in the 
beginning of paragraph (ii a) of Part i of this Gazette notification will be applicable.
18. applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (original documents 
should not be submitted)
(a) Birth Certificate
(b) a  photocopy of the National identity card
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications
19. (a) applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant Heads 
of Department. Those applications should accompany a certificate indicating that the applicant can be released if selected.
(b) applications should be completed in applicant's own handwriting on 11" x 8" papers and should be sent along with 
the relevant copies of the certificates to the address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application should not be 
handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.
20. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notification will be rejected. Replies will not be sent to 
such applicants in that regard.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
935
Note:- Travelling or any other expense will not 
be paid by the Sri Lanka Police to the 
applicants who are called for interviews and 
examinations.
 
C. D. WiCkramaratne,
 inspector General of Police. 
   
   (For office use only)
   size 2"x21/2"
SRi laNKa PolicE 
Post of Probationary PoliCe Constable - sPeCial task 
forCe
sPeCimen aPPliCation form
01.  (a) Name in full   :––––––––––.
   (in clear and legible handwriting) Should be  
  exactly as mentioned in the Nic)
  (b) Name (with initials) :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (a copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat of the relevant birth place :                     
––––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Relevant Police Station of present address :––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Relevant Police Station of permanent address :                  
––––––––––.
  (e) Mailing address :––––––––––.
  (f) Grama Niladari's division of permanent address 
:––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (g) t elephone No. :
   Home :––––––––––.
   Mobile :––––––––––.
  (h) E-mail address :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b)  Whether you are a Sri lankan citizen by descent or  
  by registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration, kindly produce that certificate)
  (c)  if you became a citizen by descent, mention the  
  birth places of :–
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant's paternal grand father :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant's paternal great grand father :––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. 
 (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of this Gazette Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Should mention the 
examinations passed and the copies of the relevant 
certificates should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Marital Status :––––––––––.
11.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed forces ? :––––––.
12. Have you ever served in Sri lanka Police ? :–––––––––.
 Post and Rank No. :––––––––––.
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the 
post :––––––––––.
13. (a) are you currently serving in an armed force ? if 
yes, the application should be forwarded through 
the Commanding Officer of the respective force 
:––––––––––.
 (b) Have you ever served in armed forces ? if yes, 
please attach a copy of the certificate of legal 
discharge :––––––––––.
14. (a) are you attached to V olunteer armed forces ? if 
yes, application should be forwarded through the 
commanding Officer of the respective force :                
––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
936
 (b) Have you been attached to V olunteer armed 
forces ? if yes, please attach a copy of the 
certificate of legal discharge : ––––––––––.
15. Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in 
connection with any offence ? Have you every been 
accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a 
court ? (if yes, please provide the details) :––––––––––.
16. Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion 
or in connection with any offence ? Has anyone ever 
been accused of an offence or summoned or punished 
by a court ? (if yes, please provide the details) :                         
––––––––––.
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained 
herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in the 
Police Service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be 
terminated without any compensation. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
17. Certificate of the Head of  the Department  :
 (only if relevant) :
i, hereby declare that Mr. ......................... forwarding this 
application is serving in the department/corporation/Board 
of ....................... and that he can be released for the new post 
if he/she is selected for this post. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and stamp of the 
 Head of the department
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
04–835/2
––––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Police Constable Driver - Special Task 
force 
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
for the Post of Probationary Police constable drivers of  Sri 
lanka Police - Special task force. 
2. applications duly prepared according to the specimen 
application form given below should be forwarded to 
the address, director/Recruitment, Police Recruitment 
division, No. 375, first floor, Sri Sambuddhathva Jayanthi 
Mawatha, colombo 06 or commadant Special task force 
Headquarters, colombo 07. the post you are applying for 
should be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope 
in which your application is enclosed and it should be 
forwarded by registered post to reach the above address on or 
before 30.06.2021. late applications will not be considered 
and applications will not be issued by Sri lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 29,540 -7x300 - 27x270 -                              
Rs. 41,630.
this salary scale is calculated according to Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016.
Further, these officers are entitled to the allowances 
granted under the inspector General's circular dated 
07.01.2013 bearing No. 2416/2013. they will receive the 
following allowances on a monthly basis in addition to the 
salary scale mentioned above. 
Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) interim allowance 2,500.00
 (c) 40% of the basic salary as allowance 11,816.00
 (d) 33% of the monthly salary 9,748.00
 (e) incentive allowance 1,500.00
 (f) arduous duty allowance 2,000.00
 (g) combined allowance 9,800.00
 (h) other allowances 5,263.20
 (i) Married allowance 300.00
 (j) Uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
in addition to these allowances :
 (a)  free transport facilities.
 (b)  Free Medical facilities for  officers (Financial 
support can be obtained even for getting medical 
treatment abroad).
 (c)  all the uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (d)  facilities to enhance one's sports skills and inborn 
talents

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
937
 (e)  Travelling expenses for duties and financial rewards 
for exceptional performance are arduous service
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the Stf 
consequent to the basic training. 
4. Basic Qualifications Required : 
4.1 Age Limit :
 the applicant must be aged between 18 - 28 
years at the time of the closing date of the 
application as per the Gazette notification. 
4.2 Educational Qualifications : 
 Having passed 06 subjects including, 
Medium language and Mathematics with 
credit passes for 02 subjects at the G. c. 
E. (o/l) examination in not more than two 
sittings.
Note:  01.  According to the subject classification 
of the Department of Examinations, two 
Aesthetic Subjects bearing No. 41 and 
44 are considered as a single subject and 
two Aesthetic Subjects bearing No. 42 
and 45 are also considered as a single 
subject when determining the number 
of subjects passed at the examination.
 02.  Despite having passed the practical test 
of the Technological Studies at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination, failing in the written 
test of the same subject is considered as 
having failed the said subject
4:3 Professional Qualifications  :
Having obtained a valid driving license for driving 
light vehicles and heavy vehicles.
Note 01 : Priority will be given for the knowledge of 
Motor Mechanism or experience in repairing 
motor vehicles or long term experience in 
driving. 
4:4 Physical Requirements :
• Height should be 05 feet and 02 inches 
(minimum) ;
• Chest should be 30 inches (minimum / during 
expiration).
4:4:1  all the applicants should be physically 
and mentally fit to discharge the duties of 
the post and to work anywhere within Sri 
lanka.
4:4:2  Vision Requirements :
 Minimum vision of one eye, without 
wearing spectacles or contact lens, 
should not be less than 6/12. if the vision 
of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other 
eye should be 6/18.
4:4:3 Should not have undergone artificial 
body modifications which might be 
deemed unsuitable for the honour 
of police service or may cause 
obstruction in the execution of duty.
4:5 Other Qualifications :
4:5:1 Should be a citizen of Sri lanka
4:5:2 the applicant should not possess a tarnished 
character
4:5:3 the applicant should be a bachelor 
(divorcees, widowers,  are not qualified to 
apply)
4:5:4  Should be prepared to work anywhere in 
the country.
4:5:5 Qualifications mentioned in the application 
from 4:1 to  4:2 which are required for 
the post are expected to have been fully 
acquired by the date mentioned in the notice 
inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 and 4.5 are expected to remain the 
same even on the date of recruitment.
05. Preliminary Interview.– only the applicants who meet 
the qualifications and age requirement out of those who have 
furnished the applications will be called for the preliminary 
interview. During the interview, qualifications mentioned in 
paragraph 4:1 and 4:4 (except 4:4:2 and 4:4:3) mentioned 
above will be checked.
the applicants who face the preliminary interview 
should face the endurance test conducted by a board of 
officers appointed by the Inspector General of Police. The 
form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified that 
the applicant is not unfit to face this endurance test should 
be furnished then with the recommendation of a doctor 
registered with Sri lanka Medical council.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
938
all the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for fitness test and applicants who run 
a distance of 1,000 meters in 05 minutes are considered having passed the fitness test.
06. Professional examination : applicants who get through from the preliminary examination will be called for 
professional examination. Professional examination will be held under the following subjects.
Subjects Maximum marks Pass marks  
01. Written 40         20
                                 50%
        3002. Practical 60
0 7. Structured Interview.– only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and Professional 
examination will be directed to the structured interview. the Structured interview Board will be appointed by the inspector 
General of Police.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum Mark Cut-Off Mark for Selection
01.additional Educational Qualifications 20
Not applicable
02. Technical knowledge/Language Proficiency/Computer 
literacy/other 20
03. Sports skills 20
04. leadership/community services 20
05. Evaluation of the interview board 20
Total 100
08. Method of Recruitment.– the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Professional Examination 
and Structured interview is listed in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, applicants, will be called for 
the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants out of those will be recruited for the post based on the 
number of available vacancies.
Note:-  Deviating from the above procedural measures, the applicants who possess exceptional sports 
skills on National or International level or have displayed special talents or proficiency in a 
different field may be recruited at the discretion of the appointing authority, disregarding the 
height and requirement, if such applicant meets other qualifications.
09. Background Check :
9.1 A background check will be conducted to confirm the good character of those who fulfilled required 
qualifications for recruitment in accordance to the para 08 above. 
9.2 With the intention of getting the applicant's character exposed, background checks will also be carried out 
on the applicant, on his next of kin and on her close companions and applicants with negative background 
check reports will not be recruited.
9.3 Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, 
after the recruitment, that false information had been provided, service will be terminated at any time.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
939
10. Medical Test : only the applicants, who do Not  
have negative background report, will be called for Medical 
test. the selected applicants should pass the medical test 
conducted by the Medical Board headed by the chief 
Medical Officer of Police Hospital. In addition, a test will 
be performed on the applicants to check whether they are 
physically and mentally fit to perform police duties. An 
applicant can take the medical test only once. the medical 
test will be conducted under health 169 form. appeals will 
not be considered from the applicants who disqualify from 
the medical test.
11. Training :
11.1 Based on the vacancies available, only 
the applicants who have passed the above 
tests will be called for training on a date 
specified by the Inspector General of 
Police. Selected applicants will receive the 
preliminary training at Sri lanka Police 
college. afterwards, they will receive 
extensive training in the field during the 
probation period.
11.2 appointing authority will decide whether 
to extend the training period or nullify the 
appointment of the officers who do not 
complete their preliminary training.
12. Nature of Post : Permanent and pensionable (Subject 
to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension 
scheme).
13. Service Conditions :
13.1 Selected applicants should serve a probation 
period of three years under the Section 13.3.
13.2 the selected applicants shall act in conformity 
with any orders or circulars already made 
or may hereafter be made to implement the 
Official Language Policy.
13.3 Should abide by the terms of National Police 
commission, provisions of Establishment 
code, Procedural Rules, financial Regulations, 
Public administration circulars, treasury 
circulars, Sri lanka Police ordinance, 
Police Gazette Notification, l.G.P. Circulars, 
instruction codes and provisions thereof and 
conditions of the appointment letter.
13.4 The probation period shall prevail for first three 
years from the date of appointment and the 
officers are not permitted to consummate the 
marriage during the period. one should enter 
into marriage only as per the instructions given 
in l.G.P. circulars. if getting married during 
probation period, a special permission should 
be obtained from inspector General of Police. 
if this regulation is violated, the appointment 
shall be nullified.
13.5 If an officer intends to resign from the service 
measures will be taken as per the provisions of 
Establishment code and Procedural Rules of 
Public Service commission in relation to the 
resignation. 
13.6 When each and every officer of direct 
recruitment is initially appointed to the police 
service, who should provide particulars of all 
their assets, which the officer either has absolute 
ownership to or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General 
form No. 261 (revised) to inspector General of 
Police, to be included in his personal file.
 Officer immediately after the marriage should 
include the above particulars about his spouse 
and submit.
 if a new asset or possession as described in the 
above is acquired, a complete description of 
the said asset or possession should be given in 
writing to the inspector General of Police to be 
included in the personal file. 
13.7 Probationary Police constables drivers should 
subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect 
that they comply with the constitution of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, 
as soon as they start the training at Sri lanka 
Police college. 
14. Confirmation in service : after the completion of 
probation period of 03 years, directly recruited officers will 
be confirmed in service by the appointing authority. if an 
officer fails to meet the requirements of the First Efficiency 
Bar within probation period, the officer will be confirmed in 
service after deciding the seniority as per Procedural Rules 
considering the additional time spent after the prescribed 
period.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
940
However, appointments of officers who could not meet the requirement of the first efficiency bar within a period of 
additional 03 years will be nullified unless decided by the appointing authority to confirm the service or to extend the 
probation period.
15. Efficiency Bars: Efficiency bar examinations should be passed as follows :-
The type of Efficiency Bar Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency
Bar Written examination/ Professional
Examination/ Certificate Course/ Other
First Efficiency Bar 
Examination (Examination 
for Confirmation of Service]
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police constable 
driver
Written, Practical, and oral
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police Sergeant 
driver
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
Third Efficiency
Bar Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police Sergeant 
Major driver
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
Fourth Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completing 03 years of Sub 
inspector (transport)
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
16.  Language Proficiency :
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official Language Officers who have joined through English medium should obtain relevant level of 
language proficiency as per Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and other 
circulars consequent to that.
Other Official language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and consequent circulars
17. (a) General conditions relevant to the appointment to posts of the Public Service that have been published in the 
beginning of paragraph (ii a) of Part i of this Gazette notification will be applicable.
18. applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (original documents 
should not be submitted).
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) a  photocopy of the National identity card,
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications.
19.  (a)  applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant Heads 
of Department. Those applications should accompany a certificate indicating that the applicant can be released 
if selected.
 (b)  applications should be completed in applicant's own handwriting on 11" x 8" papers and should be sent along 
with the relevant copies of the certificates to the address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application 
should not be handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
941
20. applications that do not conform to the requirements 
of this notification will be rejected. Replies will not be sent 
to such applicants in that regard.
Note:- Travelling or any other expense will not 
be paid by the Sri Lanka Police to the 
applicants who are called for interviews and 
examinations.
 C. 
D. WiCkramaratne,
 inspector General of Police. 
   
   For office use only
   size 2"x21/2"
SRi laNKa PolicE 
Post of Probationary PoliCe Constable Driver - sPeCial 
task forCe
sPeCimen aPPliCation form
01.  (a) Name in full   :––––––––––.
   (in clear and legible handwriting) Should be  
  exactly as mentioned in the Nic)
  (b) Name (with initials) :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (a copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father's full name :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat of the relevant birth place :                     
––––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Relevant Police Station of present address :––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Relevant Police Station of permanent address :                  
––––––––––.
  (e) Mailing address :––––––––––.
  (f) Grama Niladari division of permanent address : 
––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (g) t elephone No. :
   Home :––––––––––.
   Mobile :––––––––––.
  (h) E-mail address :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b)  Whether you are a Sri lankan citizen by descent or  
  by registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration, kindly produce that certificate)
  (c)  if you became  a  citizen  by  descent,  mention the  
  birth places of,
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant's paternal great grand ather :–––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. 
 (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age : (as at the closing date of this Gazette Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Should mention the 
examinations passed and the copies of the relevant 
certificates should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Marital Status :––––––––––.
11.  (a) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (b) are you a member of any armed forces ? :––––––.
12. Have you ever served in Sri lanka Police ? :–––––––––.
 Post and Rank No. :––––––––––.
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the 
post :––––––––––.
13. (a) are you currently serving in an armed force ? if 
yes, the application should be forwarded through 
the Commanding Officer of the respective force 
:––––––––––.
 (b) Have you ever served in armed forces ? if yes, 
please attach a copy of the certificate of legal 
discharge :––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
942
14. (a) are you attached to V olunteer armed forces ? if 
yes, application should be forwarded through the 
Commanding Officer of the respective force :                
––––––––––.
 (b) Have you been attached to V olunteer armed forces 
? If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of 
legal discharge : ––––––––––.
15. Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in 
connection with any offence ? Have you every been 
accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a 
court ? (if yes, please provide the details) :––––––––––.
16. Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion 
or in connection with any offence ? Has anyone ever 
been accused of an offence or summoned or punished 
by a court ? (if yes, please provide the details) :––––––.
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained 
herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in the 
Police Service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be 
terminated without any compensation. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
17. Certificate of the Head of  the Department  :
 (only if relevant) :
i, hereby declare that Mr. ......................... forwarding this 
application is serving in the department/corporation/Board 
of ....................... and that he can be released for the new post 
if he/she is selected for this post. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and stamp of the 
 Head of the department
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
04–835/3
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Sub Inspector of Police (Special 
Task force)
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
direct recruitment for the Post of Probationary Sub inspector 
of Police - Spectial task force in the Sri lanka Police.
2. applications forms duly perfected in accordance 
with the specimen form given below should be sent to/
Director/Recruitment, Recruiting Office, No. 375, 1st Floor, 
Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, colombo 06, or 
commandant, Special task force Headquarters, No. 223, 
Bhaudaloka Mawatha, colombo 07. the application should 
be sent by the Registered Post to the above address to reach 
on or before 30.06.2021 and the post applied for should be 
marked in the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. delayed applications will not be entertained 
and no applications will be issued by the Sri lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale (Monthly).–  Rs. 32,790 -7x370 - 2x495 
-25x660  - Rs. 52,870.
as per the Public administration circular 3-2016, the 
above mentioned salary scale will be effect.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above salary 
scale, they will be paid following allowances :
Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) incentive allowance 2,500.00
 (c) 40% of the basic salary as allowance 13,116.00
 (d) 33% allowance of basic salary 10,820.70
 (e) Encouragement allowance 1,500.00
 (f) combined allowance 12,000.00
 (g) other allowances 6,123.20
 (h) arduous duty allowance 2,000.00
 (i) Married allowance 300.00
 (j) Uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
in addition to these allowances :
 (a)  free transport facilities.
 (b)  Free Medical facilities to officers (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country).

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
943
 (c)  all uniforms will be provided f ree of charge.
 (d)  facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
 (e)  travelling expenses are provided to undertake 
duties and money will be granted as rewards for 
outstanding and arduous duties. 
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the Stf 
consequent to the basic training. 
4. Basic Qualifications Required : 
4.1 Age Limit :
 the age should be between 18 and 26 years as 
at closing date of the applications as per the 
Gazette Notification . However Police officers 
currently serving in the Sri lanka Police are 
eligible to apply up to the age of 28 at the 
closing date of applications.
4.2 Educational Qualifications : 
 Should have passed 06 subjects in the                        
G. c. E. (o/l) Examination in one sitting 
with 04 credit passes including Mathematics 
and Medium language ; and 
 Should have passed 03 subjects in the                         
G. c. E. (a/l) Examination in one sitting. 
Note:  01   The subjects passed at the G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination is determined as per 
the subject classification of Department 
of Examination i-e Science subject 
combination of subject number 41 & 44 
is considered as one subject and maths 
subject combination of subject number 
42 and 45 as one subject.
Note : 02   If the written test of Technical subject at 
the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination is failed, 
it is considered as the Technical subject 
is failed even though the practical test of 
the same subject is passed. 
Note : 03   Since optional Tamil, English and 
Sinhala subjects are not included in 
the stream of G. C. E. (O/L) syllabus, 
passes in any of these subjects will not 
be accounted as passed subjects at the 
G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
4:3 Physical Requirements :
• Height 05 feet 06 inches (minimum)
• Chest  32 inches minimum (in exhalation)
4:3:1  all the applicants should be physically 
and mentally fit to discharge the duties of 
the post and to work anywhere within Sri 
lanka.
4:3:2  Vision Requirements :
 Minimum vision of one eye, without 
wearing spectacles or contact lens, 
should not be less than 6/12. if the vision 
of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other 
eye should be 6/18.
4:3:3 Should not have undergone artificial 
body modifications which might be 
deemed unsuitable for the honour 
of police service or may cause 
obstruction in the execution of duty.
4:4 Other Qualifications :
4:4:1 Should be a citizen of Sri lanka
4:4:2 the applicant should not possess a tarnished 
character
4:4:3 applicants should be unmarried (divorcees 
will be considered as unsuitable). only 
this condition will not apply for the Police 
Officers presently serving in the Sri Lanka 
Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 
4:4:4  Should be prepared to work anywhere in 
the country.
4:4:5 Qualifications mentioned in the application 
from 4:1 to  4:2 which are required for 
the post are expected to have been fully 
acquired by the date mentioned in the notice 
inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 are expected to remain the same even 
on the date of recruitment.
5. Preliminary Interview.– only the applicants who meet 
the basic qualifications and age requirement out of those 
who have furnished the applications will be called for the 
preliminary interview. During the interview, qualifications 
mentioned in paragraph 4:3 (except 4:3:2 and 4:3:3) and 4:4 
(except 4:4:2 and 4:4:4) mentioned above will be checked.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
944
The applicants who face the preliminary interview should face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers 
appointed by the Inspector General of Police. The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified that the applicant is fit 
to face this endurance test should be furnished then with the recommendation of a doctor registered with Sri lanka Medical 
council.
Activity Time Marks
long distance Running 1000 
meters
Below 03 minutes 30
Between 03 to 04 minutes 20
Between 04 to 05 minutes 10
chin-ups (05 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 03 marks 
for each rep
Push-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Sit-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Squat thrusts (15 reps) 01 minute a maximum of 15 marks with 01 mark 
for each rep
Kim's Game (Memory test) 30 seconds to observe items, 30 seconds to 
memorize, 120 seconds to write
a maximum of 10 marks with 01 mark 
for each item
Note: Applicants who fail to run a distance of 1000 meters in 05 minutes are considered having failed the 
fitness test and also should obtain more than 60 marks out of 100 as cut off marks.
 * Testing on self-confidence (endurance test)
 *testing on starting - energy and responding
06. Written examination : the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for the written 
examination. the written examination will be held under the following subjects.
Subjects Maximum marks Time Qualified marks
01. Comprehension and language proficiency 40 45 Min.
40%
02. General knowledge and i.Q. test 60 01 hr.
0 7. Structured Interview.– only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and Written examination 
will be directed to the structured interview. the Structured interview Board will be appointed by the inspector General of 
Police.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum Mark
01.additional Educational Qualifications 15
02.Professional Qualifications 15
03. Language proficiency 10
04. Sports skills 20
05. leadership/community services 20
06. Evaluation of the interview board 20
total 100

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
945
08. Method of Recruitment.– the aggregate of the marks 
obtained by each applicant for the Written Examination and 
Structured interview is listed in descending order. Based on 
the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which 
is 125% of the number of vacancies, will be called for the 
Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified 
applicants out of those will be recruited for the post based on 
the number of available vacancies.
Note:-  Deviating from the above procedural 
measures, the applicants who possess 
exceptional sports skills on national or 
international level or have displayed special 
talents or proficiency in a different field 
may be recruited at the discretion of the 
appointing authority, disregarding the height 
and chest requirement, if such applicant 
meets other qualifications.
09. Background Check :
9.1 a  background check will be conducted to 
check any adverse reports on the applicants 
based on the number of available vacancies and 
the arrangement of  the aggregate of the marks 
obtained by each applicant for the Written 
Examination and Structured interview listed in 
descending order.
9.2 With the intention of getting the applicant's 
character exposed, background checks will also 
be carried out on the applicant, on his next of 
kin and on his close companions and applicants 
with negative background check reports will 
not be recruited.
9.3 Providing false information during recruitment 
by applicants will result in disqualification. If 
it is revealed, after the recruitment, that false 
information had been provided, service will be 
terminated at any time.
10. Medical Test : only the applicants, who do Not  
have negative background report, will be called for Medical 
test. the selected applicants should pass the medical test 
conducted by the Medical Board headed by the chief 
Medical Officer of Police Hospital. In addition, a test will 
be performed on the applicants to check whether they are 
physically and mentally fit to perform police duties. An 
applicant can take the medical test only once. the medical 
test will be conducted under health 169 form. appeals will 
not be considered from the applicants who disqualify from 
the medical test.
11. Training :
11.1 Based on the vacancies available, only 
the applicants who have passed the above 
tests will be called for training on a date 
specified by the Inspector General of 
Police. Selected applicants will receive the 
preliminary training at Sri lanka Police 
college. afterwards, they will receive 
extensive training in the respective field during 
the probation period.
11.2 appointing authority will decide whether 
to extend the training period or nullify the 
appointment of the officers who do not 
complete their preliminary training.
12. Nature of Post : Permanent and pensionable (Subject 
to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension 
scheme)
13. Service Conditions :
13.1 Selected applicants should serve a probation 
period/apprenticeship of three years under the 
section 13.3.
13.2 the selected applicants shall act in conformity 
with any orders or circulars already made 
or may hereafter be made to implement the 
Official Language Policy.
13.3 Should abide by the circulars of National Police 
commission, provisions of Establishment code, 
financial Regulations, Public administration 
circulars, treasury circulars, Sri lanka Police 
ordinance, Police Gazette Notification, l.G.P. 
circulars, instruction codes and provisions 
thereof and conditions of the appointment 
letter.
13.4 The probation period shall prevail for first three 
years from the date of appointment and the 
officers are not permitted to consummate the 
marriage during the period. one should enter 
into marriage only as per the instructions given 
in l.G.P. circulars. if getting married during 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
946
probation period, a special permission should be obtained from inspector General of Police. if this regulation 
is violated, the appointment shall be nullified.
13.5 those who are recruited should serve compulsory service period of 5 years after completion of training. they 
should sign a bond giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses, should there be any that had been 
spent for his training and other expenses including uniforms at the time he is handing over the resignation letter 
in the event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his compulsory service period. 
Measures will be taken as per the provisions of Establishment code and Procedural Rules of Public Service 
commission in relation to the resignation.
13.6 When each and every officer of direct recruitment is initially appointed to the police service, who should 
provide particulars of all their assets, which the officer either has absolute ownership to or retains title to or has 
been transferred to and all the liabilities in General form No. 261 (revised) to inspector General of Police, to be 
included in his personal file. Officer immediately after the marriage should include the above particulars about 
his spouse and submit.
 if a new asset or possession as described in the above is acquired, a complete description of the said asset or 
possession should be given in writing to the Inspector General of Police to be included in the personal file. 
13.7 Probationary Sub Inspector of Police should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with 
the constitution of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, as soon as they start the training at Sri lanka 
Police college or Special task force training School at Katukurunda.
14. Confirmation in service : After the completion of probation period of 03 years, directly recruited officers will be 
confirmed in service by the appointing authority. If an officer fails to meet the requirements of the First Efficiency Bar within 
probation period, the officer will be confirmed in service after deciding the seniority as per Procedural Rules considering the 
additional time spent after the prescribed period.
However, appointments of officers who could not meet the requirement of the first efficiency bar within a period of 
additional 03 years will be nullified unless decided by the appointing authority to confirm the service or to extend the 
probation period.
15 Efficiency Bars: Efficiency bar examinations should be passed as follows.
The type of Efficiency Bar Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency
Bar Written examination/ Professional
Examination/ Certificate Course/ Other
First Efficiency Bar 
Examination (Examination 
for Confirmation of Service]
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Sub inspector of 
Police
Written, Practical, and oral
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police inspector
Successful completion of the orientation 
training
Third Efficiency
Bar Examination
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Police chief 
inspector
Successful completion of the orientation 
training

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
947
16. Language Proficiency :
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official 
language
Officers recruited through a medium 
that is not an official language 
should obtain the proficiency for the 
relevant official language within the 
probationary period.
other 
Official 
language
Should obtain the relevant level 
of proficiency as per the Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 
and consequent circulars
17. (a) General conditions relevant to the appointment
to posts of the public service that have been published in 
the beginning of paragraph ( ii a) of Part i of this Gazette 
notification will be applicable.
18. applicants should send the copies of the following
documents attached to their applications. ( original 
documents should not be submitted)
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) a  photocopy of the National identity card,
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications.
19. (a) applicants who are already in the public service
should forward their applications through the relevant Heads 
of department. those applications should accompany a 
certificate indicating that the applicant can be released if 
selected.
(b)
applications should be completed in applicant's own
handwriting on 11" x 8" papers and should be sent along 
with the relevant copies of the certificates to the address 
mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application 
should not be handed over personally to any officer under 
any circumstances.
20.
applications that do not conform to the requirements
of this notification will be rejected. Replies will not be sent 
to such applicants in that regard.
Note:- Travelling or any other expense will not 
be paid by the Sri Lanka Police to the 
applicants who are called for interviews and 
examinations.
C. D. WiCkramaratne,
 inspector General of Police. 
(For office use)
SRi laNKa PolicE 
Post of Probation sub insPeCtor of PoliCe - sPeCial task 
forCe
sPeCimen aPPliCation form
01. (a) Name in full (in block letters)  :––––––––––.
 (As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
(copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth belongs 
:––––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. (a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs
:–––––––––.
(c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
(d) Police Station to which the permanent address
belongs  :––––––––––.
(e) Grama Niladari's division to which permanent
address belongs :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(g) telephone No. :
Residence  :––––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
(h) E-mail address :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
 (b) Whether you are a Sri lankan citizen by birth or
registration :–––––––––.
(If by registration, attach a copy of that certificate)
(c) if you a citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
(i) applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) applicant's paternal grand father :––––––––.
(iv) applicant's paternal great grand father :––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
948
07. date of Birth :––––––––––.
(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age :––––––––––.
(as at the closing date of applications as per the Gazette
Notification) :
 years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Mention the examinations
passed and the copies of the certificates should be
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates
should be attached) :––––––––––.
11. c ivil Status :––––––––––.
12. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) are you a member of any armed forces ? :––––––.
13. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications ? :––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees to
inquire about the applicant :
(i) ......................................
(ii) ......................................
15. Have you served in the Sri lanka Police Service before ?
(if so, what are the reasons for leaving the service ? Give
details) :––––––––––.
16. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? ( if so,
your application  must be forwarded through the 
respective service commander :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in an armed service ? (if so attach 
a copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
17. (a) are you serving in a V olunteer armed Service ? (if
so, your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service commander) :––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in a V olunteer armed Service ?
(if so, attach a copy of your discharge certificate) :
––––––––––.
18. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or
brought before the court or punished (if so give details)
:––––––––––.
19. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of
having committed an offence or convicted or brought
before the court or punished. ( if so give details)                             
:––––––––––.
i hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, i 
am aware that i am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri lanka Police at any time even though i 
have been appointed to the post. 
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certificate of the Head of  the Department  :
(if applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss...................... 
is serving in ............................... the department corporation/ 
Board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the 
 department with the designation seal.
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
04–835/1
–––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  AIR  fORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies
1. V aca NciES exist in the Sri lanka Regular air force
for Officer Cadets (Male/Female) in the following branches.
(a) General duties Pilot Branch (Male)
(b) technical Engineering Branch (Male/ female)
(c) Electronics Engineering Branch (Male)

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
949
 (d) logistics Branch (Male/ female)
 (e) administrative Branch (Male/ female)
 (f) administrative Regiment Branch (Male/ female)
 (g) Operations Air Branch (Air Traffic Controller) 
(Male)
 (h) Provost Branch (Male)
 (j) administrative Band Branch (Male)
2. applications are invited from Male / female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below.
3. SPEcific QUalificatioNS (dEGREE 
PRoGRaMME) : BSc (a viation Studies) degree Entrant 
Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir John 
Kotelawala defence University). further candidates who are 
applying for the degree programme are to indicate whether 
they have qualified and applied for University admission 
when indicating a/l results in the application form.
(a) General Duties Pilot / Operations Air 
 (Air Traffic Controller) Branches
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/l) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language in one sitting and Simple (S) passes in 
three subjects at the GcE (a/l) examination in 
Physical Science / Bio Science in one sitting.
(b) Technical (Aeronautical) Engineering / 
Electronics Engineering branches
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/l) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / 
tamil language in one sitting and two credit (c) 
passes and one Simple (S) passes in three subjects 
at the GcE (a/l) examination in Physical Science 
(combined Maths, Physics and chemistry) Streams 
in one sitting.
(c) Logistics/Administrative/ Administrative 
Regiment / Provost branches
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/l) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language in one sitting and Simple (S) passes in 
three subjects at the GcE (a/l) examination in 
Physical / Bio Science / commerce / technology 
/ arts Streams in one sitting. (candidates over 
height of 5' 8'' (Male) will have an advantage when 
enlisting to Provost Branch)
(d) Administrative band branch
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/l) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language and Western Music as an aesthetic subject 
in one sitting and should have passed three subjects 
at the GcE (a/l) examination in arts stream 
including   credit (c) pass for Western Music / 
oriental Music in one sitting or candidates with 
three Simple (S) passes in any other stream should 
have passed Grade five of any Internationally 
recognized institution (trinity, Royal, lcM or any 
other) or three years or more experience in western 
brass bands/ western cadet bands.
4. Special Note: Pearson / Edexcel - international ordinary 
/ advance level, GcSE, GcE and cambridge exam 
qualification may be considered subjected to a confirmation 
obtained from the department of Examination, Sri lanka, 
to effect that it is equalant to above basic educational 
qualifications.
5. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri lanka 
Regular air force.
(a) Nationality :-  Must be a citizen of Sri lanka
(b) age :-  Not less than 18 years and not 
   more than 23 years as at 01
st
   September 2021
(c) Height :-  Male - 167.5cm (5' 6") and above  
  female - 162.5cm (5' 4") and above
(d) Weight :-  Male - 17 < BMi < 26     
  female - 17 < BMi < 25                 
    Weight (Kg)  BMi =  ––––––––––
    Height (m)2
(e) chest :- Male - 32'' (Minimum)
(f) colour :- cP2
 Vision 
 Standard

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
950
(g) Visual Acuity :- left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6  
  (Without spectacles / contact   
  lens)
(h) Civil Status :- candidates must be unmarried. No 
cadet will be permitted to marry whilst under 
training and for a further period of one (1) year 
from the date of commissioning.
6. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of Para 3 and 5 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be 
measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight are 
below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and 
who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
8. Any candidate who has special skill/qualifications 
may at the discretion of the commander of the air force be 
considered, even though he / she does not have any of above 
pre-requisites, provided that he/she possess the requisite of 
the Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest 
of the Sri lanka air force.
9. Conditions of Service :
(a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air force 
as an Officer Cadet on a regular engagement in the 
same manner as for other Ranks and will undergo 
a Basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the Branch, the status allocated on his / 
her enlistment as an Officer Cadet will lapse and 
will receive a Permanent commission in the rank 
of Pilot Officer.
(b) Officer Cadets will be required to undergo training 
at a place in Sri lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the air force in consultation with 
the Ministry of defence.
(c) During the period of training as Officer Cadets and 
thereafter, personnel will be subjected to air force 
law.
(d) Every Officer Cadet will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
(e) during the period of training, an Officer Cadet will 
be accommodated in an air force Mess and will be 
provided with food.
(f) In the event of an Officer Cadet voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature for a commission 
during training, the parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the Republic of Sri lanka all 
expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic 
of Sri Lanka on account of such Officer Cadet.
(g) If at any time during his / her course an Officer 
cadet is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his / her control to qualify for a 
commission, his / her parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the Sri lanka air force all 
expenses incurred on his / her training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with the 
commander of the air force acting on behalf of 
the Government of Sri lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 34 of the application form in respect of sub 
paragraphs (f) and (g) above, and forward them 
together with the application. Parent or guardian 
will be required to enter in to a bond subsequently 
in this form with the Republic of Sri lanka prior 
to the appointment of these candidates as Officer 
cadets.
(j) candidates who possess the requirement as per para 
3 and 5 will be called for the Preliminary interview 
based on their preference of three Branches and if 
successful will be called for Medical Examinations. 
all candidates selected will be medically examined 
under Sri lanka air force arrangements to check 
the suitability in par with the Sri lanka air force 
Medical fitness standards. A separate extensive 
medical examination called ‘aircrew Medicals’ 
will be conducted for General duties Pilot Branch 
candidates who are successful in the Preliminary 
interview. candidates who hide any history of 
sicknesses, injuries or faile d to declare medicines 
prescribed for particular sickness will be rejected 
at any time of the interview process.
(k) all the Branch candidates who passed medical 
examination will be called for the Officer Quality 
Tests. After completion of Officer Quality Test 
the General duties Pilots Branch candidates, if 
successful will be called for the flying aptitude 
tests. thereafter, if successful all the candidates 
will be called for a familiarization training 
programme at Sri lanka air force training 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
951
establishments as applicable and required 
candidates who successfully complete these 
tests will be called for the final interview. the 
required number of candidates per Branch and list 
of stand-by candidates to face the final interview 
will be selected according to the merit list and the 
final order of merit will be prepared after these 
interviews and tests.
(l) Prior to attend flying aptitude test, the General 
duties Pilot Branch candidates will be given an 
option, if unsuccessful at the test, to leave the 
interview process or to join any Branch offered 
by the Sri lanka air force as per the vacancies 
available and marks obtained up to Officer Quality 
test with other candidates who originally applied 
for that particular Branch. candidates who are 
unsuccessful at flying aptitude test will not be 
considered to reapply for General duties Pilot 
Branch in future.
(m) Candidates who attend final interviews are required 
to declare their final decision to join the Sri Lanka 
air force at the interview board or just after it, 
in order to be given an opportunity to candidates 
at the Stand-by list. Candidates who passed final 
interview and failed to inform their inability to 
join Sri Lanka Air Force and absent at the final 
enlistment will not be considered for any future 
reapply attempt to the Sri lanka air force.
(n) candidates who show poor performance and do 
not possess right attitude, ethical behaviour, self-
conduct, at any level of the interview process will 
be subjected to rejection.
(p) A single Officer is required to live in the Officers’ 
Mess. He/ She is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. Batman service will be 
provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and 
batman allowance are paid to the Officers’ Mess.
(q) A married Officer may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants.
(r) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
(s) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and 
orders issued from time to time.
10. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the language Policy of the Republic of Sri lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
language act, No. 33 of 1956.
11. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at 
present, and same revision completes in year 
2021, followings are the amounts payable in 2021. 
further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries 
indicated below are the initial step of particular 
grade.
Year 2021
(Annual) Rs.Rank
Officer Cadets 388,560.00
Pilot Officer 
(cadet)
463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non 
cadet)
502,860.00
Flying Officer 571,380.00 - (30x16020) 
= 1,051,980.00
flight lieutenant 667,500.00 – (24x16020) 
= 1,051,980.00
Squadron leader 731,580.00 – (22x16020) 
= 1,084,020.00
Wing commander 751,140.00 - (17x19560) 
= 1,083,660.00
(b) Other Allowances :
 (1) cost of living allowance of Rs. 7800/- per 
month.
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250/- per month 
after five years of service.
 (3) Hard allowance Rs.620/- Per month.
 (4) additional Hard allowance Rs. 4380/- per 
month for those serving in operational areas.
 (5) Special allowance Rs. 3,100/- per month.
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000/- per month.
 (7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs.525.00 per 
month.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
952
 (8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50/- per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 (9) Ration allowance Rs. 24005.47 per month (if 
permitted to live out Rs.774.37 per day).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) Rent allowance for married Officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
- Pilot Officer to Squadron Leader and above 
Rs.3,200.00 to Rs. 8,500.00 per month)
 (12) telephone bill allowance. Wing commander 
to air Vice Marshal Rs.2,500.00 to                                   
Rs. 5,000.00 per month.
 (13) three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (For Officer, spouse & children).
 (14) an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living 
in Messes to travel from the Mess to the 
hometown once a month.
 (15) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (16) free medical facilities (including for families 
if applicable).
 (17) Married Officers permitted to live - out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.
 (18) flying pay will be paid for those who are in 
the General duties Pilot Branch.
 (19) Engineering allowances Rs.15,000.00 per 
month. (Applicable to Engineering Officers 
only)
12. Pensions/Gratuities. Payable in terms of the air force 
Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from 
time to time. All Officers are contributors to the Widows 
and orphans Pension (armed force) Scheme. Rate of 
contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension 
(armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
13. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) applications should be submitted in applicant’s 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
completed neatly with as much details as possible. 
applications should be forwarded under registered 
post cover to: “coMMaNd REcRUitiNG 
officER, SRi laNKa  aiR foRcE tRadE 
tRaiNiNG ScHool, KotUGoda” so as 
to reach   him not later than 1200 noon on 15
th 
May 21 the envelope enclosing the application 
should be marked “aPPlicatioN foR MalE 
cadEtSHiP / lady  cadEtSHiP iN tHE 
SRi laNKa aiR foRcE”. a candidate will be 
allowed to apply for three Branches as per the order 
of preference/choice in one application.  He/she 
will be called up on to the preliminary interview 
of most suitable Branch where qualifications 
are matched. in case if fails at the preliminary 
interview of first choice he/she will be called upon 
to interviews of other Branches indicated as decided 
by the  commander of the air force based on the 
vacancies available. final decision on calling for 
interviews for any Branch out of three choices is 
as per the discretion of the commander of the air 
force. applications received after the  closing date 
and not in accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will not 
be entertained. 
(b) candidates who are in Government Service / 
corporations / Boards / civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
Heads of department / corporations / Boards / 
Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected.
(c) application could be downloaded from the                      
www.slaf.lk website.
(d) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the following 
documents when summoned for interviews or when 
called upon to do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a photo 
copy. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the 
education code will not be accepted).
 (2) National identity card and a photo copy.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photo copies (Rubber 
Stamp is required for the certificate issued by 
department of Examination or by School)

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
953
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized 
institution and photo copies.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character (within 
06 months obtained). one of these should be 
from the Principal of the last school attended 
and the other from a responsible person who 
has knowledge of the applicant for more than 
two years or from the present employer (if 
employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
photo copies.
 (7) A Grama Niladhaari certificate issued within 
six months.
 (8) School leaving certificate.
 (9) A plain folder with file tag.
 (10) Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified by 
the Grama Niladari.
(e) only the copies of the originals should be sent 
along with the applications under registered cover 
and only the scanned copies of the certificates in 
Pdf version should be attached when submitting 
online application.
(f)  applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(g) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(h) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
(j) candidates will be called for the Preliminary 
interview based on the basic requirements such 
as, educational qualifications, Height, Age, Chest 
etc. provided in the respective application form and 
candidates who provided wrong information will 
be rejected at the preliminary checks.
14. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
15. Selection Interviews :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. 
candidates who selected will be required to 
undergo tests as may be prescribed by the 
Commander of the Air Force. The final selection 
will then be made after an interview of those 
selected candidates by a selection board appointed 
by the Ministry of defence.
(b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date of 
such interviews. travelling or other expenses will 
not be paid in this respect.
(c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
(d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo written, practical and Officer Quality Test 
during the selection process.
(e) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a medical screening test as per Sri lanka 
air force Medical Standard during the selection 
process.
(f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his / her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
(g) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
 SK 
Pathirana,
 WWV and Bar, RWP and Bar, RSP and three 
 Bars, VSV , USP, MSc (Moa) USa, MSc (def 
 Stu) in Mgt, M Phil (ind), MiM (Sl), ndc (ind),  
 psc, qfi
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri lanka air force, 
Po Box 594,
colombo 02.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
954
Official use only
aPPlicatioN foR officER cadEt / lady officER cadEt VacaNciES 
(dEGREE PRoGRaMME) iN tHE SRi laNKa aiR foRcE
Branch Preferences:
1. 2. 3.
01.  Nationality: ..........................................................................................................................................................................
 (State whether citizen of Sri lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card): ..................................................................................................................
   .............................................................................................................................................................................................
03. National identity card Number: ..........................................................................................................................................
04. Permanent address: ..............................................................................................................................................................
05. Postal address: ......................................................................................................................................................................
06. date of birth :-
 (01 st September 2021) years:………………  Months:………………  days:………………
07. Height: - …………cm   (………..feet ...........................inches)
08. chest: .........................cm
09. Weight: ............................ Kg
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address:  .....................................................................................................................
11. Nearest air force camp to permanent address: ...................................................................................................................
12. district: ................................................................................................................................................................................
13. Electorate: - ..........................................................................................................................................................................
14. Grama Niladhari division:  ..................................................................................................................................................
15. telephone number:...................................        Email:.....................................
16. Married or Single: ................................................................................................................................................................
17. Gender: .................................................................................................................................................................................
18. Schools attended:-  Primary : ..............................................................................................................................................
   Secondary : ..........................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
955
19. Particulars of School qualifications obtained:-
Name of School Type of examination
Year and Index 
number of the
examination
Subjects passed (including grading)
ordinary level
advanced level
(to mention whether 
qualified or not to apply 
for University admission) General English
yes No common General test
other/Professional
qualifications
20. Any special qualification for the post: .................................................................................................................................
21. Particulars of employment since leaving School: - (if applicable)
Name and address of  employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
22. Particulars of family:-
Name with Initials NIC No. Occupation Present address
Past Present
father:
Mother:
Siblings
23. details of blood relatives who are serving present or previously served in Sri lanka air force.
Rank Name Branch/Trade Present State
24. details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and 
standards / levels achieved):-
S/No. Description School Provincial National International

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
956
25. other achievements of note at School or with outside 
organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.):.........
  .........................................................................................
26. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps Scouting organization: ....................
  .........................................................................................
27. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri lanka air force 
or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications: .............................
  .........................................................................................
28.  if so, did you attend the flying aptitude test conducted 
for General Duties Piolot branch Officer Cadets at Air 
force academy china-bay :  ............................................
29. Please indicate the year/Month you attended the flying 
aptitude test and results of the test.
  (a) year: ......................... Month: ............................
 (b) Results:  Passed / failed
30. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, or any pending criminal or civil court 
cases against you? if so give details: ................................
  .........................................................................................
31. if earlier employed in a Government department or in 
the Public Sector / Board / corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc) reasons 
for termination of employment: 
32. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
33. declaration to be signed by the applicant:- i declare on 
my honour that answers given to the above questions 
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in 
the Sri lanka air force published in the Gazette of the 
Republic of Sri lanka.
date…………..…… …………………..
 Signature of applicant.
34.  declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of 
the applicant:
(a) i am the Parent / Guardian of…………………... 
who is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri lanka 
air force and who has signed the declaration in 
cage 33 of the form of application above.
(b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following :
(1) t o refund to the Republic of Sri lanka in 
the event of the above named applicant 
voluntarily terminating his / her candidature 
for a commission during his / her period of 
training all expenses incurred up to that time 
by the Republic of Sri lanka on account of 
such applicant.
(2) t o refund to the Republic of Sri lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by the authorities as being unsuitable 
(for reasons of misconduct or due to causes 
within his / her own control) for the issue of a 
commission all the expenses incurred on his / 
her account by the Republic of Sri lanka.
 ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of Parent /Guardian.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
                   
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of first Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Second Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
04–875

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
957
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR / vOLuNTEER AIR 
fORCE
Airmen / Airwomen vacancies
V acaNciES exist in the Regular / V olunteer force of the Sri 
lanka air force for airmen / airwomen in the trades given 
below and the required minimum and specific qualifications 
are stated against.
Basic Education Qualifications
2. Six (06) Passes at the GcE (o/l) Examination from 
not more than two sittings, including a Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala or tamil and English language. 
Specific Qualifications
3. The specific qualifications as per the Trade are as 
follows :
(a) Aeronautical Engineering Trades (male/ 
female) – Regular 
           
 (1) air frame technician
 (2) aircraft Engine technician
 (3) aircraft Electrical & instrument technician
 (4) aircraft Safety Equipment technician
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / tamil, Mathematics, Science 
and English language. a credit (c) pass for 
Mathematics / Science is essential.
 and
 Priority will be given to aircraft Electrical & 
instrument technician has successful completion 
of two year fulltime National Certificate Course in 
Engineering craft Practice (Electronics / Electrical) 
at a technical college recognized by the Ministry 
of V ocational and technical training or equivalent.
(b) General Engineering Trades (male) - Regular
(1) armament Mechanic
(2) Motor transport Mechanic
(3) Surface technician
(4) Sheet Metal Worker 
(5) tech Wood
(6) General Mechanic
(7) aircraft Welder
(8) air Photographer technician
(9) turner
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination 
at not more than two sittings  including Simple 
(S)  passes in Sinhala / tamil, English languages, 
Mathematics and  Science. a credit (c) pass for 
Mathematics / Science will be an added qualification. 
Possession of NVQ Level qualification/Technical 
college certificate and work experience in relevant 
fields is an added advantage.  
(c) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering 
Trades - Regular 
 (1) air Radio technician (Male/ female)
 (2) telecommunication technician (Male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / tamil, and English languages, 
Mathematics and Science. a credit (c) pass for 
Mathematics / Science is essential.
 (3) air communicator  (Male/ female)
 (4) telephonist (Male /female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
pass in Sinhala / tamil and English languages. 
(d) medical Trades (male / female) – Regular
(1) Nursing Assistant (Male / Female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) pass in English language 
and credit (c) passes in Sinhala / tamil/ 
Mathematics/ Science and one other subject. 
Having following passes at the GcE (a/l) 
Examination from Science /Maths Stream 
in one sitting will be added advantage for 
selection and a qualification for advance 
training under Ministry of Health services 
mentioned therein.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
958
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/l) examination 
with Simple 03 passes for biology / Combined maths / 
Agriculture streams in GcE (a/l) examination in one sitting.
- Nursing diploma (Male/ female)
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/l) examination 
with two Simple passes from biology/Combined maths/ 
Physics/ Agri Science and credit pass for Chemistry in GcE 
(a/l) examination in one sitting.
- Pharmacist (Male)
- Medical laboratory technologist (Male/female)
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/l) examination with 
two Simple passes from Chemistry, Physics / Agri Science 
and credit pass for biology in GcE (a/l) examination in one 
sitting.
- EcG /EEt (Male/ female)
  EEG technician (Male)
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/l) examination 
with two Simple passes for Chemistry, biology/ Combined 
maths and credit pass for Physics in GcE (a/l) examination 
in one sitting.
-   X Ray technician (Male)
   Physiotherapist (Male/ female)
   ophthalmic tech (Male)
Having Simple (S) pass for English in GcE (o/l) examination 
two Simple passes from Chemistry, Physics/ Agri Science 
and credit pass for biology/ Combined maths in GcE (a/l) 
examination in one sitting.
- afHi (Male)
   
(e) Dental Assistant (male/ female) - Regular
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination at not more than two sittings including Simple (S)  pass in 
English language and credit passes in Sinhala / tamil language, Mathematics, Science and one other subject. 
Having three passes at the GcE (a/l) Examination from Bio Streams/ Physical Science Streams /t echnology 
Streams  in one sitting will be added advantage for selection and a qualification for advance training under Ministry 
of Health services.
  
(f) Administrative Trades (male / female) - Regular
(1) Administrative Assistant
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination at not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes 
in Sinhala / Tamil, English languages and Mathematics. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) 
will be an added qualification.
(2) Accounts Assistant 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination at not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / tamil and English languages and a credit in Mathematics / Business & account Studies. 
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will be an added qualification.
 (g)  Operations Trades (male) - Regular
(1) Operations Air 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination at not more than two sittings including an Simple (S)  pass 
in Sinhala / tamil language and a credit pass in English language.
(2) Fire Fighter
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination at not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes 
in Sinhala / Tamil and English languages.  A valid heavy vehicle driving license will be an added qualification.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
959
(3) Operations Ground
Passes in 06 subjects at the G cE ( o/l)
Examination at not more than two sittings
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil
language.
(4) Ops Agro
Passes in 06 subjects at the G cE ( o/l)
Examination at not more than two sittings
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil
language.
 Special preference to be given for personnel 
with agricultural skills and special technical 
skills. the personnel with special agricultural 
and technical skills will be selected for the 
trade of agro assist.
(h) Logistic Trades - Regular
(1) l ogistic assistant - Male/female
(2) a viation fuel Quality controller - Male
 Passes in 06 subjects at the G cE ( o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages and a credit in 
Mathematics / Science / Business & account 
Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft 
Office package) will be an added qualification.
(3)
 c atering assistance - Male
 Passes in 06 subjects at the G cE ( o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / 
tamil 
and English languages.
(4) Ground Steward - Male/female
Passes in 06 subjects at the G cE ( o/l)
Examination at not more than two sittings
including a Simple (S) pass in Sinhala /
tamil and English language. Priority will
be given to candidates who have experience
and professional qualification in the field of
hospitality at 
tourist Board authorized Hotels
(Ex: Waiter / Barman / House Keeper / Room 
Boy / Room attendance / Room Steward)
(j) Police (male /female) - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings including 
Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / tamil , Mathematics 
and English languages. Priority will be given to 
male and female candidates those who measured 5’ 
8” and 5’ 6” or above in height respectively.
(k) Dancer (female) - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings including 
an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil and English 
language. ability of indigenous and western playing 
of musical instrument or singing or dancing. 
Suitable figure for dancing, ability for folk singing, 
playing dancing instrument, announcement, Sound 
controller and capability for 
make-up will be 
considered as special qualification. All candidates 
who are selected though preliminary interviews are 
required to pass the practical test.
(l) Physical Training Instructor (Male) - Regular 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the G cE ( o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings including 
an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil and English 
language. National level sports will be special 
qualification at selection. All candidates who are 
selected though preliminary interviews are required 
to pass the special physical fitness test.
(m) Civil Engineering Trades (Male) - Regular
(1) Mechanical technician
(2) construction Equipment technician
(3) Electrical technician
(4)  air condition and Refrigeration Mechanic  
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings  including 
a Simple (S) p ass in Sinhala / tamil, Math ematics/ 
Science and English language. Possession of NVQ 
Level qualification/ Technical college certificate 
and work experience  in relevant fields is an added 
advantage. 

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
960
VacaNciES EXiSt  iN tHE SRi laNKa  REGUlaR/ 
VolUNtEER aiR foRcE foR aiRMEN/aiRWoMEN 
iN tHE tRadES aRE GiVEN BEloW aS diREct  
ENtRy
4. Trades & Educational, Professional Qualifications 
Required:-
(a) General Engineering Trades - (male) – volunteer
 (1) Motor transport Mechanic 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including a Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil, 
Mathematics, Science and English language. 
credit pass for Mathematic or Science and passed 
GcE a/l Bio/Physical Science or technological 
streams is considered as a special qualification, 
and one of the following;
  full time course more than one year or part 
time course more than two years in automobile 
Mechanic / automobile Electrician / automobile 
air conditioning Mechanic / Motor cycle / three 
Wheeler Mechanic or any other automobile 
related course at government institution or 
government registered private institution with 
two years or more post qualified experience in 
relevant field in a reputed organization or;
  full time course more than six months or part 
time course more than one year  in automobile 
Mechanic / automobile Electrician / automobile 
air conditioning Mechanic / Motor cycle / 
three Wheeler Mechanic or automobile related 
course at government institution or government 
registered private institution with three or more 
years post qualified experience in relevant field 
in a reputed organization or;
  NVQ level III or above qualification in 
automobile Mechanic / automobile Electrician / 
automobile air conditioning Mechanic / Motor 
cycle / three Wheeler Mechanic or automobile 
related field with post qualified experience in 
reputed organization as mentioned below:
 i. NVQ level iii – minimum three years
 ii. NVQ level iV and above - minimum two 
years
(b) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering 
Trades (male) - Regular
 (1) air Radio technician 
 (2) telecommunication technician 
   
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two Sittings 
including Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / tamil, 
English languages, Mathematics and Science. 
a credit pass for Mathematics / Science is 
essential.
and
 Successful completion of two year fulltime 
National Certificate Course in Engineering Craft 
Practice (Electronics / telecommunications) at 
a technical college recognized by the Ministry 
of V ocational and Technical Training. Certificate 
equivalent to National V ocational Qualification 
level iV (NVQ level iV) will be considered as 
an additional qualification.
(c) Civil Engineering Trades (male) - Regular
(1) Draughtsman
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two  sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / tamil 
and English languages.
  Successful completion of National Certificate 
in Engineering draughtsmanship – the 
candidates who possess the one year certificate 
(full time) in Engineering draughtsmanship. 
Two years working experience in relevant field. 
(2) Forman (Civil/Electrical/Mechanical)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / tamil 
and English languages.
  Successful completion of National Certificate 
in technology Nct  (civil/Electrical/
Mechanical Engineering) the candidates who 
possess the three - year part time NCT certificate 
or any other equivalent qualifications awarded 
by Government technical colleges. two years 
working experience in relevant field. 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
961
(d)  Administrative Trades (male) - Regular
(1) Audit Assistant 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages. Simple (S) passes 
in three subjects at the GcE (a/l) examination 
in commerce Stream ;
    
    with
 Passed intermediate level (Stage ii) of 
association of accounting technician (aat) of 
Sri lanka or completion of second year of High 
National diploma in accounting (HNda) of 
Sri lanka institute of advanced technological 
Education (SliatE) or High National diploma 
in Business finance (HNdBf) ;
    
    and
 Experience in the relevant field will be added 
advantage. 
(e) Admin Education (Pre-school Teacher) – 
(female) - volunteer
 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/l) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including Sinhala / tamil 
and English language. diploma from a Government 
recognized institute in Pre-school teaching with 
minimum of one year post qualification experience 
as a Pre-school teacher. Strong communication 
skills in English Language and fluency in Aesthetic 
Subject (Singing, instrument Playing, dancing and 
Art) would be an added qualification.
5.  Other Requirements : - 
(a) Candidates must fulfil the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri lanka  
Regular/ V olunteer air force: -
(1) Nationality - Must be a citizen of Sri lanka.
(2)  age as at 01 September 2021 
 Regular
Male -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 24 years 
female - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 23 years 
 direct Entry (Regular/ V olunteer)
Male - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 28 years 
female - Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 26 years
(3) Height -:   5 feet 5 inches (165 cm) and above 
(Male)
  5 feet 3 inches (160.2 cm) and 
above (female)
(4) Weight : -  17 < BMi < 26 (Male)
   17 < BMi < 25 (female)
                                     Weight (Kg)
   Body Mass index = ––––––––––
                                    Height
2 (m)
(5) Vision colour Standard : cP2
(6) Visual acuity: 6/6 each eye (without spectacles 
and lens)
(7) chest: 32'' (Male)
(8) civil Status:  Regular Unmarried
   direct Entry/ V olunteer - 
   Married/ Unmarried
(a) Regular airmen / airwomen candidates 
must be unmarried and not allowed to 
marry until the completion of four years 
from the date of enlistment 
(b) the airmen / airwomen who enlisted 
above 25 years they are eligible for 
marriage after 01 year period from the date 
of enlistment
  
(c) direct Entry airmen / airwomen are not 
allowed to marry until the 01 year period 
from the date of enlistment
(d) dancer trade airwomen are not allowed 
to marry until the completion of five (5) 
years from the date of enlistment. 
6. candidates who do not possess the required educational 
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 03 
to 05 will be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview 
the height, weight, chest and vision will be measured.  
candidates whose height, weight, chest and vision are below 

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
962
the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who 
have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. any 
candidate who has special ability / qualifications may at the 
discretion of the commander of the air force be considered, 
even though he / she does not have the pre requisite on any 
of above, provided that he/she possess the requisite of the 
Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest of 
the Sri lanka air force.
7. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
8. Conditions of Service :- 
(a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air force 
as an airmen / airwomen on a regular or volunteer 
engagement and will undergo a Basic combat 
training course. on successful completion of 
training, the duration of which will depend on the 
trade, the status allocated on his / her enlistment as 
an other Rank.
(b) airmen / airwomen will be required to undergo 
training at a place in Sri lanka or abroad as decided 
by the commander of the air force in consultation 
with the Ministry of defence.
(c) during the period of training as airmen/ airwomen 
and thereafter, personnel will be subject to air 
force law.
(d) Every airmen / airwomen will be provided all 
items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
(e) during the period of training, an airmen / 
airwomen will be accommodated in an air force 
Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) in the event of a airmen / airwomen voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature during training, 
the parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Republic of Sri lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Republic of Sri lanka on 
account of such airmen / airwomen.
(g) if at any time during his / her course a airmen / 
airwomen is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his / her control to qualify for a 
commission, his / her parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the Sri lanka air force all 
expenses incurred on his / her training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with the 
commander of the air force acting on behalf of the 
Government of Sri lanka.
      
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 32 of the application form in respect of sub 
paragraphs (f) and (g) above, and forward them 
together with the application. Parent or guardian 
will be required to enter in to a bond subsequently 
in this form with the Republic of   Sri lanka prior 
to the appointment of these candidates as airmen / 
airwomen.
(j) candidates who possess the requirement as per para 
1 to 5 will be called for the Preliminary interview 
and if successful will be called for Medical 
Examinations and all candidates selected will be 
medically and physically examined under Sri lanka 
air force arrangements to check the suitability in 
par with the Sri Lanka Air Force Medical fitness 
standards. candidates who successfully complete 
these tests will be called for the final interview 
process. the required number of candidates per 
trade will be selected according to merit at these 
interviews and tests.
(k) a  single airman is required to live in the airmen 
barracks. He / She is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. a single airmen’s ration 
allowance is paid to the Mess.
(l) a  married airmen/ airwomen may be provided 
with a married quarter if available. Recovery of 
rental will be as applicable to public servants. 
(m) all airmen/ airwomen are liable to be posted for 
duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
(n) all airmen/ airwomen are governed by the air 
force act and orders issued from time to time.
9. Terms of engagement : - 
 
(a) Regular Airmen and Airwomen. Selected 
candidates will be enlisted to the third class 
of the rank of aircraftsman / aircraftwomen / 
leading aircraftsman / corporal in the Regular 
air force and shall be required to serve for 
twelve (12) years in which eight (08) years will 
have to be served continuously whilst serving a 
further four (04) years in the Regular air force 
(Reserve) when called to do so. opportunities 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
963
exist for suitable airmen / airwomen to extend for further service on completion of eight years of service on the 
discretion of the commander of the Sri lanka air force.  
(b) volunteer Airmen and Airwomen.–- Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of 
Aircraftsman in the V olunteer Air Force and shall be required to serve for five (05) years. Opportunities exist 
for suitable to extend for further service on completion of five (05) years of service on the discretion of the 
commander of the Sri lanka air force.
10. Official Language Requirements.- the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made 
or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language Policy of the Republic of Sri lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
11. Pay and Allowances :
(a) it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries including allowances indicated below are the initial step of particular 
rank.
Year Con Pay Total Allowances Total Income 
Rank
air craftsmen 29,540.00 12,150.00 41,690.00
leading air craftsmen 30,440.00 12,150.00 42,590.00
corporal 31,340.00 12,150.00 43,490.00
(b) Pensions/Gratuities.– Payable in terms of the air force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. all airmen/ airwomen are contributors to the Widows and orphans Pension (armed force) 
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 
1970.
12. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own handwriting in terms of the from specified below. All cages 
of the application should be filled with much detail as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post 
addressed to “COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SChOOL, kOTuGODA” so as to reach there not later than 1200 noon on 15 may 2021. the Envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked “APPLICATION fOR REGuLAR / vOLuNTEER AIRmEN/ 
AIRWOmEN”. a candidate will be allowed to apply for three trades as per the order of preference/choice 
in one application.  He/she will be called up on to the preliminary interview of most suitable trade where 
qualifications are matched. In case if fails at the preliminary interview of first choice he/she will be called upon 
to interviews of other trades indicated as decided by the  commander of the air force based on the vacancies 
available. final decision on calling for interviews for any trade out of three choices is as per the discretion of the 
commander of the air force. applications received after closing date and time and not in accordance with the 
requirement of this notification and not in registered post will not be considered.
 
(b) candidates who are in Government Service/ corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through their Heads of departments / corporations/ Boards/civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if  selected.
(c) application could be downloaded from the www.slaf.lk website.
(d) candidates will be required to produce the originals with certified photo copy of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to do so:-

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
964
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth with 
a photo copy (Certificate issued for the 
purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
 (2) National identity card and a photo copy.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational and professional qualifications 
required for the trade applied and a photo 
copy.
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training and 
/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and a photo copy.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character (within 
06 months obtained). one of these should be 
from the Principal of the last school attended 
and the other from a responsible person who 
has knowledge of the applicant for more than 
two years or from the present employer (if 
employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
a photo copy.
 (7)  A Grama Niladhari certificate issued within 
six months.
 
 (8)  School leaving certificate.
 (9)  A plain folder with file tag.
 (10) Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified 
by the Grama Niladari.
(e) only the copies of the originals should be sent 
along with the applications under registered cover 
and only the scanned copies of the certificates in 
Pdf version should be attached when submitting 
online application.
       
(f) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(g) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(h) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
(j) candidates will be called for the Preliminary 
interview based on the basic requirements such 
as, educational qualifications, height, age, chest 
etc.  Provided in the respective application form 
and candidates who provided wrong information 
will be rejected at the preliminary checks.
13. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those 
candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates so 
selected from the Preliminary interview will be required 
to undergo a medical test as may be prescribed by the 
commander of the air force. candidates considered suitable 
for the interview will be required to appear for an interview 
at their own expense before an air force Recruiting Board. 
Such candidates will be informed individually of place, date 
and time. 
14. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
interviews, he  is to produce the National identity card. 
candidates who do not have the National identity card could 
produce some other form of the accepted identification. 
However, no candidates will be enlisted without the National 
identity card.
15.  all candidates who are selected is required to 
undergo a medical screening test and a physical fitness test 
as per Sri lanka air force Medical and fitness Standard 
during the selection process.
16. the required number of candidates per trade will be 
selected according to high marks merit at these interviews 
and tests.
17. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should 
do so by giving his/ her testimonial. any form of canvassing 
or attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result 
in disqualification of such candidates. 
18. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified.
 SK 
Pathirana,
 WWV and Bar, RWP and Bar, RSP and three 
 Bars, VSV , USP, MSc (Moa) USa, MSc (def 
 Stu) in Mgt, M Phil (ind), MiM (Sl), ndc (ind),  
 psc, qfi
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri lanka air force,
Po Box 594,
colombo 02.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
965
 Official use only
aPPlicatioN foR aiRMEN /aiRWoMEN iN tHE
……………………………tRadE of tHE SRi laNKa REGUlaR/ VolUNtEER aiR foRcE
trade Preferences:
1. 2. 3.
01. Nationality : ......................................................................................................................................................................
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card):  ..............................................................................................................
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
03. National identity card Number : ......................................................................................................................................
04. Permanent address: ............................................................................................................................................................
05.  Postal address: ..................................................................................................................................................................
06. date of birth :-
 (age as at 01st September 2021) years  :………………  Months  :………………  days :………………
07. Height: - …………cm    (………..feet ……….inches)
08. chest:- ……….cm
09. Weight:..................... Kg
 
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address:  .................................................................................................................
11.  Nearest air force camp to permanent address: ................................................................................................................
12. district:  .............................................................................................................................................................................
13. Electorate:  ........................................................................................................................................................................
14. Grama Niladhari division: ...............................................................................................................................................
15. t elephone number: - ……………….........................……  Email:……………………………………
16. Married or Single: .............................................................................................................................................................
17. Gender : ............................................................................................................................................................................
18. Schools attended:-  Primary : ........................................................................................................................................
  Secondary : ....................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
966
19. Particulars of School qualifications obtained:-
Name of School Type of examination
Year and Index 
number of the  
examination
Subjects passed   (including grading)
ordinary level
advanced level 
 
other/Professional 
qualifications
20. Any special qualification for the post: ..............................................................................................................................
21. Particulars of employment since leaving School: - (if applicable) 
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
                      
22. Particulars of family:-
Name with Initials NIC No. Occupation Present addressPast Present
father:
Mother: 
Siblings
23. details of blood relatives who are serving present or previously served in Sri lanka air force.
Rank Name Branch/Trade Present State
24.  details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and 
standards / levels achieved):- 
S/No. Description School Provincial National International

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
967
25. other achievements of note at School or with outside 
organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.): ......
 .......................................................................................
26. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps Scouting organization : .................
 .......................................................................................
27. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri lanka air 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give 
details and the outcome of such applications : ..............
 .......................................................................................
28. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, or any pending criminal or civil court 
cases against you? if so give details: .............................
 
29. if earlier employed in a Government department or in 
the Public Sector / Board / corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons 
for termination of employment:-......................... 
30. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
31. declaration to be signed by the applicant:-  ...................
i declare on my honour that answers given to the 
above questions are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge and belief. i have read and understood 
the procedure which will be adopted and the rules 
which will apply in respect of those candidates who 
are selected for Sri lanka air force published in the 
Gazette of the Republic of Sri lanka.
date………….. ………………………..
 Signature of applicant
32. declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of 
the applicant:
(a) i am the Parent / Guardian of………………... who 
is an applicant for a membership in the Sri lanka 
air force and who has signed the declaration in 
cage 31 of the form of application above.
(b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following :
(1) t o refund to the Republic of Sri lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature during his / 
her period of training all expenses incurred up 
to that time by the Republic of Sri lanka on 
account of such applicant.
(2) t o refund to the Republic of Sri lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by the authorities as being unsuitable (for 
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within 
his / her own control) for the continuation of 
service all the expenses incurred on his / her 
account by the Republic of Sri lanka.
 ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of Parent /Guardian.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
 
                  
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of first Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Second Witness.
   
   
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
04–877

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
968
SRI  LANkA  AIR  fORCE 
Officer Vacancies
1. V acaNciES exist for suitable Male / female 
Commissioned Officers in the Regular and V olunteer Force 
of the Sri lanka air force in the following Branches. 
a. t echnical Engineering Branch (Male)
b. Electronic Engineering Branch (Male)
c. logistics Branch (Male)
d. Medical Branch (Male/female)
e. dental Branch (Male/female)
f. administrative legal Branch (Male)
g. administrative Veterinary Branch (Male/female)
h. administrative agriculture Branch (Male/female)
j. administrative Education Branch (Male/female)
k. administrative Band Branch (Male/female)
l. administrative audit Branch (Male)
2. applications are invited from those Male/female  
candidates possessing the professional qualifications given 
below.
bASIC EDuCATIONAL QuALIfICATIONS
(a)  Minimum of six credit (c) Passes at the GcE 
(o/l) examination with compulsory  credit (c) 
Passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and a Simple (S) Pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language in one sitting (additional and optional 
subjects are not considered). further, candidates 
who apply for  technical type professions (technical 
Engineering branch and  Electronic engineering 
branch)   with higher professional qualifications 
than required level, but with ‘S’ Pass for GcE 
o/l English language or ‘c’ Pass at the second 
sitting will be considered for calling preliminary 
interviews.  
(b) Minimum of three S Passes at the GcE (a/l) 
examination and Passes may be from any stream in 
one sitting.
(c) Pearson / Edexcel / international ordinary / 
advance level, GcSE, GcE and cambridge 
exam qualification may be considered subjected 
to a confirmation obtained from the Department of 
Examination, Sri lanka to effect that it is equivalent 
to above basic educational qualifications.
PROfESSIONAL / ACADEmIC QuALIfICATIONS
(a) TEChNICAL ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1) Chemical Engineering Officer - Male 
(volunteer)  BSc in Physical Science degree 
or equivalent and more than three (03) years’ 
experience in surface treatment or equivalent 
field.
(b) ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1) Electronics Engineering Officer – Male 
(Regular)     Bachelors  Engineering degree in 
Electronics & telecommunication Engineering 
or Bachelor’s degree in Physical Science with 
Electronics / telecommunication as a main 
subject  from recognized University or National 
diploma in technology (Ndt) in Electronics & 
telecommunication Engineering technology 
from the University of Moratuwa or Higher 
National diploma in Electrical & Electronics 
Engineering (HNdE) from Sri lanka institute 
of advanced technological Education or 
National diploma in Engineering Science 
(NdES) in Electronics & communication 
Engineering from institute of Engineering 
technology. associate Membership in iESl  
will be an added advantage.
(c) LOGISTICS bRANCh
(1) mess managers - male (Regular) 
Bachelor’s degree or Higher diploma in 
Hotel Management or completion of all 4 
levels of full time basic courses with industrial 
training and completion of intermediate 
and advanced level in professional cookery 
from a recognized local/ foreign institute 
with minimum of 03 years post qualification 
experience in Star class Hotel in cookery in 
executive capacity.
(d) mEDICAL bRANCh  
(1) Consultant Physician - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) Md (General/Medicine) with board 
certification.
(b) Sri lanka Medical council (SlMc) 
registration as a consultant Physician. 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
969
(2) Consultant Surgeon - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) Md (General Surgery) with board 
certification.
(b) Sri lanka Medical council (SlMc) 
registration as a consultant Surgeon. 
(3) Consultant Anaesthetist - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) Md (anaesthesiology) with board 
certification.
(b) Sri lanka Medical council (SlMc) 
registration as a consultant anaesthetist.
(4) Consultant Pediatrician - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) MD (Pediatrician) with board certification. 
(b) Sri lanka Medical council (SlMc) 
registration as a consultant Pediatrician.
(5) Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist 
- male/ female (volunteer)
(a) Md (obstetrics and Gynaecology)
(b) Sri lanka Medical council (SlMc) 
registration as a consultant obstetrician 
and Gynaecologist.
(6) Psychologist – male / female (Regular 
/ v olunteer) Psychologists who have 
successfully completed Ba  in psychology 
degree from recognized University in Sri 
lanka.
 Special Note: consultants below the age of 40 
years as at 15
th June 2021 will be considered 
for the selection. However, consultants over 
40 years as at 15
th June 2021 and having 
experience with additional qualifications 
will be considered for selection (Rank: 
Wing commander) with the discretion of the 
commander of the air force.
(e) DENTAL bRANCh
(1) Dental Officers - Male/ Female (Regular / 
volunteer)  BdS (Sri lanka) or a degree 
equivalent to BdS from any recognized 
University of foreign country with full 
registration with the Sri lanka Medical 
council.
(2) Pre - Intern Trainees/ Dental Students  - 
male/ female (Regular / volunteer) 
Students who are studying in the 07
th – 08 th 
semesters (equivalent to 4 th year) or Students 
who have successfully completed eight (08) 
semester (equivalent to 5
th year) of BdS (Sri 
lanka) course or degree equivalent to BdS 
obtained from any recognized University of a 
foreign country which is accepted by Sri lanka 
Medical council and who have not completed 
Provisional registration at Sri lanka Medical 
council will also be considered. those 
candidates who are selected have to qualify 
with full registration with the Sri lanka 
Medical council within 05 years from the date 
of enlistment.
(f) ADmINISTRATIvE LEGAL bRANCh
(1) Legal Officer – Male (Regular)    
attorney-at-law of the Supreme court of Sri 
lanka.
(a) at least three years working experience 
in the Magistrate’s court, district court, 
High court or Superier courts.
(b) Should have knowledge on drafting 
agreements and deeds both in Sinhala 
and English languages.
(c) Should have knowledge on company 
secretarial services.
(d) fluent in English and computer literate 
will be additional qualifications. 
(g) ADmINISTRATIvE vETERINARy bRANCh
(1) Veterinary Officer - Male / Female 
(Regular) Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine 
and animal Science or equivalent with 
registration of Sri lanka Veterinary council.
(h) ADmINISTRATIvE  AGRICuLTuRE  bRANCh
(1) Agriculture Officer - Male / Female 
(Regular) Bachelor of Science in agriculture 
Degree or an Equivalent Qualification.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
970
(j) ADmINISTRATIvE EDuCATION bRANCh 
(1) English Language Instructor - male/ 
female (volunteer) 
 Bachelor’s degree with English language 
as a subject  or a Bachelor’s degree B.Ed 
(Bachelor of Education) in English or Post 
Graduate diploma in tESl/tEfl/tESol or 
Master degree (Ma) with English as a subject 
or Master degree (Ma) in English literature 
or Master degree (Ma) in tESl/tESol/
tEfl.
 Successful completion of three (3) years 
teacher training diploma course as an 
English language teacher at the ‘National 
college of Education (Pasdunrata)’ or two (02) 
years Special teacher training course as an 
English language teacher at the Government 
teacher training college or Successful 
completion of cElta/dElta  (University of 
cambridge) at  any British council. 
(k) ADmINISTRATIvE bAND bRANCh 
(1) band master - Western music / military 
band – male (Regular / volunteer) 
Bachelor degree in fine arts /Performing 
arts or Postgraduate diploma in Western 
Music or  Grade V music theory and practical 
or above of Royal School of Music trinity 
college london, london college of Music or 
equal foreign qualifications.   
(2) band master – Oriental music beat 
Group/ Oriental Orchestra– male / female 
(Regular / volunteer)
 Bachelor degree or diploma in fine arts/
Performing arts or Post Graduate diploma of 
final level (Music) in national level Dance and 
Music examination of Sri lanka or Visaradha 
part 2 or above level from Bathkanda Music 
academy india. 
(3) band master – Dancing / Drumming 
(Dance Troup) – male / female (Regular / 
volunteer)
 Bachelor degree or diploma in fine arts/
Performing arts or post graduate diploma or 
final level (Dancing) in National Dance and 
Music examination of Sri lanka and credit 
Pass of G.c.E o/l  for dancing will be an 
additional qualification. 
(l) ADmINISTRATIvE  AuDIT  bRANCh 
(1) Internal Audit Officer – Male (Regular) 
Bachelor degree in commerce / Management 
/ accountancy or Business discipline from the 
recognized University of Sri lanka with one 
or more professional qualifications mentioned 
below.
(a) Fully qualified Chartered Public 
finance accountant of association 
of Public finance accountants of Sri 
lanka (Public sector wing of chartered 
accountant Sri lanka).
 or
(b) Fully qualified Chartered Accountant 
of Sri Lanka or similar qualification 
of chartered institute of Management 
Accountants (CIMA) of UK or Certified 
Management accountant of institute 
of Certified Management Accountants 
(cMa) of Sri lanka.
   or
(c) Certified Business Accountant (CBA) 
of institute chartered accountants of 
Sri Lanka or similar qualification of 
chartered institute of Management 
accountants (ciMa) of UK or institute 
of Certified Management Accountants 
(cMa) of Sri lanka. 
 Experience : Post qualification executive work 
experience in the relevant field of two  years or more will be 
an added advantage to be considered by the interview board 
for the  selection process.
3. basic Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri lanka
(b) civil Status : Married / Unmarried 
(c) Gender  : Male / female (as applicable)
 
(d) age  : Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 33 years as at 15
th June 
2021 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
971
(e) Height  : Male - 167.5cm (5' 6") and above 
      165.0cm (5' 5") and above for 
Medical/ dental Branches
   female - 162.5cm (5' 4") and above 
160.0cm (5' 3") and above for 
Medical/dental Branches   
(f) Weight : Male     - 17 < BMi < 26  
   female - 17 < BMi < 25 
               Weight (Kg)
    BMi = ––––––––––––
               Height (m)
2
(g) chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) colour Vision Standard : cP2
(j) Visual acuity : left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
  (Without spectacles / contact lens)
  Medical / dental Branches 6/18 in 
each eye 
  (corrected visual acuity with 
spectacle should be 6/6 in each 
eye.)
4. Special Note :
(a) Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the 
requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on 
arrival for the first interview the height, vision 
and weight will be measured. candidates whose 
height, vision and weight are below the standard 
specified in the Gazette Notification and who have 
no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
(b) Selected candidates will be commissioned in the 
rank of Flight Lieutenant or Flying Officer or 
Pilot Officer in keeping with their professional 
qualification and experience at the discretion of the 
commander of air force.
(c) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a written, practical and an Officer Quality 
test during the selection process.
(d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a medical screening test as per Sri lanka 
air force Medical Standard during the selection 
process. 
(e) all Masters, Bachelor’s degrees and diplomas 
should be awarded from a recognized University 
accepted by the University Grant commission of 
Sri lanka.
(f) Any candidate who has special qualifications may 
at the discretion of the commander of the air force 
be considered, even though he / she does not have 
any of above pre requisites, provided that he / she 
possess the requisite of the professional / special 
qualifications for the best interest of the Sri Lanka 
air force.
(g) due considerations will be given to current 
outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
(h) Official Language Requirements.– Selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may be made hereafter for giving 
effect to the language Policy of the Republic of 
Sri lanka and in particular for implementing the 
provisions in the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 
1956.
(j) Selected candidates will be required to undergo 
training at such places as decided by the 
commander of the air force. if at any time during 
training, the officer is reported on by the authorities 
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or 
due to causes within his / her control, he / she will 
be liable to have his / her commission withdrawn 
and / or be subject to other disciplinary action 
in accordance with the Sri lanka air force 
disciplinary Regulations.
(k) all the Branch candidates who passed medical 
examination will be called for the Officer Quality 
tests. thereafter, if successful all the candidates 
will be called for a familiarization training 
programme at Sri lanka air force training 
establishments as applicable and required. 
candidates who successfully complete these 
tests will be called for the final interview. the 
required number of candidates per Branch and list 
of stand-by candidates to face the final interview 
will be selected according to the merit list and the 
final order of merit will be prepared after these 
interviews and tests. candidates who hide any 
history of sicknesses, injuries or failed to declare 
medicines prescribed for particular sickness will be 
rejected at any time of the interview process.     
(l) The conditions of service for an Officer of the 
Sri lanka air force (Regular/Regular Reserve ) 
are in terms of  Sri lanka air force Regulations 
published in Gazette No. 10,240 of 27 april 1951 
and as amended from time to time. in terms of 

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
972
Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every officer shall hold his / her appointment during the President's pleasure". 
However an officer has no right to resign his / her commission unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of 
the air force act may be allowed by the President to do so. the provisions of any Bond / agreement envisaging 
a period of obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of 
Section 11 of the air force act stated above. Retirement from the air force will be applicable under conditions 
specified in the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.  
(m)  Candidates who attend final interviews are required to declare their final decision to join the Sri Lanka Air Force at 
the interview board or just after it, in order to be given an opportunity to candidates at the Stand-by list. candidates 
who passed the final interview and failed to inform their inability to join Sri Lanka Air Force and absent at the final 
enlistment will not be considered for any future reapply attempt to the Sri lanka air force.
(n) candidates who show poor performance and do not possess right attitude, ethical behaviour, self-conduct, at any 
level of the interview process will be subjected to rejection.   
(p) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
(q) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
(r) A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He / She are provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. Batman service will also be provided. A single officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to 
the Mess.
(s) A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the 
Establishment Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance as 
stated in para 5. d. (11)
5. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at present, and same revision completes in year 2021, followings 
are the amounts payable in 2020. further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the 
initial step of particular grade.
Year 2021
(Annual) Rs.Rank
Officer Cadets 388,560.00
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 463,260.00
Pilot Officer 
(Non cadet)
502,860.00
Flying Officer 571,380.00 - (30x16020)  = 1,051,980.00
flight lieutenant 667,500.00 - (24x16020) = 1,051,980.00
Squadron leader 731,580.00 - (22x16020) = 1,084,020.00
Wing commander 751,140.00 -  (17x19560) = 1,083,660.00
  
(b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers : 
Year 2021
(Annual) Rs.Grade
Preliminary Grade 651,480.00(2x16020-7x16140-2x19560-16x26040) = 1,252,260.00
Grade ii 699,660.00 (6x16140-2x19560 - 16x26040) = 1,252,260.00
Grade i 861,660.00 (15x26040) = 1,252,260.00
Specialist Grade 1,056,000.00 (12x32400) = 1,444,800.00

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
973
(c) Other allowances applicable to Medical Officers
(1) Pensionable allowances :
   
 Preliminary Grade - Rs.1,700.00 per month
 Grade ii - Rs.1,700.00 per month 
 Grade i - Rs.3,400.00 per month 
 Specialist Grade  - Rs.3,400.00 per month
(2)  Non Pensionable allowances 
 Preliminary Grade - Rs.2,125.00 per month
 Grade ii - Rs.1,700.00 per month 
 Grade i - Rs.   400.00 per month 
(3) dat  allowances  - Rs.35,000.00 per month
(4) Extra duty payments
  
 Preliminary Grade - Rs.    687.00 per hour
 Grade ii - Rs .   796.00 per hour
 Grade i - Rs. 1,101.00 per hour 
 Specialist Grade  - Rs. 1,302.00 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 5. d (18) are to be calculated  separately as applicable.
(d) Service Allowances: -
 (1) cost of living allowance Rs.7, 800.00 per month. 
 (2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per month after five years of service.
 (3) Hard allowance Rs. 620.00 per month.(Rs.20.00 per day)
 (4)  additional Hard allowance Rs. 4,380.00 per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special allowance Rs. 3,100.00 per month (Rs.100.00 will be paid for per day)
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1000.00  per month.  
 
 (7)  Uniform upkeep allowance - air cdre & above Rs.600.00, Gp capt & bellow Rs.525.00 per month.)
 
 (8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
 (9)  Ration allowance Rs. 24005.47 per month (Rs.774.37 per day, if permitted to live out).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) Rent allowance for married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. - Pilot Officer to 
Squadron leader and above Rs.3,200.00 to Rs. 8,500.00 per month)
 (12) telephone bill allowance. Wing commander to air Vice Marshal Rs.2,500.00  to Rs. 5,000.00 per 
month. 

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
974
 (13)  three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (for officer, spouse and  children).
 (14) an additional set of railway warrants or 
the reimbursement of bus fare for  officers 
living in Messes to travel from the Mess to 
the hometown once a month.
 
 (15) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (16) free medical facilities (including for 
families if applicable).
 (17) Married Officers permitted to live out are 
entitled to a free bus Pass from the  Sri 
lanka transport Board to travel residence 
to place of work within 30 miles radius.
  
 (18) Service allowance Rs.300.00, Rs.400.00, 
Rs.500.00 as applicable (Payable to  
service Medical and Dental Officers in 
consideration to the number of complete 
years of service) 
 (19) Engineering allowances Rs. 15000.00 per 
month (Applicable to Engineering Officers 
only)
 (20) additional service allowance Rs.1, 500.00 
per month (applicable to service Medical 
and Dental Officers only)
 (21) 1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x 3 days 
(Maximum) per month (applicable   
to service Medical and Dental Officers only)
 (22) Extra duty Payments 120 hrs (Maximum) 
per month (applicable to service Medical 
and Dental Officers only)
 (23) telephone bill allowances - 
  Specialist doctors Rs. 8,000.00 per month  
other doctors   Rs. 4,000.00 per month
6. Pensions/Gratuities: - Payable in terms of the air force 
Pensions & Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from 
time to time. All officers are contributors to the Widows 
and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme. Rates of 
contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension 
(armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
7. Instructions to applicants :
(a) applications should be submitted in terms of the 
form specified below. All cages of the application 
should be completed neatly with as much details 
as possible. applications should be addressed to 
"COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, SRI 
LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SChOOL, kOTuGODA" so as to reach him 
not later than 1200 noon on 15 may 2021 under 
registered cover. the envelope enclosing the 
application should be marked   "APPLICATION 
fOR COmmISSION IN ThE ……………… 
bRANCh". applications received after the 
closing date and not in accordance with the 
requirements of this notification and not in 
registered post mail will not be entertained. 
(b) candidates who are in Government Service /
corporations /Boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
Heads of department/ corporations/Boards/civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to 
the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
(c) application could be downloaded from the www.
slaf.lk website.  
(d) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the following 
documents when summoned for interviews or 
when called upon to do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth with 
a photo copy (Certificate issued for the 
purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
 (2) National identity card and a photo copy.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational and professional qualifications 
required for the branch applied and a photo 
copy.
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training 
and / or experience (if any) obtained from 
a recognized institution and a photo copy.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character 
(within 06 months obtained). one of 

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
975
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has knowledge of 
the applicant for more than two years or 
from the present employer (if employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities 
and a photo copy.
 (7)  A Grama Niladhaari certificate issued 
within six months.
 (8)  School leaving certificate.
 (9)  A plain folder with file tag.
 (10) Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified 
by the Grama Niladari.
(e) only the copies of the originals should be sent 
along with the applications under registered cover 
and only the scanned copies of the certificates in 
Pdf version should be attached when submitting 
online application.
(f) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(g) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(h) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
(j) candidates will be called for the Preliminary 
interview based on the basic  requirements such 
as, educational qualifications, height, age, chest 
etc.  provided in the respective application form 
and candidates who provided wrong information 
will be rejected at the preliminary checks.  
8. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to 
dismissal if discovered after the selection.
9. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. 
candidates so selected from the Preliminary 
interview will be required to undergo a medical 
test as may be prescribed by the commander 
of the Air Force. The final selection will then 
be made after an interview appointed by the 
Ministry of defence. 
(b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date of 
such interviews. No travelling or other expenses 
will be paid in this respect.
(c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
(d) candidates likely to be suitable following their 
final interviews will be required to present 
themselves before an air force Medical Board.
(e) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his / her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
(f) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
    
 SK 
Pathirana,
 WWV and Bar, RWP and Bar, RSP and three 
 Bars, VSV , USP, MSc (Moa) USa, MSc (def 
 Stu) in Mgt, M Phil (ind), MiM (Sl), ndc (ind),  
 psc, qfi
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri lanka air force,
Po Box 594,
colombo 02.

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
976
 Official use only
aPPlicatioN foR coMMiSSioN iN tHE SRi laNKa REGUlaR/VolUNtEER aiR foRcE iN tHE 
...................................................... BRaNcH
01. Nationality : ......................................................................................................................................................................
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card):  ..............................................................................................................
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
03. National identity card Number : ......................................................................................................................................
04. Branch applied : ................................................................................................................................................................
05. Post applied :  ....................................................................................................................................................................
06.  Permanent address: ...........................................................................................................................................................
07. Nearest Police Station to permanent address : .................................................................................................................
08. Nearest air force camp to permanent address : ...............................................................................................................
09. School attended : .............................................................................................................................................................
10. Postal address : .................................................................................................................................................................
11. E-mail address : ................................................................................................................................................................
12. date of birth :-
 (age as at 15th June 2021) years  :………………  Months  :………………  days :………………
13. Height: - …………cm    (………..feet ……….inches)
14. chest:- ……….cm
15. Weight:..................... Kg
 
16. district:  .............................................................................................................................................................................
17. Electorate:  ........................................................................................................................................................................
18. GN division and Number : ...............................................................................................................................................
19. t elephone number: - ……………….........................……  Email:……………………………………
20. civil status :  ......................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
977
21. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained:-
Name of School Type of examination Year and Index number 
of the  examination
Subjects Passed      
(including grading)
ordinary level
advanced level 
General English
common General test
University/ other/
Professional
22. Any special qualification for the post: ..............................................................................................................................
23. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University: - (if applicable) 
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
                      
24. Particulars of family:-
Name with Initials NIC No. Occupation Present addressPast Present
father:
Mother: 
Siblings
25. details of blood relatives who are serving present or previously served in Sri lanka air force :
Rank Name Branch/Trade Present State

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
978
26.  details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and 
standards / levels achieved):- 
S/No. Description School Provincial National International
27. Other achievements of note at School / University (Island ranking, Projects Completed, field of in-plant training and 
institution) or with outside organizations. (Give details with dates / years etc) : ..............................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................................................
28. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization : .......................
 ............................................................................................................................................................................................
29 Have you applied earlier to join the Sri lanka air force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications : .....................................................................................................................................
30 Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details : .................................................
  ............................................................................................................................................................................................
31. if earlier employed in a Government department or in the Public Sector / Board / corporation (including the central 
Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment: ..................................................................................................................................................................
32. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
33  declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri lanka.
        ………………………..
       Signature of applicant.
date :………….. 
04–876

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
979
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Notice on conducting a common competitive Examination for the recruitment of officers to the Post in 
Government all-island Services 
tHE cabinet of Ministers, at its meeting held on 09 th November 2020, has granted approval for the selection of suitable 
persons from a single competitive examination instead of conducting separate competitive examinations for each service for 
the filling up of vacancies in the all-island services in public service. 
accordingly, action will be taken by the Public Service commission to conduct this examination in the following manner.
1. Structure of the examination: -
this examination consists of two parts. Namely,
Part i – (common Part)
Part 2 – (Specific Part relevant to each service)
Part 1: - this part is common to all the all-island services and it consists of two question papers which contain 
below mentioned subjects.
Question Paper 1: intelligence test
Question Paper 2: comprehension
Part 2: - in case where any other subjects are mentioned in the service minutes of the relevant all-island service in 
addition to the two subjects mentioned in the Part 1 above, such subjects are included under Part 2 (details on these 
subjects will be published when the applications are called).
2. Method of conducting the examination: -
the commissioner General of Examinations, as per the instructions of the Public Service commission, conducts 
this examination every year within a specific period of time. Applications are called via online and the candidates 
are allowed to apply for any number of all-island services, for which they fulfill the required qualifications, through 
one application. the candidates will not be allowed to change the preference order of the services marked by them. 
this examination will be conducted in colombo and outlying areas, appropriately. admission for the examination 
will not be sent by post and the candidates should get it downloaded from the relevant website.    
all candidates should sit the Part i (common Part) of the examination and only the candidates who obtain 40% of 
the marks or more for each paper and 100 of aggregate marks or more for two question papers will be eligible for 
the Part 2 of the examination. the eligibility/ ineligibility of each candidate to sit the Part 2 of the examination will 
be published.
the examination time table of the Part 2 will be prepared  as to give every candidate the opportunity to sit all the 
subjects they have applied for. 
3. Method of selection for the all-island services  :
Selections will be made as set out in the service minute of the relevant all-island service based on the marks obtained 
by the candidates in this examination pertaining to each service. action is being taken to amend the service minutes 
of each all-island service where necessary so as to make this method of examination applicable for the selection. 

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2021
980
this method of examination will be implemented from the year 2021 and amendments to the service minutes 
required to implement this method have already been made in respect of the following services and streams.
1. Recruitment to the Sri lanka administrative Service – open Stream
2. Recruitment to the Sri lanka accountants Service – open Stream and limited Stream
3. Recruitment to the Sri lanka Planning Service – open Stream
4. Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Scientific Service – Open Stream
5. Recruitment to the Sri lanka architects Service – open Stream
action will be taken to introduce this method of examination to the other all-island services in the future after 
introducing necessary amendment to the service minutes. However, until such amendments are made, the existing 
method of examination conducted for the recruitment to each service will remain unchanged. 
By order of the Public Service commission,
 M. a. b. Daya senarath,
  Secretary,
 Public Service commission.
   
1200/9,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla, 
28th april, 2021.
04–879
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.