

<!-- page 1 -->

NIMAL RUPASINGHE FRIENDSHIP FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Ishak Rahuman, M. P. for Anuradhapura District
on 23rd of January, 2018.
Ordered by Parliament to be printed.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs.  18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 230]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on January 08, 2018)
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 010474—300 (11/2017)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NIMAL RUPASINGHE FRIENDSHIP
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an society called and known as the “Nimal
Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation” has heretofore been
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and transacting all matters connected  with the
said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application.
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Nimal Rupasinghe
Friendship Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2018.
2. From and after  the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so may persons as now are members of the Nimal
Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation (hereinafter referred to as
the “Foundation”) or  shall  hereinafter be admitted as members
of the “Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)  and by that
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to have
and  use a common seal and  to alter  the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) To implement programmes and to give guidance to
create a good atmosphere to build up peace and
harmony in all communities and ethnic groups to
live as Sri Lankans;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Nimal
Rupasinghe
friendship
Foundation.
25
The general
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to implement programmes to educate the Sri Lankan
society of the field of Law without any discrimination
giving priority to the fact that “Ignorance of the Law
is not an excuse” ;
(c) to provide necessary educational equipments and
other relevent facilities for the improvement of the
educational knowledge of the children, through the
programme of Sisu Sahana Mavupiya Kapakaru
Shisya Adara wedasatahana”;
(d) printing publication and distribution of books,
Magazines in order to promote the Education;
(e) to provide educational  facilites and also to give
knowledge for the education of the Pre-school
children;
(f) to provide Library facilities including books for the
learning children to gain knowledge;
(g) to organize seminars and workshops for the G.C.E.
O/L  and A/L students to improve their knowledge of
education;
(h) to provide facilities for the education of the children
with special needs;
(i) to conduct lectures, seminars, discussions exhibitions
and carnivals to promote the objects of the
corporation.
(j) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions which have similar objectives.

<!-- page 4 -->

Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
Law, the corporation shall have the power to do, perform
and execute all such Acts, matters and things, whatsoever as
are necessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of
the objects of the corporation or any of them including the
powers to open operate or close bank accounts to borrow or
raise moneys with or without security to receive or collect or
accept grants and donations to invest its funds to the
corporation and to engage employ and dismiss officers and
servents required for the carrying out of the objects of the
corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors Consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The Executive committee which held the office of the
corporation before the date of implementation of the Act,
shall be the first Executive committeee of the corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Executive committee the quorum of such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and the executive committee; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or replace at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1) of this Section.
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities existing on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to and subscriptions and contribution
payable to the Foundation on that date shall be paid to the
Corporation hereby constituted.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testmentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for or and on account of the corporation shall be
deposited  in one or more banks as the Corporation shall
determine.
(2) There shall be paid out from the fund, of the
Corporation all sum of money incurred from by the
corporation in the  exercise of its objects.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, in the presence of the President,
Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporation  and shall sign
their names to the instrument in taken of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
11. No member of the Corporation of there remains after
the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities of the
Corporation or for any other purpose, be liable to make any
contribution exceeding the among of scuh membership fees
as may be due from him to the Corporation.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the corporation there remains after the
satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities and property
whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed among
the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other foundation or foundations having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is or
are by its rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members. Such
foundation or foundations shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Funds of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
13. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2)  The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of income and expenditure assent and liabilities and
all other transactions of the corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be
audited by a qualified auditors as may be determined by the
Board.
In this section “Qualified auditor” means:-
(a) An individual who being a member of
the Institute of chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka or any other institute established
by law possesses a certificate to practice as
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute; or
(b) A firm of Accountant each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka or of any other institute established
by Law, possesses a certificate to practice as
an Accountant issued by the council of such
institute.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or  of anybody  politic, or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act,  and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
20
Accounts and
Audit.
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

Nimal Rupasinghe Friendship Foundation
(Incorporation)
7