

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
HIGH COURT OF THE PROVINCES
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS) (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 54 OF 2006
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 28th December, 2006]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 4.25 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 29, 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 54 of 2006
1
[Certified on 28th December 2006]
L. D.—O. 70/2006.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  HIGH  COURT  OF  THE  PROVINCES  (SPECIAL
PROVISIONS ) ACT , NO . 19 OF  1990
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the High Court of the
Provinces (Special Provisions) (Amendment)  Act, No. 54 of
2006.
2. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 5 of the High Court of the Provinces
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 19 of 1990 and shall have effect
as sections 5
A , 5B , 5C  and 5D  of that Act :—
5A . (1) A High Court established by Article
154P of the Constitution for a Province, shall
have and exercise appellate and revisionary
jurisdiction in respect of judgments, decrees
and orders delivered and made by any District
Court or a Family Court within such Province
and the appellate jurisdiction for the correction
of all errors in fact or in law, which shall be
committed by any such District Court or Family
Court, as the case may be.
(2) The provisions of sections 23 to 27 of
the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978 and sections
753 to 760 and sections 765 to 777 of the Civil
Procedure Code (Chapter 101) and of any
written law applicable to the exercise of the
jurisdiction referred to in subsection (1) by the
Court of Appeal, shall be read and construed as
including a reference to a High Court
established by Article 154P of the Constitution
for a Province and any person aggrieved by
any judgment, decree or order of a District
2—PL 001615—5,600  (11/2006)
Short title.
Insertion of new
sections 5A , 5B ,
5C  and 5D  in Act,
No. 19 of 1990.
“Jurisdiction
to hear
appeals from
District
Courts and
Family
Courts.

<!-- page 3 -->

High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 54 of 2006
2
Court or a Family Court, as the case may be,
within a Province, may invoke the jurisdiction
referred to in that subsection, in the High Court
established for that Province :
Provided that no judgment or decree of a
District Court or of a Family Court, as the case
may be, shall be reversed or varied by the High
Court on account of any error, defect or
irregularity, which has not prejudiced the
substantial rights of the parties or occasioned a
failure of justice.
5
B . The jurisdiction of a High Court of a
Province referred to in section 5A , shall be
ordinarily exercised at all times by not less than
two judges of that Court, sitting together as
such High Court.
5C . (1) An appeal shall lie directly to the
Supreme Court from any judgment, decree or
order pronounced or entered by a High Court
established by Article 154P of the Constitution
in the exercise of its jurisdiction granted by
section 5
A  of this Act, with leave of the Supreme
Court first had and obtained. The leave
requested for shall be granted by the Supreme
Court, where in its opinion the matter involves
a substantial question of law or is a matter fit
for review by such Court.
(2) The Supreme Court may exercise all or
any of the powers granted to it by paragraph (2)
of Article 127 of the Constitution, in regard to
any appeal made to the Supreme Court under
subsection (1) of this section.
Hearing of
appeals.
Appeal to the
Supreme
Court from
decisions of
the High
Court.

<!-- page 4 -->

High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 54 of 2006
3
5D . (1) Where any appeal or application in
respect of which the jurisdiction is granted to a
High Court established by Article 154P of the
Constitution by section 5
A  of this Act is filed in
the Court of Appeal, such appeal or application,
as the case may be, may be transferred for
hearing and determination to an appropriate
High Court as may be determined by the
President of the Court of Appeal and upon such
reference, the said High Court shall hear and
determine such appeal or the application, as
the case may be, as if such appeal or application
was directly made to such High Court.
(2) The President of the Court of Appeal in
consultation with the Chief Justice, may issue
directions from time to time pertaining to
appeals, applications in revision and restitutio
in integrum pending in the Court of Appeal on
the date of the coming into operation of this
section, to be removed for hearing and
determination to an appropriate High Court
established by Article 154P of the Constitution.
Any such direction may be made by reference
to the year in which the appeal or application,
as the case may be, was filed in the Court of
Appeal and such High Court shall be vested
with jurisdiction to hear and determine such
appeal or application, as the case may be, in
accordance with the provisions of section 5
A  of
this Act, as if such appeal or application was
filed directly in such High Court.”.
3. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Transfer of
cases from
the Court of
Appeal to the
High Court
of a
Province.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.