

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
353
353
wxl 1"905 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'03'06
No. 1,905 – FRIDAY , MARCH 06, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 356
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 359
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 27th March, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th
March, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Part III of the Gazette No. 1,904 of 27.02.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
354
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
355
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
356
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
HAMBANTOTA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th February, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Hambantota T angalle Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Giruwapattuwa South Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths for Marakolliya Hambantota.
Division
03–25
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
357
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
18th February, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Medadumbara Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Palispattuwa West Division and Post General, District Secretariat,
of Marriage Registrar of Pathadumbara Kandy.
(Kandyan/General)
The villages belongs to Palispattuwa West Births and Deaths Registration Division.
1. Nithulemada 3. Ellepola 5. Maberiyatenna 7. Gal Ambalama
2. Wewegama 4. Hijrapura 6. Senerathwela 8. Ambagahalanda
03–144
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
HAMBANTOTA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
358
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th February, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Hambantota Hambantota Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
for Bandagiriya Division General, Dist rict Secretariat,
Hambantota.
03–24
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th February, 2015.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
359
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Madampe Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Madampe Area of Pitigal Koralaya General, District Secretariat,
North Division Puttalam.
03–23
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
relevant section of the application shall be completed according to
the table in which towns and town numbers are indicated.
It will not be allowed to change the town applied for
subsequently.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
4.0 (i) This examination shall be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of these rules and regulations.
5.0 Qualifications.– Officers who have been appointed to Grade
I of Public Management Assistants' Service shall be qualified to sit
for this examination.
Note.– This examination shall be passed within 05 years
from the date of promotion to Grade I.
Provisions for Provincial Management Assistants' Service shall
be issued by the relevant Provincial Public Service Commissions
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
GRADE  I  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2014(I) (2015)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for officers
in Class I of the Public Management Assistants' Service will be held
by the Commissioner - General of Examinations in the month of
June 2015 as per the provisions of Section 8 and 15 of the Public
Management Assistants' Service Minute (Interim Provisions)
published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,840/34 dated 11.12.2013 and Annex
06.
2.0 (i) Officers who have earned five salary increments on
completion of an active and satisfactory service of five
years after promotion to grade I before the
implementation of this service minute shall be exempted
from the requirement of passing the efficiency bar
examination prescribed for Grade I under this service
minute.
(ii) A period of concession of five years from the effective
date of this service minute shall be given to the officers,
who have not earned five salary increments on
completion of an active and satisfactory period of five
years from the date of promotion to Grade I, even though
they have been promoted to Grade I before the
implementation of this Service Minute, to pass the
relevant Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for
Grade I under this Service Minute.
3.0 This examination for officers in Grade I of Public Management
Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The relevant
towns and town numbers are given below. The Commissioner
General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel a centre due to
insufficient number of candidates or other reason and decide the
centre according to the second preference of the candidates at his
discretion. If a sufficient number of candidates have not applied to
have examination centers in all the proposed towns or in the majority
of towns, the Commissioner General of Examinations shall make
arrangements to conduct the examination only in Colombo. The

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
360
and provisions shall be issued by the relevant institutions for other
institutions concurrently to this Gazette Notification.
In order to identify the applications of the officers in each
Porvincial Public Service and other institutions conveniently, Code
number should be used. Accordingly, for the officers in combined
service Code number is 10. This number should be entered in the
upeer right side of the application where you have to mention the
service you belong to.
6.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the,
Commissioner - General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
P. O. 1503,
Colombo.
On or before 06th of April, 2015. The name of the examination
should be indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope of
the application which is forwarded to the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Applications received after the closing date and
applications in which the relevant details have not been furnished
shall be rejected.
7.0 Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates shall be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents might be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The candidates shall be
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in conducting the examination. Candidates
shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
8.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised as not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/her self complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings
Rs. 400 for the whole examination or for more than one subject and
Rs. 200 for only one subject should be paid at any post-ofice
island-wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained thus
should be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. It
will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination in
favour of another.
9.0  The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
admission cards and a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received on or before the application
closing date. A notification will be published in newspapers as
soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates by the
Department of Examinations. If the admission card is not received
even after 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch of
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. You are informed to inquire from the Department of
Examinations with a copy of the application and a copy of the
receipt relevant to payment of examination fee in hand and stating
the name of the examination applied for, full name, address and the
NIC number of the candidate. It would be advisable for candidates
outside Colombo to fax a letter of request to the Department of
Examinations through fax indicating the above details and a fax
number for sending a copy of the admission.Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall.
Note.– Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
10.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No traveling expenses will be paid.
11.0 The written test shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. The officers may answer three question papers either in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry eamination to the
service or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered
the service without a competitive examination may answer three
question papers in their medium of education or in one of the
official languages. The language medium of examination, mentioned
originally in the application, cannot be changed subsequently.
12.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject at different
occasions at their discretion. However they should score at least
40% of the total marks for each subject, for a pass. (Refer Annex 06
of the Public Management Assistants’ Service Minute).

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
361
13.0 Department of Examinations shall release the results of the
examination to the Director General of Combined Services, Ministry
of Public Adminsitration, Provincial Councils, Local Government
and Democratic Governance and names of the successful candidates
will be published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
14.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written
examination that will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Marks Duration Subject Cut
No. off
marks
1 Establishment 100 01 1/2 hours 01 40
Procedure and
Procedural Rules
2 Public Finance 100 01 1/2 hours 02 40
Management
3 Current trends 100 01 hours 03 40
14.1 Establishment Procedure and Procedural Rules :
This paper shall consist of two parts and one shall
consist of the questions to test the proficiency of the
experience gained on the knowledge of fundamentals of
office systems, their importance, written
communication, documentation and compiling formats
and office activities. The other part shall consist of
questions to test the knowledge on practical knowledge
on matters contained in V olume I and II of the
establishments Code and V olume I of the Procedural
Rules of Public Service Commission :–
Part I – This is a question paper consisting of
multiple choice questions. Duration is 30
minutes. (25 marks) ;
Part II – This is a question paper consisting of semi
structured essay type questions. Three
questions out of four shall be answered.
Duration is 60 minutes.  (75 marks).
14.2 Public Finance Management :
It is expected to test the candidates’ knowledge on the
subjects in government departments, offices and
ministries such as Financial Control, Custody of Public
money, revenue and payment, budget estimates, supply
and services (basis knowledge on board of survey and
store keeping, financial regulations and auditing and basic
banking practice):–
Part I – This is a question paper consisting of
multiple choice questions. Duration is 30
minutes. (25 marks) ;
Part II – This is a question paper consisting of semi
structured essay type questions. Three
questions out of four shall be answered.
Duration is 60 minutes.  (75 marks).
14.3 Current Trends :
This paper shall consist of a part designed to test the
candidates’ knowledge on current, local and international
events and a part designed to test the candidates’
knowledge on new trends on office managements,
service delivery of public sector and good governance.
This question paper shall consist of multiple choice
questions and semi structured essay type questions.
(All the questions shall be answered)
15.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
shall be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
16.0 In the  event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English text of this examination notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial
Councils, Local Government and
Democratic Governance.
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils,
Local Gvernment and Democratic Governance,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
20th of February, 2015.
Specimen Application Form
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
GRADE I OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE -  2014(I) (2015)
(Only the officers in Grade I of Public Management Assistants'
Service which belongs to the Combined Service are qualified to
apply as per this examination notification)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the town in which you intend to sit the examination
according to your preference as per section 3.0 of the Gazette
Notification) (This cannot be altered subsequently).

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
362
The service to which you belong (Please refer the
note of para 5.0 of the Gazette Notification
carefully before filling this section)
Language Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the box).
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
Eg: GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by inititals :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Name and Address of the Service Station :
2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals).
2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
 3.0 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.).
4.0 N. I. C. No.  :
5.0 Subject/s you are offering :
 Subject Subject No:
6.0 Post held at present :
6.1 Post :–––––––––––.
6.2 Appointment letter number :–––––––––––.
6.3 Date of appointment to Grade I of Public Management
Assistants’ Service :–––––––––––.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
7.2 If not,
(i) Examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of payment :–––––––––––.
(iii) Office to which the payment has been made :––––.
(iv) Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
One edge of the receipt should be affixed so as not
to be detached  (It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt.)
8.0 Declaration of the applicant :
I, declare that the information furnished above is correct and I
am eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the examination fee
since I am sitting for the examination for the first time/the receipt
issued on payment of examination fee of Rs. ...................... to the
post office ...................... on ...................... is affixed above. I agree
to abide by the decisions made by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting of the examination and all the provisions
of the Examination Act.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of his/her respective Head of Department or an officer
assigned to sign on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is an
employee of my office and who is personally known to me placed
his/her signature in my presence on ........................ Since he/she is
sitting for the examination for the first time it is advisable to exempt
him/her from the examination fee/has paid the examination fee and
the receipt has been affixed.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the person attesting.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
9.0 CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii) The officer belongs to the Combined Service ;
(iii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination
previously ;

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
363
(iv) The officer has appeared for the examination previously
and *he/she has affixed the receipt of the fees for the
relevent examination ;
(v) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
03–210
––––––––––––––––––––
Correction Notice
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
 ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE  -  2011(II) 2015
THIS is with reference to the above heading Notice No. 02-226
published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka Gazette No. 1,901 dated 06.02.2015.
“The time duration for subject No. 01 and 02 in the Paragraph
No. 14.0 has been published incorrectly as 01 hour.
It should be corrected as follows :
Subject Subject Marks Duration
No.
(i) Office systems 01 100 02 hours
(ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 02 hours
K. V . P. M. J. GAMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial
Councils, Local Government and
Democratic Governance.
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils,
Local Government and Democratic Governance,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
20th of February, 2015.
03–211

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
364
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.
B9 - B80916

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2015
365
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
MARCH 06.03.2015 Friday — 20.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
13.03.2015 Friday –– 27.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
20.03.2015 Friday –– 06.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
27.03.2015 Friday –– 13.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 02.04.2015 Thursday — 20.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
10.04.2015 Friday –– 27.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2015 Friday –– 02.04.2015 Thursday 12 noon
24.04.2015 Friday –– 10.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.04.2015 Thursday –– 17.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
MAY 08.05.2015 Friday — 24.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
15.05.2015 Friday –– 30.04.2015 Thursday 12 noon
22.05.2015 Friday –– 08.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
29.05.2015 Friday –– 15.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.