

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2410$09 - 2024 fkdjeïn¾ ui 17 jeks bßod - 2024.11.17
No. 2410/09 -  suNday,   November   17 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - G 43112 - 06 (11/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
07Th   AmENDmENT
The medical Service minute of the Sri Lanka health  Service
The medical service minute of the sri Lanka health service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1883/17, dated           
11th october 2014 of the democratic socialist republic of  sri  Lanka as amended by the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned 
in Part I below is amended as following Part II.  other matters and conditions stated therein remain unchanged.
                                                           by order of the Public service Commission,
 W. h. m. m. C. K. Dayaratne,
 secretary,
 Public service Commission.
12th of November, 2024.
Part I 
amendment  No.  0 1 -  Gazette extraordinary No. 1950/4, dated 18th January 2016
amendment No. 02 - Gazette extraordinary No. 1981/45, dated 24th august 2016
amendment No. 03  - Gazette extraordinary No. 1996/46, dated 09th december 2016 
amendment No.   04 - Gazette extraordinary No. 2218/50, dated 09th march 2021 
amendment No.   05 - Gazette extraordinary No. 2277/59, dated 29th april 2022 
amendment No. 06 - Gazette extraordinary No. 2263/83, dated 22nd december  2023

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'11'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.11.2024
2a
Part II
The table mentioned under 11.1.2 Education and other Qualifications of appointment to Medical administrative Grade” will 
be substituted by the following table. other matters remain unchanged.
Post/Grade (a) Educational and Other Qualifications
1 1.1.2.1 Deputy medical  
Administrative Grade
I. A Medical Officer or Dental Surgeon or Specialist Medical Officer with post 
graduate qualification listed in appendix II of the medical service m inute is 
eligible to  apply for deputy medical administrative Grade posts  mentioned 
in appendix III.
II. No marks will be awarded for the basic qualification mentioned above and 
in addition, additional marks will be  awarded for a Medical Officer or Dental 
surgeon or  Specialist Medical Officer who has obtained a postgraduate  
qualification higher than the above basic qualification  mentioned in 
appendix II or a md mentioned in appendix  I.
III. A Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon/Specialist Medical Officer with 8 years 
continuous service in the department (8 years will be calculated from the 
date of entry to the           Preliminary Grade) who has been promoted to grade II            
and passed  the  Efficiency  Bar Examination.
Iv . equal  posts   that   fall   under   the   deputy   medical  administrative Grade 
will be included in  appendix III and  this includes any post created from time 
to time  as  per service requirements.
V . Age Limit : Since all the officers are already 
i n the public  service, maximum 
age limit is not applicable.
vI. 
should not have been subject to  a  disciplinary  punishment as per the 
provisions m Public service  Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and other 
circulars  incidental thereto.
Post/Grade (a) Educational and Other Qualifications
1 1.1.2.2 Senior  medical  
Administrative Grade
I. A   Medical   Officer   or  Dental   surgeon   or  specialist Medical  Officer 
who possesses  a msc. (medical admin) or msc. (Com.  med.  or  Com.  
dentistry)  listed  in   the appendix  II  of the  medical  service  minute  
is  eligible to apply   for   a   post    in   the   senior   administrative     Grade 
mentioned in appendix I v .
II.  No   marks  will   be   awarded   for  the   basic qualification mentioned 
above and additional marks will be awarded for a  Medical Officer or Dental 
surgeon or specialist medical  Officer who possesses a MD (Medical Admin.) 
or  md  (Com. med. or Com. dentistry).
III. should have completed a minimum of 3years of satisfactory service in 
the deputy medical administrative  Grade.
Iv . The equal posts falling under  the  senior  medical  administrative 
Grade are included in appendix I v  and it  includes any posts created from 
time to time as per the  service requirements.
Note 7: Mandatory qualifications for each post  falling  under the senior 
medical administrative grade shall be  mentioned in appendix Iv  and these 
posts shall be  considered as equal posts.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'11'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.11.2024
3a
Post/Grade (a) Educational and Other Qualifications
1 1.1.2.2 Senior  medical  
Administrative Grade
v . When the applications are called for  the  said  posts  the  applicants should 
have the relevant mandatory postgraduate  qualifications listed in appendix IV .
vI. Age Limit : Since all the officers are already in the public service, 
maximum age limit is not applicable.
vII. should not have been subject to a disciplinary
 punishment as per the 
provisions in Public service  Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and other 
circulars  incidental thereto.
Post/Grade (a) Educational and Other Qualifications
1 1.1.2.3 Deputy Director - General 
Grade
I. a m edical Officer or Dental Surgeon or Specialist  Medical Officer who 
possesses a ms c. (m edical a dmin.)  or ms c (Com. m ed. or Com. d entistry) 
listed in the  appendix II of the medical service minute is eligible to  apply 
for the posts in the deputy director General Grade  mentioned in appendix v .
II. No marks will be awarded for the basic qualification mentioned above and 
additional marks will be awarded for a  Medical Officer or Dental Surgeon 
or specialist medical  Officer who possesses a MD (Medical Admin.) or  
md  (Com. Med. or Com. Dentistry) or a Board Certificate (medical admin.) 
or Board Certificate (Com. Med. or Com.  dentistry).
III. Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons of Senior medical administrative 
Grade  are eligible to be appointed  as deputy director General Grade 
Officers.
Iv . The posts falling under the deputy director General  Grade are mentioned 
in appendix v  and  it  includes any  post created from time to time as per 
service requirements.
v.  Age Limit: Since all the officers are already in the  public service, 
maximum age limit is not applicable.
vI. There will be no promotion scheme for this grade.
vII. The general guide lines pertaining to the appointment  under section 
11.1.1 of this minute shall apply where  necessary.
vIII. all the posts falling under the  deputy  d irector  General Grade mentioned 
in appendix v  shall be considered             as  end post and are not subject to transfers.
IX. should not have been subject to a disciplinary  punishment as per the 
provisions in Public service  Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and other 
circulars  incidental thereto
Note 8: In addition to the above qualifications, as a special  circumstance, 
the qualification of MSc.(Community  dentistry) shall also be considered 
as a basic qualification  for the post of deputy director General (dental 
service) as  mentioned in appendixV . In the absence of officers having such 
qualification, the officers possessing MSc. (Com. m ed. or medical a dmin.) 
qualification will also be considered.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'11'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.11.2024
4a
Post/Grade (a) Educational and Other Qualifications
 Note 9 : however   these  mandatory   q ual  ifications will  not  be applicable    to   
those    officers   who    hold    the    posts    in    the senior  medical   admi nistrative   
or  deputy   director   General posts   as   at   the   effective  date   of   the   Gazette  
No.    1493/3 dated    16.04.2007.   They   can   hold  their   present   posts   and 
they    can    be    appointed    to   any    other    post    falling    under appendixv ,   
irrespective  of  the  mandatory   qualification.
appendix Iv - In appendix Iv  which contains the posts under the senior medical administrative  Grade, each place 
which indicates the mandatory qualification relevant to each post  under the column “Mandatory Academic Qualifica-
tion” required for the promotion to those posts will be  amended as follows.
As  it appreats  in  the  Service Minute Mandatory Qualification (The manner it is amended)
1 msc. /md(Com med. /
Com.dentistry/med ical admin.)
msc. (Com med. /Com dentistry/ medical ad min.)
2 msc. /md (medical admin.) msc. (medical admin.)
3 msc. /md(medical admin./Com. 
dentisty)
msc. (Com med. /Com. dentistry)
4 md (medical admin./Com. denistry) msc. (Com med. /Com. dentistry)
appendix v - In appendix v  which contains the posts under the deputy director General Grade,  each place which 
indicates the mandatory qualification relevant to each post under the column  “Mandatory Academic Qualification 
required” for the promotion to those posts will be amended as  follows.
As  it appreats  in  the  Service Minute Mandatory Qualification (The manner it is amended)
1 msc. /md (Com med. /med ical admin.) msc. (Com med. / medical ad min.)
2 msc. /md (medical admin.) msc. (medical admin.)
3 msc. /md Com. med.) msc. (Com med.)
4 msc. /md (Com. med. /Com. denistry/ 
medical admin.)
msc. (Com med. /Com. dentistry/medical admin.)
Interim provision
Application of the basic qualification mentioned in 11.1.2.2 and 11.1.2.3 respectively  when  selecting to the posts in 
senior medical administrative Grade and deputy d irector General Grade,  shall come in to force from the effective 
date of this amendment. When selecting the officers who  are in the posts in deputy medical administrative Grade 
and senior medical administrative Grade  as at that effective date to the posts actions shall be taken as follows for the 
period from the effective  date of this amendment only up to an interim period of 03 years.
I. When applying to the senior medical administrative grade, marks will be awarded either to  msc. (medical 
a dministration/Com m ed./Community dentistry) or to md  (m edical  a dministration/Com m ed/Community d entistry) 
depending  on the  highest  qualification obtained by the officer.
II. marks    will   be   awarded    either   to    msc.      ( medical    administration/Com    med./Community dentistry )   or  to   
md   ( medical   administration/Com    med/Community   dentistry )   depend ing   on   the h i ghest  q ualification  obtained   by  
the  officer when  applying  to  the  deputy   director  General   grade.
eoG  11- 0137
PrINTed a T The deP ar TmeNT oF GoverNmeNT PrINTING,  srI LaNKa.