

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 15,  2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 15th December, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
JAPAN - SRI  LANKA  EDUCATIONAL  AND
CULTURAL  ASSOCIATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  N O . 52  OF  2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural
 Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2006
1
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Japan -
Sri Lanka
Educational
and Cultural
Association.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
[Certified on 15th December 2006]
L. D. O.INC-11/2003
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  JAPAN  - SRI LANKA  EDUCATIONAL  AND
C ULTURAL  ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS an association called and known as the “Japan-
Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural Association” has
heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Japan - Sri Lanka
Educational and Cultural Association (Incorporation) Act,
No. 52 of 2006.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Japan-
Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural Association (hereinafter
referred to as “the Association”, or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “Japan-Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural
Association” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)and
by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full
power and authority to have and to use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to conduct courses for the teaching of foreign
languages and to provide higher educational and
diploma courses in such studies ;

<!-- page 3 -->

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2006
2
(b) to conduct courses for the teaching of Sinhala, Tamil
and English to foreigners ;
(c) to award certificates of merit to students who
complete successfully, the courses being conducted;
(d) to prepare students who are following the relevent
courses, for examinations conducted in the
respective courses ;
(e) to conduct all courses under the supervision of a
qualified and skilled staff and to have the syllabuses
of all language courses prepared by the National
Institute of Education established by the National
Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985;
(f) to select with the approval of the respective
Ministries of the Ministers in charge of the subject
of V ocational Training, Education and Social
Services, students with special ability to
learn respective languages and provide future
training to such students;
(g) to establish and maintain libraries,  to subscribe to
books, papers, periodicals, magazines, commerative
issues etc. and to publish such literature and to
provide such other services as may be deemed
desirable for attaining the objects of the
Corporation ;
(h) to promote, sponsor and conduct lectures,
conferences, philosophical discussions, seminars,
workshops, group studies, recreational activities,
excursions and other such activities;
(i) to corporate and associate with other associations
or organizations which have objects similar to those
of the Corporation; and
(j) to act as an affiliate institute of any local or foreign
technical or vocational training institute or a

<!-- page 4 -->

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural
 Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2006
3
representative of such an organization and to launch
Cultural Exchange Programms with foreign
countries.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
any one or more of the objects of the Corporation  including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants as are
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions this Act and the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, be administered by a Board of Directors
consisting of not less than ten members including the Patron,
and the Chairman, the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary and
the Treasurer who shall be elected in accordance with the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in subsection  (1)  of  this  section,  Mr.  Takashi  Doshita  and
Mr. Masanori Toyoda shall be the life patrons of the
Corporation and their successors shall be nominated by them
to be the patrons therefor.  The persons succeeding them
shall also be life patrons.
(3) The first Chairman of the Corporation shall be  the
Chairman of the Association holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from  time to
time, at any general meeting and by a vote of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the admission, resignation and expulsion of
members of the Corporation ;
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2006
4
(b) the powers, duties and functions of the Board of
Directors and office bearers of the Corporation ;
(c) the conduct of meetings and the procedure to be
followed at such meetings;
(d) the appointment, dismissal and terms of
employment of employees of the Corporation and
their duties and functions ;
(e) the code of conduct to be observed by the employees
of the Corporation; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the attainment of its objects.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
(3) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in like manner as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
7. All debts and liabilities of the association existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payble to the
association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and the Secretary of the Corporation who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as witness.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations, contributions, fees or grants shall be
deposited by the Corporation in one or more banks as the
corporation shall determine.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Association.
Funds of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural
 Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2006
5
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the
excercise and discharge of the powers and functions of the
Corporation shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.
10. (1) The Board of Directors shall cause proper books
of accounts to be kept of all income and expenditure of the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall, not less than
once in every year be examined, audited and certified by a
qualified auditor who shall be an associate member of the
Institute of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka.
11. The Corporation shall be able to and capable in law,
to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
subscription, grant, gift,  testamentary disposition or otherwise
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

Japan - Sri Lanka Educational and Cultural
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 52 of 2006
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.