

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1917
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"034 – 2017 wf.daia;= ui 25 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'08'25
No. 2,034 –  fRiday ,  august  25, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th september, 2017 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st august, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer (Acting)
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part iii of the Gazette No. 2,033 of 18.08.2017 was not published.
1915-B 81201- 5,403 (08/2017)
N. B.– (i) Judicature (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of august 18, 2017.
 (ii) Motor Traffic (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of august 18, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1916
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1917
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Notification of Calling Applications - Open 
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR 
REcRuitmENt of officERs to gRadE iii of 
sRi LaNka  ENgiNEERiNg sERVicE – 2016/2017
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called on the order of 
Public service commission for the open competitive 
Examination held for recruitment of suitable officers to 
fill the vacancies in the posts belonging to the categories 
of civil, mechanical, Electrical (Heavy and Light), 
chemical and mineral Resources Engineers in grade 
iii of sri Lanka Engineering service at the institutions 
located all over the island. the applications prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application indicated at the 
end of this notification shall be sent by Registered Post 
to reach the secretary, ministry of Public administration 
and management, colombo 07 on or before the following 
date. the top left corner of the envelope containing the 
application shall clearly bear the words “open competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to the Posts in the Executive 
service category in grade iii of sri Lanka Engineering 
service  – 2016/2017”.
(a) closing date of applications is 25.09.2017
Note: complaints on applications or any relevant 
document getting lost or delayed in the post shall 
not be considered. the candidate shall bear the 
losses, which may occur due to their delay in 
sending applications until the closing date. 
the number of posts in grade iii of sri Lanka 
Engineering Service that should be filled through the 
recruitment of officers to Sri Lanka Engineer ing service 
on open basis is 229 and it shall be divided under the 
following categories :
Category Number of Vacancies
civil 162
mechanical 15
Electrical 09
mineral Resources 42
chemical 01
total 229
1.  method of recruitment to the service
 1.1.  only Engineers who possess professional 
qualifications in the relevant streams are 
recruited under the open stream. the effective 
date of appointment and the number of 
appointments shall be determined by the 
Public service commission. Public service 
Commission reserves the authority to fill all the 
vacancies or a certain number of vacancies.   
 1.1.1 at the instances where the number of 
applications received for appointments 
under each category is higher than 
the number of vacancies to which it is 
proposed to be recruited under the said 
categories, recruitment of officers is 
made after verification of qualifications 
at the interview for which the candidates 
are called on the order of marks of the 
written test. 
 1.1.2 at the instances where the number of 
applications received for appointments 
under each category is lower than the 
number of vacancies to which it is 
proposed to be recruited under the said 
categories, recruitment of officers is 
made through a structured interview. 
(Verification of qualifications for the 
post shall be made during the structured 
interview itself).
2.  Conditions for Engagement in Service 
 2.1.  a selected candidate shall be appointed to 
grade iii of sri Lanka Engineering service 
subjected to the general conditions governing 
the appointments in the Public service and also 
subjected to the terms and conditions set out in 
the minute of sri Lanka Engineering service 
published in the Gazette extraordinary of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka 
No. 1836/6 dated 11.11.2013 and any revisions 
made or to be made hereafter to the aforesaid 
minute. 
 2.2.  this post is permanent and it is subjected to 
any policy decision made by the government 
with regard to the pension scheme in future. 
further, contributions shall be made to the 
Widows and orphans/ Widowers and orphans 
Pension scheme. 
 2.3.  The officers appointed to this post shall be 
subjected to a probation period of three (03) 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1918
years and they shall pass the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination within the said three (03) 
years. 
 2.4.  The level of proficiency in other official 
language shall be adacquired within five 
(05) years as per the provisions in the Public 
administration circular 01/2014 dated 
21.01.2014 and the consequent circulars. 
The officers who have joined the service in 
a language medium other than an official 
language shall acquire the proficiency in one 
of the official languages within the probation 
period.    
 2.5.  this appointment shall be made subjected to 
the Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission, Establishments code of 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations of the government and 
other departmental orders. 
 2.6.  the appointees shall be prepared to serve in 
any part of the island in which they are called 
upon to serve.
 2.7. appointees shall be subjected to serve in both 
Public service as well as Provincial Public 
service.
 2.8. the appointments of the appointees, who fail 
to assume duties of the post on due date and/
or reject or avoid assuming duties of a post or 
area where he/she is appointed, are liable to be 
cancelled.
3.  Salary Scale.– the salary scale (monthly) sL-1-2016, 
Rs. 47,615 – 10x 1,335 – 8x 1,630 – 17 x 2170 – 110,895/- 
is entitled to this post as per Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016. (you are paid the salaries as per the 
provisions of Public administration circular No. 03/2016 
dated 25.02.2016 as indicated in schedule ii of the same).
However, when an officer has possessed full 
professional qualifications (status of Chartered Engineer) 
at the time of appointment or possesses the full professional 
qualifications after recruitment the said officer shall be 
placed on sixth (6
th) salary step in grade iii of the service.   
    
4.  Educational and Professional Qualifications :
 4.1  Educational Qualifications:  
 4.1.1  shall have successfully completed a full 
time B.sc. Engineering degree course of 
four (04) years under a stream on which 
recruitments are made and recognized 
by the said commission and institute 
of Engineers, sri Lanka at a university 
recognized by the university grants 
commission and obtained the degree
or
 4.1.2  Shall have obtained a valid certificate 
by following a course and completing 
all studies and requirements in a stream 
on which recruitments are made and 
accepted as equivalent to the degree 
course mentioned in 4.1.1 above by 
the university grants commission and 
institute of Engineers, sri Lanka.
 
 4.2  Professional Qualifications :
 4.2.1. Shall have obtained the valid certificate 
issued by institute of Engineers, sri Lanka 
to prove that the recognized educational 
requirements and qualifications have 
been satisfied to obtain the membership 
of the said institution.    
5. Age Limit :
 5.1  the applicant shall be not less than 21 years of 
age and not more than 35 years of age as at the 
closing date of the application. 
 5.2  However, the maximum age limit for a 
Technical Officer in Public Service or 
Provincial Public service [Engineering 
assistant belonging to Engineering assistants’ 
service of the department of irrigation 
(Former Technical Assistant) or an officer 
holding the post of supervising manager of 
the department of Railways or a technical 
Officer in Public Service/Provincial Public 
service belonging to sri Lanka technological 
Service and possessing qualifications approved 
by the appointing authority] who has joined the 
service before 11.11.2013, shall be 45 years. 
 
6. Physical Qualifications. – Every candidate shall be 
physically fit in every aspect to perform the duties of the 
post and to serve in any part of sri Lanka.
7. Other Qualifications :
 7.1  applicants shall be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 7.2  applicants shall be of excellent moral 
character.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1919
 7.3  the subjects indicated in the academic 
transcripts based on which the certificates 
relevant to the qualifications prescribed under 
section 4 above are issued, shall be conformed 
in every aspect to the requirements of categories 
to which recruitments are made. 
 7.4  No person ordained in any religious order shall 
become qualified to apply.
 7.5  A Technical Officer who is qualified under 5.2 
above shall have been confirmed in the post 
and shall complete 05 years of a satisfactory 
service period immediately preceding the 
closing date of applications. 
 7.6  All the qualifications and conditions required 
for recruitment to the post shall have been 
satisfied in each and every way as at the closing 
date of applications.
8. Written Examination and the Interview or 
Structured Interview :
 8.1  at the instances where the number of 
applications received under each category is 
less than the number of vacancies for which 
it is proposed to be recruited under the said 
categories,
 8.1.1  a written examination shall not be 
conducted for recruitment of officers 
proposed to be recruited under the 
categories for which the number of 
applications received is less than the 
number of vacancies and a structured 
interview shall be conducted to determine 
their order of seniority.  
 8.1.2 the structured interview shall be 
conducted by a structured interview 
Board appointed by the Public service 
commission and marks shall be allocated 
and qualifications indicated in Sri 
Lanka Engineering service minute and 
Notification published in accordance 
to the same shall be verified and the 
physical fitness shall be examined at the 
same interview.
 8.1.3  Recruitments shall be made to grade iii 
of the service on the order of merit from 
the applicant who has secured the highest 
marks on the aggregate marks secured at 
the structured interview, when making 
the number of recruitments expected to 
be made in accordance with the number 
of vacancies.
 8.1.4  Structured interview :
 (i)  the total marks awarded at the 
structured interview is 100.
 (ii) the minimum marks shall not be 
reduced due to any reason. 
 (iii)  marks are allocated at the structured 
interview in the following manner.  
 
Sections under which 
marks are allocated at the 
structured interview
maximum 
marks
01 Educational 
Q u a l i fi c a t i o n s                                                                                                     
    60
02 service Experience                                                                                                                    10
03 additional Educational 
Q u a l i fi c a t i o n s                                                                                    
    20
04 External skills/special 
skills                                                                                                  
    05
05 skills proved at the 
interview                                                                                               
    05
                                     total    100
N.B.: 
 (a)  appearing for the interview does not 
necessarily mean that the applicant has 
fulfilled the requisite qualifications to grant the 
appointment. 
 (b)  When the marks are given under each category 
as per the structured marking scheme, all the 
relevant qualifications should be verified by 
submitting the certificates.
 (c)  in addition to the originals, the applicants 
should submit a photocopy for each certificate 
with their signature placed on the photocopy 
certifying them as true copies, at the relevant 
interview. 
 8.2  at the instances where the number of 
applications received under each category is 
more than the number of vacancies for which 
it is proposed to be recruited under the said 
categories,

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1920
 8.2.1  a written test shall be conducted for 
recruitment of officers proposed to be 
recruited under the categories for which 
the number of applications received is 
more than the number of vacancies and 
the applicants shall be called for a general 
interview on the order of marks secured 
at the written test.
 8.2.2  this grade examination shall be conducted 
with the objective of determining the 
order of recruitment of the Engineers who 
have satisfied the qualifications indicated 
in Para. 4 above. 
 8.2.3  the written test shall be conducted by 
the director general of the institute of 
development administration.
 8.2.4  Syllabus of the written test :
 (i) this examination shall be limited to 
a written aptitude test which carries 
100 marks with the objective of 
measuring the ability of the candidate 
on critical reasoning, analytical 
power and ability for decision making 
based on the knowledge obtained 
through the study of Engineering 
science mentioned in 4 above. the 
examination paper shall consist of 
multiple choice questions and the 
duration of the question paper is           
1 ½ hours. all the questions shall be 
answered.
 8.2.5  a general interview is conducted by 
a general interview Board appointed 
by Public service commission and 
the qualifications indicated in Sri 
Lanka Engineering service minute and 
Notification published in accordance 
to the same shall be verified and the 
physical fitness shall be examined at the 
same interview.
 8.3  a candidate shall submit the relevant 
certificates and documents at the relevant 
interview and all the documents/ certificates 
shall be valid in every aspect. any document/ 
certificate submitted subjected to the covering 
approval of the competent authority shall not 
be valid.
 8.4  in addition to the originals, the applicants 
should submit a photocopy for each certificate 
with their signature placed on the photocopy 
certifying them as true copies, at the relevant 
interview.
 8.5  Public service commission shall make an 
appropriate decision at the instances where 
several candidates have secured same marks 
and its decision shall be the final. 
9. Conditions of the examination :
 9.1  this examination shall be held in sinhala, 
tamil and English media. candidates shall sit 
for the examination in one language of their 
preference. candidates shall not be allowed 
to change the medium mentioned in the 
application. 
 9.2  the examination fee is Rs. 1000.00. it shall 
be paid before the closing date of applications 
at any branch of the Bank of ceylon around 
sri Lanka in favour of “secretary, ministry 
of Public administration and management” 
and the customer copy of the cash deposit slip 
obtained in favour of the candidate shall be 
pasted in the relevant place of the application 
so as not to be detached. it would be advisable 
to keep a copy of it with the candidate. 
  include the following details in the relevant 
cash deposit slip when crediting the cash. 
  Name of the account holder - secretary, 
ministry of Public administration and 
management address of the account holder – 
independence square, colombo 07
  Bank account number – 7040712
  Bank of ceylon – independence square Branch 
 9.3  Even though, only a structured interview 
is conducted without conducting a written 
examination under the relevant category, under 
no circumstances the examination fee shall be 
refunded. 
 9.4  the examination shall be held in colombo and 
the date shall be informed in due course.
 9.5  incomplete applications shall be rejected 
without notice.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1921
Note: No candidate shall be permitted to enter the 
examination hall without the admission card. 
only the admission cards on which the signature 
has been attested shall be submitted to the 
supervisor of the examination on the first day of 
the examination.
N.B: the issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate does not mean that he or she has 
fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit for 
the examination. 
 9.6   applications should be prepared in a paper of 
a4 in size and No. 1.0 to 5.0 should appear on 
the first page, No. 6.0 to 7.0 should appear on 
the second page, No. 8.0 to 11.0 should appear 
on the third page and No. 12 should appear 
on the fourth page.  applications should be 
completed legibly by the candidate in his/her 
own handwriting. the title of the examination 
indicated in the application should be in 
English Language as well, on both sinhala and 
tamil application forms. since the applications 
which are incomplete and not prepared in 
accordance with the specimen form shall be 
rejected without any notice, applicants should 
recheck whether the perfected application 
form complies with the specimen given in 
the examination notice and the application is 
perfected including all the particulars and the 
examination fee has been paid on due time and 
the particulars of the same have been included 
in the application and the receipt is attached. 
further, it is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the perfected application. 
 9.7 Receipt of application shall not be 
acknowledged. the admission cards shall be 
issued by the director general of sri Lanka 
institute of development administration to 
the applicants who are within the age limit 
indicated in the notification and who have 
sent the correctly perfected applications along 
with the receipt relevant to payment of the 
examination fees paid on or before the closing 
date of applications. if the admission card is 
not received at least 5 days before the date of 
the examination indicated in the notification, 
steps should be taken to notify the director 
general of sri Lanka institute of development 
administration.  at the time of such inquiry, 
the name of the examination applied for, full 
Name of the applicant, National identity card 
Number and address should be indicated 
correctly. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
it would be more beneficial to send a letter of 
request with a fax number to which a copy of 
the admission card should be sent promptly 
to the fax number 011-5288978 of sri Lanka 
institute of development administration. it 
would be advisable to keep the following in 
hand at the time of such inquiry to prove any 
particular requested by sri Lanka institute of 
Development Administration: i.e. certified 
photocopies of the application form and the 
receipt of the examination fees paid, receipt of 
registration kept at your possession. 
 9.8  sri Lanka institute of development administration 
reserves the power to conduct, postpone or 
cancel the examination on the approval of the 
Public service commission.
 9.9  candidates shall be subjected to rules and 
regulations imposed by the director general 
of sri Lanka institute of development 
administration on conducting the examination. 
they are liable to be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the director general of sri Lanka 
institute of development administration for 
breach of these rules and regulations. 
 9.10  Identity of the candidate.–  a  candidate 
shall be required to prove his identity at the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor.  for this purpose, only one of the 
following documents shall be accepted.
 • National Identity Card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons ;
 • A Valid Passport.
 9.11  Officers who are serving in Public Service/ 
Provincial Public service, government 
corporations shall send their applications 
through the respective Head of the department/ 
institution. it is compulsory for every applicant 
to get his/ her signature on the application and 
admission card attested before appearing for 
the examination. an applicant who is appearing 
for the examination through an institution shall 
get his/ her signature attested by the Head of the 
institution where he serves. other applicants 
shall get their signature attested by a Principal 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1922
of a g overnment school/ retired Principle, 
grama Niladhari of the division, Justice of 
Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-
Law, Notary Public, commissioned officer 
in the armed forces, an officer in staff 
grade holding a permanent post in public 
or provincial public service whose annual 
consolidated salary is more than Rs. 240,360/- or 
a chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or chief 
Prelate or other clergy holding considerable 
position as the chief Priest of a religious place. 
N.B.: 
 (a)  Copies of the certificates indicated under 
Para. 4 above and the certified copies of the 
academic transcripts based on which the said 
certificates have been issued shall be attached 
to the application. 
 (b)  the applications of the candidates who are 
unable to submit relevant documents whenever 
they are requested shall not be considered.
10.  Procedural Rules of Public service commission, 
circulars issued from time to time in relation to public 
service and the conditions of the service minute relevant to 
(For Office Use)
   
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRuitmENt of officERs to gRadE iii of sRi LaNka 
ENgiNEERiNg sERVicE  - 2016/2017
     Language medium of examination category applied for
 sinhala 2  civil 1
 t amil 3  mechanical 2
 English 4  Electrical (Heavy and Light) 3
indicate the relevant number in the cage  chemical 4
    mineral Resources 5
                                                                                         indicate the relevant number in the cage
01. Name: 
 1.1 Name, with initials at the end (in English block capitals): mr./mrs./miss. :––––––––––.   
  Eg. mr. guNaWaRdHaNa, m.g.B.s.k.
 1.2 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
  (in the language in which it is indicated in the National identity card)
grade iii of Executive service category and the revisions 
made thereto are relevant to this post. 
11. after the appropriate date to issue the results 
is informed by the secretary, ministry of Public 
administration and management, the director general of 
sri Lanka institute of development administration shall 
take action to send a result sheet to all the applicants who 
have sat for the examination indicating the results they 
have obtained at the written examination.
12. in the event of any inconsistency between sinhala, 
tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.  
       
on the order of Public service commission,
 J.J. 
RathnasiRi.
 secretary,
 ministry of Public administration and  
 management.    
    
ministry of Public administration and management,
independence square,
colombo 07,
07th august, 2017. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1923
02. 2.1  Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2  address to which the admission card should be sent: (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
 2.3  telephone No. : fixed :––––––––––.
                      mobile :––––––––––.
 2.4  Postal city :––––––––––.
 2.5  E-mail :––––––––––.
03. sex: 
  (male – 0, female – 1)                      indicate the relevant number in the cage
04.  National identity card Number :   
05. 5.1  Ethnicity:      indicate the relevant number in the cage   
  (sinhala – 1/ tamil – 2/ i.tamil – 3/ muslim – 4/ other- 5)
 5.2  marital status:  indicate the relevant number in the cage
  (unmarried – 1/ married – 2)
 5.3  date of Birth: year  month   date 
 5.4  age as at the closing date of applications :  years  months  days 
06. 6.1  Educational qualifications :
 (i)  Effective date of the degree or the qualifications mentioned in Para. 4.1.2 of the Gazette notification :–––––––.
 (ii)  university/ institution :––––––––––.
 (iii)  Number and date of registration :––––––––––.
 (iv)  Name of the course: (eg.: Bsc Engineering) :––––––––––.
 (v)  stream: (eg.: civil, mechanical, Electrical, chemical, mineral Resources) :––––––––––.
 (vi)  Year of completing the degree or the qualifications mentioned in Para. 4.1.2 of the Gazette notification 
:––––––––––.
 (vii)  Subjects studied in the final year :––––––––––.
 (viii)  Language medium in which the candidate sat for the examination :––––––––––.
 6.2  Professional qualifications (eg.: amiE, micE, miE) :––––––––––.
 (i) membership number of the institute of Engineers sri Lanka :
07.  Post held at present and particulars of the posts held previously, if any: 
    (the dates of joining the service and resigning and reasons for the same should be indicated)  
 7.1  Post :––––––––––.
 7.2  department/ institution :––––––––––.
 7.3  date of appointment :––––––––––.
 7.4  Whether it is permanent/ pensionable/ non pensionable/ temporary :––––––––––.
 7.5  Whether the officer has been confirmed in the post :––––––––––.
 7.6  salary scale of the post and salary received at present :––––––––––.
 7.7  Particulars of the posts held previously: (candidate may use another paper) :––––––––––.
 7.8  Have you ever been subjected to disciplinary punishment while holding any of the posts mentioned herein? 
:–––––––––––.
  if yes, indicate the particulars of the offense and punishment imposed :––––––––––.
08. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law for a criminal offense? :––––––––––.
  if yes, indicate the particulars of such conviction and penalty imposed :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.08.2017
1924
09. Please paste the customer’s copy of the receipt along one side so as not to be detached (it will be advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the customer copy of the receipt with the candidates)  :––––––––––.
 Branch of the bank to which the payment has been made :––––––––––.
 date :––––––––––.
10.  Certification of the applicant :
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware 
that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before 
selection; to dismissal from service without compensation, if detected after appointment. 
further, i hereby state that i am bound by the rules and regulations with regard to conducting the examination and 
issuing the results imposed by the Public service commission and director general of sri Lanka institute of development 
administration.
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
11.0  attestation of the signature of the applicant (as per 9.10 of the Gazette Notification) :
i hereby certify that (name in full) mr./mrs/miss ………………………………………………… who submits 
this application is personally known to me and he/ she has affixed the receipt and that he/ she placed his/ her signature in 
my presence on ………………………..
  –––––––––––––––,
  (Signature of the officer attesting the signature).
date :––––––––––.
 Full name of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
 designation :––––––––––.
 address :––––––––––.
 (To be confirmed by the official stamp) 
12.0  Report of the Head of the department, if the applicant is in the Public service :
i hereby certify that (name in full) …………………………………………… who submits this application is 
personally known to me and that he/ she placed his/ her signature in my presence on …………………………..  i certify 
that the particulars furnished in paragraph 07 above on the present service of the officer are correct, and his/ her work and 
conduct are ………………………………….He/ she can be/ cannot be released from the post held at present. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the Head of the department.
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
 designation :––––––––––.
 address :––––––––––.
 (To be confirmed by the official stamp)
08–1150
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  goVERNmENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNka.