

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
INSTITUTE OF PROJECT MANAGERS
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 73 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 24, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]
L.D.—O. INC. 1/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  INSTITUTE  OF  PROJECT  MANAGERS
SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an institute called and known as the “Institute
of Project Managers  Sri Lanka” has heretofore been
established in Colombo, for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said institute according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said institute has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of Project
Managers Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act such and so many persons as now are or may hereafter
be enrolled as corporate and non corporate members of the
Institute of  Project Managers Sri Lanka, (hereinafter referred
to as the “Institute”), or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession, under the name and style
of the “Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued with full power and authority to have and to use
a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Institute of
Project Managers
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 3 -->

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote and advance the science and practice of
project management in Sri Lanka ;
(b) to foster professionalism in the management of
projects ;
(c) to help in obtaining and exchanging academic and
industrial research and technical knowledge in the
field of project management by introducing speedy
communication systems and  discussions thereon,
by establishing and maintaining technical and
management libraries, publications on matters of
professional interest and any such other means ;
(d) to promote the study of project management,
to encourage original research and provide a
recognized forum for the free exchange of ideas,
applications and solutions with a view of facilitating
the scientific and economic development of
Sri Lanka ;
(e) to conduct examinations for the granting of
membership of the Corporation to test the competency
of persons engaged in project management and to
grant certificates of competence ;
(f) to determine the eligibility of candidates for
admission to various grades of membership;
(g) to maintain ethics, standards and accreditation in
the field of project management ;
(h) to regulate the professional activities and to assist
in maintaining high standards in the field of project
management ;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
(i) to collaborate with universities and other
educational institutes to encourage academic and
industrial research and for relevant areas of
education and career development at all levels in
project management ;
(j) to provide and maintain the necessary buildings
and material for the well being of its members and
the general public ;
(k) to encourage and assist in the settlement of disputes
by adjudicators, arbitrators and to maintain panels
of adjudicators and arbitrators ; and
(l) to establish relationships with other public and
private organizations, with regard to project
management, and to co-operate in matters of
common interest ;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and thing
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to open, operate or close bank
accounts, to borrow and raise money with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the purpose of carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the rules of Corporation, to be made under section 6 of
this Act,  be administered  by a Council consisting of
the  President, the immediate Past President, the Vice
President, the General Secretary, the Treasurer, the Assitant
Secretary, the Editor, the Assistant Treasurer and such other
office-bearers as may be provided for by the rules and elected
in accordance therewith.
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
4
(2) The members of the committee of the Institute
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the members
of the first Council of the Corpration.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any meeting by the votes of not less than two thirds of
the members present and voting, to make rules not
inconsistent with  the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any one of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal and expulsion of  members  and the
particulars to be incsribed in the register of members;
(b) the election of the members of the Council and its
powers , duties and functions and the term of office
of the members of the Council ;
(c) the powers, duties and functions of various officers,
agents and servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at meetings of the
Council ; the summoning and holding of  meetings
of the Council, the times, places, notices and agenda
of  such meetings ; the quorum therefore and the
conduct of business thereat ;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(f) generally, the management of the affairs of the
Corporation.
(2) Such rules when made may, at a like meeting, and in
like manner, be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
7. The Council of the Corporation shall cause to be
maintained a register in which every person who, on the date
of commencement of this Act, is a member of the Corporation,
and every person thereafter duly admitted as a member of the
Corporation shall have inscribed in such register his name,
address and such other particulars as may be prescribed under
the rules of the Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants,
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation, in one or more banks as the
Council shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporaton in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. (1) The Council of the Corporation shall cause proper
books of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure
of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor, at least once in every year.
(3) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who, being a member of the institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Register of
members.
Accounts and
audit..
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
6
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation
hereby constituted, and all debts due to, and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the Institute on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation hereby constituted, for the purposes
of this Act.
11. The moneys and property of the Corporation
howsoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of its objects as setforth herein and no protion
thereof shall be paid, or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the
members of the Corporation.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
charge —
(a) such fees, as the Corporation may deem reasonable,
for admission to any course or examination
conducted by the Corporation ;
(b) fees for the admission of persons to any class of
membership of the Corporation ; and
(c) such subscription and fees as the  Corporation may
deem appropriate to charge.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules of the Corporation, made under section 6 with full power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
Application of
moneys and
property.
Corporation may
hold property,
movable and
immovable.
Power to charge
fees and
subscription.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Institute.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
14. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Council, one of whom shall be the President
of the Corporation who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
15. The Corporation shall have the power to appoint
disciplinary committees and to make such other steps as may
be deemed appropriate from time to time, for the control of
professional standards and for the management of discipline
among persons practising or acting as project managers in
Sri Lanka.
16. If upon dissolution of the Corporation, there remains
after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but such property
shall be given or transferred to such institution or institutions
having objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and
which is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its or their
members. The members of the Corporation shall determine
such institution or institutions at the time of dissolution of
the Corporation or prior to such dissolution.
17. Nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect the rights
of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Disciplinary
Committees.
Dissolution.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 9 -->

Institute of Project Managers Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 73 of 2009
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.