

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2199
2199
wxl 1"681 - 2010 fkdjeïn¾ ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'11'19
No. 1,681 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2202
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 2207
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th November, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th
November, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,680 of 12.11.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2200
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the Purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2201
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2202
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Males and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st December, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
01st November, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Badulla Haputale Post of Registrar of Marria ges (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/ Additional
in Haputale Division and Birth and Deaths of Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Haputalegama Badulla.
11–507
–––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Additional Medical (Births and Deaths)
GAMPAHA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Males and Female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2203
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st December, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
01st November, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Gampaha Negombo Post of Additional Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/ Additional
Deaths of Negombo Town (Out of the Hospital) Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Division Gampaha.
11–509
–––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Additional Muslim Marriages
GAMPAHA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Additional Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule he reto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st December, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
01st November, 2010.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2204
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Gampaha Biyagama Post of Additional Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/ Additional
in Malwana Area of Siyane Koralaya West Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Division Gampaha.
11–510
–––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Additional Marriages
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Additional Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Males and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st December, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
01st November, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Additional Marriage Registrar (General) District Secretary/ Additional
of Kirulapona Area in Colombo Division Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Colombo 12
11–511

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2205
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRATION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS
LECTURERS/INSTRUCTORS-2011 ACADEMIC YEAR
APPLICATIONS are invited for the registration of External Resource
Persons as Lecturers/Instructors in the Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges under this Department by the Directors/
Principals of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges, indicated
in the Schedule given at the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External
Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Director/
Principal of the Colleges of Technology/Technical College where
you wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelope
(9" x 4"). The top left - hand corner of the envelope should be
marked "External Resource Persons". These particulars may also
be obtained from the Principals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 03rd
December, 2010.
04. General Information for Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding
their qualifications and experience in the Educational,
Professional and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees.– Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary
from Rs. 200 to Rs. 400 per hour in accordance with
their experience, qualifications and level of the course
they are selected to serve.
(iii) Forwarding of Applications.– Applications from officers
in the Public Service should be forwarded through the
Heads of their Departments/Institutes with an
endorsement by the respective Heads to the effect that
their selection of the applicant as an External Resource
Persons will not affect their normal duties.
(iv) Selections.– Selections for these registrations will be may
subsequent to interviews conducted by the Director/
Principals of the respective Colleges. Preference will be
given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please
note that the registration can be terminated according to
requirements of the College by the Director/Principal,
without giving any reasons and at any time during the
Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct
internal examinations in their respective subjects without
additional remuneration.
05. These registration are valid only for the Academic Year 2011
and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the
requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject,
separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Director/Principal of the appropriate
Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges under registered Post to
reach him before the closing date specified by him.
C
HITHRAL AMBAWATHTHE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
LIST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial T echnical Colleges/Colleges of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of T echnology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of Technology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of T echnology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07 Kurunegala College of Technology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2206
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College Station Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College Wewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New T own, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
11–573
Serial T echnical Colleges/Colleges of Address District
No. Technology
DEPARTMENT  OF  AYURVEDA
Recruitment to the Posts of Technical Officer (Motor
Vehicles)/Technical Officer (Building Constructions)
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified Sri Lankan citizens for
the recruitment to the Technical Officer Posts in the Department of
Ayurveda. The applications prepared as per the below specimen
should be sent under registered post to reach Commissioner of
Ayurveda, Department of Ayurveda, Navinna, Maharagama on or
before 30.11.2010. The words "Recruitment to the Posts of Technical
Officer (Motor Vehicles)/Technical Officer (Building Constructions)"
should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application.
02. All the applicants should make sure that they have fulfilled
the following qualifications :
(a) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen ;
(b) Should have sound moral character and a physical
background ;
(c) Should be more than 18 years and less than 30 years of age
as at the closing date of applications ;
(d) Educational qualifications.– Should have three (03) passes
at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting with 02
subjects relevant to the field and should have passed the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination with credits for Language or
Literature, Mathematics, Science and for one other subject
in two sittings ;
(e) Professional qualifications. – In addition to the above
qualifications, should have obtained 02 year Diploma or
equal other technical qualification relevant to the field
obtained from a University or any other Institute belonging
to or approved by the University Grants Commission or
from a Government recognized Institute or Government
affiliated Statutory Institute or any other institute
recognized by the Technical Services Board of Sri Lanka ;
(f) Experience.– The applicants with experience in the field
will get marks at the interview.
03. Terms of Employment :
(i) The consolidated salary pertaining to this post is given
below. P/A Circular No. 06/2006(iv) MN 3-2006A
Rs. 15,005– 4 x 180 - 06 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 -
Rs. 27,885.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) The selected candidates are recruited to the Posts of
Technical Officer subject to the general conditions
governing the appointments to the public service and to
the recruitment procedure in respect of the Technical
Officer Posts in the Department of Ayurveda presently
exists and amendments to be made in the future.
04. Mode of Selection.– The applications received after the closing
date and the not fulfilled the minimum qualifications will be rejected
and the appointments will be made on the results of an Aptitude
Test and a Structured Interview if more than one application is
received.
05. Candidature of any applicant is liable to be cancelled before
or during the interview if he/she has not fulfilled the qualifications. If
the false information is willfully provided or if any important fact is
willfully concealed he/she will be liable to a dismissal from the service.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2207
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post
of Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey
Department - 2010
THE Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Post of
Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey Department will be
held only in Colombo in February, 2011 by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The date of examination will be notified through
newspapers in due course. The Cabinet of Ministers reserves the
right to postpone or cancel this examination.
Applications are invited for the above posts from both male and
female candidates who comply with the following qualifications.
02. Eligibility :-
(i) Every candidate must furnish proof that he/she -
(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) is of excellent moral character ;
(c) is not less than 22 years and not more than 33 years of
age on the closing date of application.
(ii) Educational Qualifications.– All candidates should have
the following educational qualifications :–
Should have a B Sc. Degree with Mathematics or Physics
as a subject or a B Sc. Degree in Computer Science (Should
have passed the G . C. E. Advanced Level with Maths/
Combined Maths/Advanced Maths/Pure Maths/Applied
Maths as a subject) or a Degree in Civil Engineering,
obtained from a recognized university or an institution
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Note.– Any person who is waiting for degree results could
not apply for this examination. However, a person
who has passed a degree of recognized University and
awaiting for the certificate can be permitted to sit for
the examination provided he/she submits an official
letter attached with application form from the Registrar
of relevant University stating to that effect.
03. Conditions of Services :–
Salary :
(i) The consolidated monthly salary assigned to this post is
as follows :
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(IV) – MN – 5A
Rs. 16,720 - 10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 - Rs. 30,685.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Confirmation in Service :
Apprentice Surveyors will be appointed to Class II/II of
Sri Lanka Surveyors' Service and conferred with
The applicants who are already in the government service should
forward their applications through their respective Heads of
Department. The Department of Ayurveda is not responsible for the
applications lost in the post.
P. S. K. R. W
EERAKOON,
Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda.
Department of Ayurveda,
Navinna, Maharagama,
29th October, 2010.
DEPARTMENT OF AYURVEDA
A
PPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF TECHNICAL OFFICER
(MOTOR VEHICLES)/TECHNICAL OFFICER (BUILDING CONSTRUCTIONS)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :–––––––––.
03. Sex :–––––––––.
04. Marital Status :–––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
07. Post applying :–––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
8.1 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
Index No. :–––––––––. Year :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
8.2 G . C. E. (Advanced Level) :
Index No. :–––––––––. Year :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
09. Qualifications :
9.1 Professional qualifications :–––––––––.
9.2 Experience :–––––––––.
10. Other qualifications :–––––––––.
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and I am aware that I will be subjected to any punishment
given by the Commissioner of Ayurveda if any facts given by me are
revealed to be false.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
11–444

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2208
permanent status of service after a net total of 6 years
satisfactory service including the completion of Surveying
Degree and training with qualification in paragraph. 02(ii)
of this Gazette Notification.
(iv) The candidates selected for appointments should present
themselves to a medical examination by a Government
Medical Officer in Government Hospital with a view to
it being ascertained whether they are physically fit to
serve in any part of the Island.
(v) Attention of the applicants is drawn to the general
conditions applicable to appointments to the Posts in
the Pubilc Service published in Part I : Section (IIA) of
this Gazette.
04. Procedure of Examination.– The examination consists of the
following 3 question papers :–
01. Comprehension - 50 marks 2 hour paper.
02. Intelligence - 150 marks 01 hour 15 minute paper.
03. General Knowledge - 150 marks 03 hour paper.
Total - 350 marks
Comprehension paper. – This paper will consist of questions
given in the form of short passages. Candidates are expected to
summarize some of the passages into one sentence. Knowledge of
grammar pertaining to some underlined words will be tested. There
would be multiple questions on some passages and candidates are
expected to select the best suited answer.
Some passages will carry comprehension questions based on
multiple choice methods. Questions are framed so as to test the
candidate's power of understanding. In addition there will be a long
passage for précis writing. This question paper is of two hour duration.
Intelligence.– This paper is framed with the objective of testing
the candidate's power of rational thinking, power of analysis and
decision making. This will be a multiple choice question paper. The
question paper is of one hour and 15 minute duration.
General Knowledge.– There will be questions to test candidate's
knowledge about the current Political, Social, Cultural, Economic
and Environmental matters of both national and international
importance. This is a choice of questions. The question paper is of 3
hour duration.
Note :-
(i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
mediums. Candidates should sit for this examination only
in the medium (be Sinhala or Tamil or English) in which
they appeared for the qualifying examination according
to the 02(ii) of this notification. However, a candidate
who has passed the qualifying examination in Tamil or
English or a candidate who had his/her education in Tamil
or English medium can sit for the examination in Sinhala
Medium if he/she prefers. The medium of language
applied for the examination cannot be changed later.
(ii) Marks will be deducted for bad hand writing and spelling
mistakes. Also those candidates having bad hand writing
may be deemed to be ineligible for sitting the examination.
(iii) Admission cards will be sent to the applicants by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The issue of an
admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean
that he or she has the requisite qualifications to sit for
the examination.
05. Method of Selection .– Under the minute of the Sri Lanka
Surveyors' Service, amendment by Extraordinary Gazette notification
No. 1,675/20 dated 12.10.2010, the candidates will be called for an
interview on the merit order of the total marks 40% or above for each
paper at the open competitive examination and also depending on
the number of existing vacancies. No marks will be allotted in the
interview and only the marks secured at the examination will be
taken into consideration.
06. Every candidate must have complied with all the necessary
qualifications required for this post before the closing date of
application for the examination.
07. Procedure of Application :
(i) Specimen  Application Form .– Specimen Application
Form provided at the end of this notification should be
followed in applying for this post and applicants should
prepare their applications in the medium in which they
appear for the examination. Also, applications should be
filled by the applicants in their own hand-writing. The
name of the examination mentioned at the top should be
indicated in English in the Sinhala medium applications
in addition to Sinhala while in the Tamil medium
applications, the name of the examination should be
indicated in English in addition to Tamil. Every section
of the application should be perfected strictly in
accordance with the instructions given therein. Applicants
should indicate "not applicable" in any section which is
not applicable to them. Applicants should strictly keep
in mind that any application with blank columns is liable
to be rejected. All applications which do not conform to
the specimen application form and incomplete
applications will be rejected without notice. It will be
useful for the candidates to retain a photo-copy of the
application submitted. Further the applicant should make
sure that the application to be filled by him/her is in
accordance with the specimen application form mentioned
in this notification. If not, the application is liable to be
rejected. (Applications should be prepared according to
the annexed form on a A4 size paper and the cages No.
01 to 05 should appear on the front page and No. 06 to
09 appear on the second page.)
(ii) Completed applications should be sent by registered
post to reach "The Commissioner General of
Examinations, Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2209
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla" on or before 10th December,
2010. Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected. The name of the Examination should be written
on the left hand corner of the cover containing the
application.
(iii) The examination fee of Rs. 750 should be paid to any
District Survey Office or Surveyor General's Office in
Credit of General Deposit Account No. 15/143 of Survey
Department and the cash receipt firmly affixed to the
relevant place of the application. It is desirable to retain
a copy of the cash receipt.
(iv) Candidates presently employed under the Government
Departments/Boards/Corporations etc. should forward
their applications through the respective Heads of
Departments. As such applicants should hand over their
applications to their Heads of Departments well in time
to be transmitted to the Commissioner General of
Examinations so as to reach him on or before 10th
December, 2010. Applications should not be sent to the
personal name of Surveyor General or any other
departmental officer. Applications sent through the Heads
of Departments will not also be received after the closing
date. The candidates applying from government service
must get the signature and official frank of the Head of
Department/Institution placed in the application for
attestation, without which the application will be rejected.
(v) Attestation.– Candidate's identity should be certified by
in the case of a candidate from the government service,
the Head of the respective Department or any other
authorized officer, or in the case of other candidates, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-
Law or Notary Public, Head of Government School or
School under the control of a Director, a Commissioned
Officer of Army, Navy or Air Force, a permanent
Government Staff Officer in receipt of an consolidated
monthly salary of Rs. 22,935 or above, the Incumbent of
Buddhist Vihara or a Nayaka Buddhist Monk, the
Incumbent of a place of worship of any other religion or
a religious dignitary of standing of any other religion.
08. Admission to the Examination.– The Commissioner General
of Examinations will issue admission cards to each applicant whose
applications have been received. Applicants appearing for the
examination must get the admission cards attested in advance and
produce them to the supervisor of the examination center. A candidate
without such a admission card will not be permitted to sit for the
examination.
Every candidate should sit for the examination only at the
Examination Hall stipulated to him/her. No any candidate who enters
any other examination hall other than the one assigned to him/her
will be permitted to sit for the examination. A candidate appearing
the examination should handover his/her admission card to the
supervisor on the commencing day of examination itself. The general
conditions applicable to the candidates have been published in Part
I : Section (IIA) of this Gazette. Candidates are bound to act in
conformity with such conditions. A notification will be published in
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are isued to the candidates.
If the admission card is not recieved even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e.  certified photocopies of the
application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of
registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of
request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should
be sent.
The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the
examination. All candidates are bound to abide by the rules enforced
by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
conducting of examination. A candidate who violates any of such
rules is liable to punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
09. Identification of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any
one of the above mentioned documents is liable to be cancelled at the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Documents pertaining to the Qualifications :
(i) No any other document except the cash receipt should
be sent along with the application. But all the necessary
particulars as stipulated should be included in the
application. All the applications should be completed in
all respects but any incomplete application will be
rejected.
(ii) Candidates who are qualified to be called for an interview
should prove their eligibility by producing documentary
evidence at the interview.
(iii) The originals of the following documents should be
produced :–
(a) A certificate of good character obtained from a
responsible person.
Note.– This should be from a Justice of Peace, Attorney-
at-law, Divisional Secretary of the area in which the
applicant resides or a Permanent Government
Officer in receipt of an consolidated monthly salary
of Rs. 22,935 or above, or any Notable from whom
information can directly be obtained. Also the Name
of Attestor, Designation and Address should be
clearly mentioned in it.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2210
Applicants holding permanent posts in the government service
need not furnish the certificate of good character.
(a) A certified copy of register of Birth or (in the case of
applicants whose births have not been registered) a
presumed certificate of age issued by the Registrar General.
Note :
(i) Special Certificates of birth issued for the purpose of
using in schools or educational activities or certified
extracts from register of birth will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal certificates will not be accepted
instead of a birth certificate. If there is any discrepancy
between name/names on the birth certificate and name/
names in normal usage in which the applicant appears
for the examination, immediate action should be taken
to get the name/names on the applicant's birth certificate
rectified appropriately in terms of the conditions
stipulated in No. 27 or 28 (Chapter 110) of Births and
Deaths Registration Act.
(iii) A certificate of Sri Lankan citizenship by registration or
a letter of proof accepted by the government that the
applicant has been a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent. (as
appropriate).
(iv) Originals of educational qualifications or if the
certificates have not been issued, any other official
document to that effect namely.
(v) An official document issued by the registrar of a relevant
university to the effect that the applicant has passed
his/her final degree examination and the result sheet
issued by the Department of Examinations stating that
the applicant has passed the G . C. E. (O/L). National
Certificate of General Education Examination with a
credit pass in English Language.
(vi) Applicants are advised to have their necessary
documents ready when applying for this post. If a
candidate fails to submit necessary documents or delays
in submitting such documents whenever requested, he/
she will be made ineligible for appointment to this post.
11. Furnishing false information.– In terms of the conditions of
this examination, if a candidate is found to be unqualified to sit for
this examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled prior to
this examination, during the course of examination or subsequent to
the examination or at anytime thereafter. During the service of any
candidate, if he/she is found to have suppressed any important
information, or furnished any false information knowingly, or
confirmed to have not complied with necessary requirements to
have appeared for this examination, that alone will be sufficient
ground for his/her immediate dismissal from service.
The candidature of any applicant who has not duly fulfilled the
necessary requirements of this notification willbe cancelled.
12. Any matter not covered by these conditions will be determined
at the discretion of the Cabinet of Ministers.
By order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
T. A
SHOKA PEIRIS,
Secretary,
Ministry of Land and Land Development.
Ministry of Land and Land Development,
No. 80/5, "Govijana Mandiraya",
Rajamalwatta Avenue,
Battaramulla,
29th October, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
S
RI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO
THE POST OF APPRENTICE SURVEYORS IN THE SRI LANKA SURVEY
DEPARTMENT – 2010(2011)
(For office use only)
Medium of Language in which you are appearing for the exam :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals eg. : SILV A, A. B.)
1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.0 Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Office Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals, if applicable)
2.4 Postal Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Nationality :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
Other - 5
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
3.2 Sex :
Female - 1,  Male - 0
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2211
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date
3.4 Age on 10.12.2010 :
Years Months Days
3.5 National Identity Card No. :
3.6 Date issued :––––––––––.
4.0 (i) Date of Graduation :––––––––––.
(ii) University/Institution :––––––––––.
(iii) Number of Registration, Date :––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––––.
(v) Degree :––––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :––––––––––.
(vii) The class obtained :––––––––––.
(viii) Upper/Lower :––––––––––.
(ix) Index No. :––––––––––.
(x) Medium of Language in which you appeared for the exam
:––––––––––.
05. Degree obtained :
Degree in B. Sc. Physical Science
(with Mathematics as a subject) - 1
B. Sc. Degree in Computer Science - 2
Degree in Civil Engineering - 3
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
5.1 G . C. E. (A/L) - year passed exam :––––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––––.
Subjects got through :––––––––––.
06. Affix the cash receipt firmly. Please keep a photocopy of the
receipt.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
07. Certificate of the candidate :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
that the cash receipt No. .................. dated ............... for the
payment of admission fee to the ................. District Survey
Office/Surveyor General's Office has been affixed hereto. Further
I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this examination
and if I am found to be ineligible according to the conditions of
this examination, I agree to any decision taken to cancel my
candidature prior to the examination, while holding the
examination or subsequent to it.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED
AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL
COLLEGES - 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses
conducted in Colleges of  Technology/Technical Colleges appearing
in this Gazette Notification. Students for admission will be selected
from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit,
and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own
applications on a 13" x 8 " sheet of paper in accordance with the
“Specimen Application Form” given in this notification. As specified
in item 12 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10  stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s
usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Director/Principal of the
respective College of Technology/Technical College to which
admission is sought to reach him on or before 10.12.2010.
Applicants are advised not to submit applications to this
department or to any officer’s official or personal addresses.
08. Attestation of candidate's signature (should be as per the para
No. 07) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................ (full
name) who is submitting this application is personally known
to me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on
.....................
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of Attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of the Department (only if applicable) :
I declare that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... is an
officer serving in this Department/Corporation/Board, that he/
she has paid the relevant examination fees and that the cash
receipt has been affixed to the application. I also agree to release
him/her from the post he/she hold in the event of being selected.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
11–401
––––––––––––––

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2212
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked
with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
 e.g.:- National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship
Course - ETC05
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully
with the Name and Code Number of the Course, College in which the
course to be followed and the Medium of Instruction of the Course
correctly. Requests made subsequently to change the College, Course
or Medium of instruction will not be considered under any
circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged from all those following Part Time and
Evening Courses in the following manner :
(i) Part-time/Evening Certificate Courses (more than one
Year) Rs. 2,000 per year ;
(ii) Part-time/Evening one year and Short Term Courses less
than one year Rs. 1,500 per course.
07. Attention of all Candidates is invited to the Schedule of
Courses appended at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges
where the courses are conducted and medium of instruction. The
addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges where the
courses are available are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these
colleges should –
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission
at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude
test and/or an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted
along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce the
necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the
interview will be deemed disqualified.
11. Subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000  a month a stipend of
Rs. 50 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.
About 1,000 Full Time Day Course students from low income
families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500  per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity
of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that have
been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely
dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or Several Courses in this gazette
notification for the academic year 2011, in Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges are subject to discretion of the Director General
of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using
separate application forms.
Dr. C
HITHRAL AMBAW A TTE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk
List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges
Serial Technical College/College of Technology Address District
No.
01. Sri Lanka  College of Technology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02. Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03. Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04. Jaffna College of T echnology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05. Badulla College of Technology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06. Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07. Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala.
08. Ampara Hardy College of  Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09. Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10. Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11. Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12. Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13. Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14. Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara, Kalutara
15. Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16. Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2213
17. Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18. Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara - Eliya, Nuwara-Eliya
19. Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama, Colombo
20. Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hamban tota
21. Hasalaka Technical College Y odha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22. Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23. Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24. Wariyapola T echnical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25. Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26. Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela, Badulla
27. Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28. Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29. Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30. Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31. Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32. Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33. Medagama Technical College Medagama, (via Bibile) Monaragala
34. Polonnaruwa  Technical College V idyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35. Embilipitiya T echnical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36. Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37. Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38. Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICA TION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES ACADEMIC YEAR – 2011
For Official use only
(Applications must be directed to the Director/Principal of the relevant College of Technology/Technical
College. Addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges are given in the List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges)
(Each Course applied for should be in a separate application)
01. Name of the College of Technology/Technical College :———.
02. Name of the Course applied :———.   (Full Time Day/ Evening/Part Time)
Medium :———. Code No. :———.
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials :———.
04. Names indicated by Initials :———.
05. Permanent Address :———.
06. National Identity Card No. :———.
07. District :———. Electorate :———.
Gramaniladari Division :———.
08. Date of Birth :  Year :———,  Month :———, Date :———.
Age as at 01.01.2011
Years :———,  Months :———, Days :———.
09. Male/Female :———.
10. Educational Qualifications :
(A) G . C. E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts)
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
Serial Technical College/College of Technology Address District
No.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2214
(B) G . C. E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :–
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G . C. E. (A/L) sittings :———.
(D) Highest grade/year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
 Grade :———,       Year :———.
11. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement
11.1 Applicant’s Name :———.
11.2 Post held at present and the Date of Appointment to the Post :———.
If self employed, the type of employment
11.3 Work place and its address :———.
11.4 Employee Provided Fund No. :———.
Employee Trust Fund No. :———.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office,
11.5 Name of the Employer :———.
11.6 Designation :———.
11.7 Signature  :———. Official Seal :
11.8  Date :———.
12. Applicant’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge , and I have obtained the qualifications required
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleg es and to
accept the decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :———.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10/=  should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.
SCHEDULE OF COURSES CONDUCTED IN COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES  –  2011
Engineering Technician Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admi ssion Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium
01. ETB03 National Diploma in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects including
Sinhala Medium
Agriculture Ag riculture, with four credit passes in one sitting. Dambulla,
The four credit passes should be for the following Kuliyapitiya
subjects:
Full Time Day First Language, Mathematics, Science, and Social
Two Years Studies or any of the following subjects.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2215
Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry,
Food Science and Food Technology, Fresh
Water (inland) Bio Resource Technology
Oceanic (Marine) Bio Resource Technology ;
or
Should possess at least Three Ordinary passes
 in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
The subjects should be any three of the following :
Biology, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry, Physics,
Agriculture.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2011.
02. ETC01 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four credit passes Kandy,
(Civil Engineering) including  Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Language and English Language. At least five (5)
Full Time Day subjects should be passed in one sitting  ;
Two Years or
Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft  Practice course with credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2011.
03. ETC02 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four credit Kandy,
(Electrical & Electronic passes  including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Engineering) Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2011.
04. ETC03 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in not
English Medium
Industrial Technicians more than two sittings with four credit passes Kandy,
(Mechanical including Science, Mathematics, Medium Language and Ratmalana
Engineering) English Language. At least five (5) subjects should be
passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2216
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2011.
05. ETC05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Draughtsmanship The six (6) subjects should be - Anamaduwa,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day ( b) Mathematics and Science Badulla,
One Year ( c) Three other Subjects Balapitiya,
Bandarawela,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Beliatta,
on 01.01.2011. Dambulla, Galle,
Gampaha,
Hasalaka,
Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matale, Matara,
Moneragala,
NuwaraEliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Ambilipitiya,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Maradana,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu
06. ETB02 National Diploma in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
English Medium
Jewellery Design and in not more than two sittings. Maradana
Manufacture (Preference will be given to candidates who have
passed in Art, Metal Work, Wood Work, Maths and
Full Time Day English)  ; and
Two Years Passes in Two (02) subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L)
examination.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2011.
07. ETC07 National Certificate in 1. Passes in four (4) subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Sinhala Medium
Jewellery Manufacture Examination in one sitting ; or Beliatta,
should have passed year 09 and experience in the Maradana
Full Time Day relevant field.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2217
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2011.
08 ECC 40 Certificate in Landscaping 1. Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ; Sinhala Medium
for Junior Supervisors or Kandy, Kegalle,
Have passed the National Certificate in Ratmalana,
Full Time Day Landscaping  Technology Craft Level III Course Kurunegala,
One Year conducted in any of the V ocational Training Homagama,
Centres attached to VTA. Gampaha, Galle,
2. Age should be between 18 and 35 years as Matara, Beliatta,
on 01.01.2011. Bandarawela,
Preference will be given to those below 25 years. Dambulla, Matale
09 ETC 04 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects English Medium
Technology (Quantity with four (04) credit passes including Science, Galle, Batticaloa,
Surveying) Mat hematics and Medium Language in one sitting. Jaffna
Should have at least an Ordinary Pass for English Kandy, Kegalle,
Full Time Day Language. Preference will be given to the Ratmalana,
One Year candidates those who have followed Pure Maths/ Ratnapura,
Applied Maths or Combined Maths and/or Anuradhapura,
a Hard Technology subjects in G . C. E.  (A/L) Badulla, Gampaha,
Examination. Kurunegala,
Matara,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Warakapola,
on 01.01.2011. Beliatta,
Balapitiya,
Sammanthurai
P
ART TIME COURSES
10 ETC  01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in Sinhala Medium
Technology (Civil not more tha n two sittings. Ampara,
Engineering) Six (6) subjects should be :- Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Badulla,
Part Time Three years ( b) Mathematics and Science Balapitiya,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications. Beliatta,
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Dambulla,
employed in the on 01.01.2011 Embilipitiya,
relevant field.) Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka,
Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matara,
Monaragala,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Matale,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Trincomalee,
Anamaduwa,
Bandarawela
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2218
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
11 ETC 02.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
Sinhala Medium
Technology (Electrical not more t han two sittings. Ampara,
and Electronic Engineering) Six  (6) subjects should be :- Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Badulla,
Part time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science Balapitiya,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualification Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those or Homagama,
employed in the Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Kegalle,
Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Electrician Kurunegala,
course or Radio, TV and Electronics course Maradana,
conducted at Technical Colleges under the Matara,
Department of Technical Education and Training Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
2. Age should not be less than  17 years as Warakapola,
on 01.01.2011 Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
12 ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
Sinhala Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more than two sittings. Badulla,
Engineering) Six (06) subjects should be :- Galle, Gampaha,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Homagama,
Part Time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science Kegalle,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications Kurunegala,
(Restricted to those or Maradana,
employed in the Matara,
relevant field.) Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Ratmalana,
Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle Ratnapura,
Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist Warakapola
course conducted at Technical Colleges under the
Department of Technical Education and Training
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
Tamil Medium
on 01.01.2011 Batticaloa,
Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Akkaraipattu
13 ETC 04.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
Sinhala Medium
Technology (Quantity not more than  two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Surveying) Six (06) subjects should be :- Badulla,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Balapitiya
Part Time Three Years (b) Mathematics and Science Beliatta,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those Homagama,
employed in the 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) on 01.01.2011 Kegalle,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admi ssion Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2219
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matara,
Monaragala,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya
English medium
Maradana
Engineering Craft Studies Courses
F
ULL TIME COURSES
01 ECC  08 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Anuradhapura,
Practice-Electronic more than two sittings Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta,
Two Years 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given preference. Embilipitiya,
Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Kurunegala,
(Course with Maradana,
National Nuwara-Eliya,
V ocational Polonnaruwa,
Qualification- Rathmalana,
NVQ) Rathnapura,
Warakapola,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Trincomalee,
V avuniya
02 ECC 10 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Anuradhapura,
Practice-Fitter more than two sittings Beliatta, Galle,
Machinist Hasalaka, Kandy,
Kegalle,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between be 17 and 25 years as on Kuliyapitiya,
Two Years 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given preference. Kurunegala,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2220
Kalutara, Matara,
(Course with Polonnaruwa,
National V ocational Warakapola,
Qualification- Nuwara-Eliya,
NVQ) Badulla
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Sammanthurai
03 ECC 13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Ampara,
Practice-Industrial more than two sittings ; Anuradhapura,
Electrician or Embilipitiya,
have passed the House Wiring Course Conducted in Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Full Time Day any V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Homagama,
Two Years Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Nuwara-Eliya,
01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given preference. Polonnaurwa
(Course with Ratmalana,
National Trincomalee,
V ocational Pathadumbara,
Qualification- W eerawila, Matale
NVQ)
Tamil Me dium
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
04 ECC 18 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Ampara,
Practice-Motor more than two sittings Anuradhapura,
Vehicle Mechanic Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Beliatta,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given preference. Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Hasalaka,
Homagama
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
(Course with National Kuliyapitiya,
V ocational Kurunegala
Qualification - NVQ) Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Matale,
Trincomalee
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2221
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
05 ECC 02 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara
Practice- Gas and Arc Have passed the Welder Course conducted in any Anamaduwa,
Welder of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Anuradhapura,
Badulla, Balapitiya
Full Time Day Bandarawela,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla
01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given Dehiattakandiya,
preference Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
(Course with National Homagama,
V ocational Kalutara,
Qualification - NVQ) Kandy,  Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Pathadumbara,
Nuwara-Eliya
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
V avuniya
06 ECC 09 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara,
Practice- Plumber Have passed the Plumbing Course conducted in any Anuradhapura,
of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Embilipitiya,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17and 25 years as on Gampaha,
01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given Hasalaka,
(Course with National preference Homagama,
V ocational Maradana,
Qualification - NVQ) Nuwara-Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Anamaduwa,
Ratnapura
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
V avuniya,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2222
07 ECC05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics, Science and Medium Anuradhapura,
Practice-Refrigeration Language in not more than two sittings. Bandarawela,
and Air Conditioning Beliatta,
Mechanic 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Embilipitiya, Galle,
on 01.01.2011 Gampaha,
Those under 22years are given preference. Homagama,
Full Time Day Kalutara, Kandy,
One Year Kegalle, Matara,
Polonnaruwa,
(Course with National Ratnapura,
V ocational Maradana, Hasalaka
Qualification - NVQ)
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
08 ECC06 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 :
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice-Wood Machinist have passed the Carpenter Course conducted in any Dehiattakandiya,
of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day Hasalaka,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Homagama,
on 01.01.2011 Kuliyapitiya,
(Course with National Those under 22years are given preference. Polonnaruwa,
V ocational Ratnapura,
Qualification - NVQ) Wariyapola,
Anamaduwa,
Nuwara-Eliya
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai
09 ECC14 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ; Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anamaduwa,
Practice - Construction have passed the Masonry Course conducted in any Anuradhapura,
Craftsman of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years Wariyapola,
One Year as on 01.01.2011. Gampaha,
Those under 22 years are given preference. Ratnapura,
(Course with National Polonnaruwa
V ocational
Qualification - NVQ)
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2223
10 ECS21 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Aluminium Fabrication Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Gampaha,
Full Time Day on 01.01.2011. Homagama,
Six Months Kurunegala, Matale,
Ratmalana,
(Course with National Warakapola,
V ocational Balapitiya,
Qualification - NVQ) Beliatta
Tamil Medium
Jaffna
11 CBT06 Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects in Sinhala Medium
Electrical Trade not more than two sittings Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Ratnapura,
One Year 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given preference. Wariyapola.
(Course with National
V ocational
Qualification - NVQ)
Tamil Medium
Jaffna
12 ECS26 Certificate in Motor 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Cycle and Scooter Dehiattakandiya,
Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Kegalle,
on 01.01.2011. Kurunegala, Matale,
Full Time Day Pathadumbara,
One Year Bandarawela
(Course with National
Tamil Medium
V ocational Jaffna,
Qualification - NVQ) Batticaloa
13 MCC08 Certificate in Footwear 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Making Medagama
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2011.
One Year
(Course with National
V ocational
Qualification - NVQ)
14 CBT08 Certificate in House 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Hold Electrical Anuradhapura,
Appliances Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kandy,
01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given Preference. Trincomalee
Full Time Day
Six Months
Tamil Medium
(Course with National Trincomalee
V ocational
Qualification - NVQ)
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2224
15 CBT13 Certificate in Machining 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Bandarawela,
One Year 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given Preference. Gampaha,
Embilipitiya,
(Course with National Homagama, Kalutara
V ocational Maradana,
Qualification - NVQ) Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Dambulla
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa
16 CBT 19 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Automobile Painting Kurunegala
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given
Six Months  Preference.
(Course with National
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
17 CBT04 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Automobile Tinkering Kurunegala
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given
Six Months Preference.
(Course with National
V ocational
Qualification - NVQ)
18 MCS08 Certificate in Furniture 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Wood Carving Kurunegala
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2011.
Six Months
19 ECS24 Certificate in Foundry 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Practice Kandy
2. Age should be betwen 17 and 25 years as
Full Time Day on 01.01.2011
Six Months
20 ECS36 Certificate in Farm 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Machinery Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on W eerawila
Full Time Day 01.01.2011
Six Months (NVQ)
21 ECC19 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Building Construction passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Balapitiya,
Technology - Craft more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Practice - Multi Skill Kalutara, Beliatta,
Kegalle, Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Moneragala, Kandy,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Dambulla,
One Year 01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given preference. Kurunegala, Galle,
Matara
Tamil Medium
Jaffna
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2225
22 CBT 10 Certificate in Buidling 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Painting 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta
01.01.2011. Those under 22 years are given preference.
Full Time Day - One Year
23 ECC 16 Certificate in Fruits and 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Vegetable Processor passes in Mathematics, Science, Sinhala and English Kandy
in not more than two sittings ; Should have a credit
pass in Science.
Full Time Day - One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2011.
P
ART TIME COURSES
24 ECC33.1 Certificate in Tractor 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Mechanic Dehiattakandiya,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Hasalaka
Part Time One Year 01.01.2011. Tamil Medium
Jaffna
Business Studies Courses
FULL TIME COURSES
01 BSC04 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with Sinhala Medium
Accounting passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in one Anuradhapura,
Technicians sitting. Badulla,
Balapitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2011. Galle, Hasalaka,
Homagama,
Students who succesfully Kalutara, Kandy,
complete this course are Kegalle, Kuliyapitiya,
eligible to follow the Kurunegala,
following courses, conducted Maradana, Matale,
by the Sri Lanka Institute Matara,
of Advanced Technical Nuwara Eliya,
Education :– Polonnaruwa,
* Higher National Diploma Ratnapura,
in Accountancy. Ampara,
* Higher National Diploma W arakapola
 in Management.
* National Diploma in
Tamil Medium
Business Studies. Akkaraipattu,
* National Diploma in Batticaloa,
Business & Finance. Maradana,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya
02 BSC06 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
English Medium
Secretarial Practice (English) passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Badulla,
more than two sittings : Should have a Credit pass Balapitiya,
Full Time Day in English. Batticaloa,
One Year (i) Competency in spoken & written English will be Kalutara, Kandy,
considered. Kuliyapitiya,
Students who (ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test if so Kurunegala,
successfully complete this decided by the authorities. Maradana,
course are eligible to follow (iii) Female candidates are preferred. W arakapola,
the National Diploma in Jaffna
Secretarial Practice Course, 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
conducted  by the Sri Lanka 01.01.2011. Preference will be given to those
Institute of Advanced under 22 years.
Technical  Education
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2226
03 BSC13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Ampara,
and Computing-Sinhala more than two sittings ; Anuradhapura,
Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala. Beliatta, Dambulla
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Galle, Kalutara,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kandy,
01.01.2011. Preference will be given to those under Kuliyapitiya,
22 years. Maradana,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Pathadumbara,
Trincomalee
04 BSC14 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in not
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting more than two sittings with passes in Medium Batticaloa,
and Computing-Tamil Language and Mathematics ; Maradana,
Should have a Credit pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
Full Time Day Trincomalee,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Vavuniya
01.01.2011. Preference will be given to those under
22 years.
05 BSC05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
English Medium
Marketing passes in Mathematics, Medium Language Akkaraipattu,
and English Language in one sitting. Batticaloa, Galle,
Full Time Day Jaffna, Kandy,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kurunegala,
01.01.2011. Maradana,
Matale, Matara,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
P
ART TIME COURSES
06 BSC 04.1 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination is Six (06) Subjects in Sinhala Medium
Accounting no t more than two sittings with a pass for Ampara, Kegalle,
Technicians Mathematics. Moneragala,
Ratnapura
Part Time - Two Years 2. Age should not be less than 18 years as
(Restricted to on 01.01.2011.
employees in an office
of a recognized firm,
Tamil Medium
Government Trincomalee,
Department / Vavuniya
Corporation or Local
Authority or any other
recognized Institute.)
07 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, not more than two sittings with passes in Medium Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Typewriting and Language and Mathematics ; Should have a Credit Sammanthurai,
Computing - Tamil Pass for Ta mil Language. Vavuniya
Part Time - One Year
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2227
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2011.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
General Studies Courses
Full Time Courses
01 ESC01 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
English Medium
English for Commerce, including English in not more than two sittings. Akkaraipattu,
Industry and Further Ampara,
Education 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Anamaduwa,
01.01.2011 Anuradhapura,
Full Time - Day Badulla, Balapitiya,
One Year Bandarawela,
Batticaloa, Beliatta,
Students who successfully Dambulla,
complete this course are Dehiattakandiya,
eligible to follow the Embilipitiya, Galle,
National Diploma in English Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Course, conducted by the Homagama,
Sri Lanka Institute of Kalutara, Kandy,
Advanced Technical Kegalle,
Education Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana
Matale, Matara,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Ratmalana, Jaffna
02 MCC09 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in not
Japanese Medium
Japanese Language more than two sittings Galle
Full Time - Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2011.
One Year Those under 22 years are given Preference.
03 MCC07 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six (6) subjects in not Korean Medium
Korean Language more than two sittings Galle,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2011. Kegalle
Full Time - Day Those under 22 years are given preference.
One Year
04 CBT20 Certificate for Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Application Assistants passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Ampara, Balapitiya,
English Language in not more than two sittings. Beliatta,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2228
Full Time 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Embilipitiya, Galle,
Three Months on 01.01.2011. Gampaha, Kalutara,
(Course with National W eerawila,
V ocational Qualification Maradana, Matara,
- NVQ) Ratnapura,
Medagama,
Hasalaka, Dambulla,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Kuliyapitiya,
Wariyapola
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Jaffna, Vavuniya
05 ECC 03 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
Sinahala Medium
Hardware passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle
and English Language in not more than two sittings.
Full Time Day Three 2. Should have completed basic Computer Science Course
Months 3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
(Course with National 01.01.2011
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
06 ECC 04 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examinatin in Six (06) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Networking passes in Mathematics, Science Medium Language Galle
and English Language in not more than two sittings
Full Time Day Three 2. Should have completed basic Computer Science Course
Months 3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
(Course with National 01.01.2011.
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
Part Time Courses
07 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in
English Medium
English for Commerce, not more than two sittings. Akkaraipattu,
Industry and Further (Special consideration will be given to those Ampara,
Education. employed in a supervisory capacity in an Industrial, Anuradhapura,
Commercial or any similar establishment or those Badulla, Batticaloa,
Part Time - Two Years who were employed in a similar capacity at an earlier Beliatta, Dambulla,
date and those who may qualify for promotion after Galle, Jaffna,
successful completion of the Course) Kandy , Kegalle,
A basic knowledge of English is essential. Moneragala,
Pathadumbara,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Polonnaruwa,
01.01.2011. Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
Vavuniya,
Warakapola,
Embilipitiya
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2229
08 CBT 20.1 Certificate for Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Application Assistants passes in Mathematics, medium Language and Galle
English Language in not moer than two sittings.
Part Time Three Months 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
(Course with National on 01.01.2011
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field)
09 CCC 03.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Hardware passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle
and English Language in not more than two sittings.
Part Time Three Months 2. Should have completed basic Computer Science Course
3. Age should not be less than 17 years as
(Course with National on 01.01.2011.
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ)
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field)
10 ECC 04.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Networking passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle
and English Language in not more than two sittings
Part Time Three Months 2. Should have completed basic Computer
Science Course
(Course with National 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
V ocational Qualification - 01.01.2011
NVQ)
(Restricted to those employed
in the relevant field)
Special Courses
Full Time Courses
01 Receptionist 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with English Medium
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Maradana,
Full Time Day more than two sittings. Should have a Credit pass Gampaha, Galle,
One Year in English. Matara, Beliatta,
(i) Competency in Spoken and Written Kegalle, Kandy,
English will be considered. Matale
(ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test if so
decided by the authorities.
(iii) Female candidates are preferred.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2011.
Preference will be given to those under 22 years.
02 ECC 12 Information 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examiantion in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Telecommunication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Kegalle, Warakapola,
Technology English Language in not more than two sittings Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day Six 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Moneragala, Kandy,
Months 01.01.2011. Pathadumbara,
Matale
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.11.2010
2230
03 ECC 07 Steward 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
passes in Mathematics in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Full Time Day Three 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Anuradhapura,
Months 01.01.2011 Badulla, Balapitiya,
Bandarawela,
Beliatta, Dambulla,
Galle, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matale,
Matara, Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Weerawila,
Ratmalana
Tamil Medium
Trincomalee,
Batticaloa, Jaffna
04 ECC 01 Construction site 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Supervisor passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Ampara,
English Language in not more than two sittings. Anamaduwa,
Full Time Day One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Anuradhapura,
01.01.2011 Badulla, Balapitiya,
Bandarawela,
Beliatta, Dambulla,
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Homagama, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matale,
Matara, Medagama,
Moneragala,
Nuwara -Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Ratmalana,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu,
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
11-574
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the
No. Course is available
and Medium