

<!-- page 1 -->

COMMUNITY BASED CORRECTIONS
  ACT,  No. 46  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 10th December, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 10, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 10.25 Postage : Rs. 5.25
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
Appointment of
Commissioner of
Community
Based Corrections
& c.
Short title and
date of operation.
H - 022545
[Certified on 10 th December, 1999]
L.D.–O.28/99.
A N  ACT   TO  MAKE  PROVISION  FOR  THE  IMPOSITION  OF  COMMUNITY
B ASED   CORRECTION  ORDERS  BY  COURTS  IN LIEU  OF  SENTENCES  OF
IMPRISONMENT ; FOR   THE   APPOINTMENT   OF   A   COMMISSIONER  OF
C OMMUNITY  BASED  CORRECTIONS ; AND  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Community Based
Corrections Act, No. 46 of 1999;
(2) Parts I and III of this Act shall come into operation on
the day on which this Act becomes an Act of Parliament.
(3) Part II of this Act shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the
Gazette. Different dates may be appointed in respect of different
judicial divisions or judicial zones.
PART  I
C
OMMISSIONER  OF  COMMUNITY  BASED  CORRECTIONS
2. (1) There may be appointed, by name or by office, a
Commissioner of Community Based Corrections (hereinafter
referred to as “the Commissioner”) and such number of Deputy
and Assistant Commissioners of Community Based
Corrections and other officers as may be necessary for the
implementation of the provisions of this Act.
(2) The act of appointment of every Deputy and Assistant
Commissioner of Community Based Corrections shall specify
whether he is appointed as such for the whole of Sri Lanka or
any part thereof.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
Deputy
Commissioners
and assistant
Commissioners.
3. Every Deputy Commissioner of Community Based
Corrections and every Assistant Commissioner of Community
Based Corrections may, subject to the general direction and
control of the Commissioner, exercise, perform or discharge,
within the area for which he is appointed, all or any of the
powers, duties or functions conferred or imposed on, or
assigned to the Commissioner by or under this Act.
4. It shall be the function of the Commissioner -
(a) to exercise control over the community corrections
centres established for the purposes of this Act
and over the Deputy Commissioners of Community
Based Corrections. Assistant Commissioners of
Community Based Corrections and other officers of
the Department of Community Based Corrections;
(b) to arrange with appropriate bodies, for the carrying
out of community based correction orders;
(c) to provide advice to courts regarding the suitability
of offenders for community based correction orders;
(d) to ascertain, identify, and advise, courts on the
facilities available for carrying out community based
correction orders;
(e) to provide advice concerning the most appropriate
programme or special condition to be attached to a
community based correction order proposed to be
entered by court;
(f)to monitor, and provide surveillance and supervision
of , offenders in respect of whom community based
correction orders have been entered;
(g) to inform court of the failure to comply with any
condition of a community based correction order
with a view to instituting proceedings under
section 14;
Functions of the
Commissioner.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
Community
based correction
orders.
(h) to apply for variation of a community based
correction order, where necessary.
(i) to provide Community education regarding
correctional principles, objectives and programmes.
PART II
C OMMUNITY  BASED  CORRECTION  ORDERS
5. (1) Notwithstanding any thing in any other Law, where
an offender is convicted of an offence other than.
(a) an offence for which the imposition of a minimum
sentence of imprisonment is mandatory; or
(b) an offence, the penalty perscribed for which
includes a term  of imprisonment exceeding two
years.
the court may, in lieu of imposing a sentence of imprisonment
or a suspended sentence of imprisonment or fine on such
offender but subject to sections 6,7 and 8 enter an order
(hereinafter referred to as a “Community based correction
order”) in the prescribed  form, ,in respect of such offender.
(2) In entering a community based correction order in
respect of an offender, the court shall have regard to the nature
and gravity of the offence committed by the offender and the
other circumstances relating to the commission of such
offence,the pre-sentence report, if any, furnished in respect of
the offender and the facilities available for carrying out such
order.
6. (1) If a court finds a person guilty of an offence, it may,
before passing sentence on such person and for the purpose
of -
(a) determining whether it is suitable to enter a
community based correction order in respect of
the offender;
Pre-sentence
Report.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
(b) ascertaining whether there are facilities for
carrying out such order.
(c) Obtaining advice as to the most appropriate
conditions that should be attached to the
proposed order,
require the Commissioner to furnish  to court, a written or oral
pre-sentance report on such offender on or before a specified
date and at a specified place, and may adjourn proceedings to
enable the report to be prepared:
Provided however that where the court adjourns
proceedings as aforesaid, it shall fix the place, date and time
for the passing of sentance.
(2) If a court adjourns the sentancing of an offender under
the provisions of this section it may release the offender on
bail.
(3) Where the Commissioner has been required to furnish a
pre-sentence report, orally, the Commissioner shall present
his report in open court, and the offender to whom the report
relates or his or her attorney-at-law shall be entitled to challenge
the contents of such report.
(4) (a) Where the Commissioner has been required to
furnish his pre-sentence report in writing, the Commissioner
shall, a reasonable time before the date fixed for the passing of
sentance, cause a copy of his report to be made available, on
such terms with regard to confidentiality as he deems fit, to
the offender to whom the report relates or his or her attorney-
at-law and to the Attorney -General.
 (b)If the offender or the Attorney-General disputes the
whole or any part of the written pre-sentence report furnished
to court by the Commissioner, he or she may file a motion in
court indicating his or her intention to do so.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
(c) The court shall not take into consideration, for the
purposes of sentence, a pre-sentence report in respect of
which a motion has been filed under paragraph (b), unless the
offender to whom the report relates or his or her attorney-at-
law and the Attorney-General have been afforded an
opportunity of leading evidence on disputed matters and of
cross-examining the author of the report on its contents.
(5) The Commissioner or any person authorized by him
may make such inquiries and investigations as may be
necessary (including the examination of any records relating
to the offender), for the preparation of a pre-sentence report
he is required to furnish to court.
(6) Subject to any special directions given by court, a
pre-sentence report furnished to court by the Commissioner
in compliance with a requirement imposed on him under
subsection (1), shall set out all such matters as appear to the
Commissioner to be relevant to the sentencing of the offender
and as are readily ascertainable by him, including the following
:-
(a) the age of the offender;
(b) the social history and background of the offender
(including the names and ages of the persons
who are dependant on the offender);
(c) the medical and psychiatric history of the offender;
(d) the educational background of the offender;
(e) the employment history of the offender;
(f) any other offences of which the offender has been
found guilty or for which he or she is charged or
indicted;
(g) the extent to which the offender has complied
with any earlier sentence or is complying with
any sentence currently in force in respect of him
or her;

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
(h) the financial circumstances of the offender;
(i) any special needs of the offender;
(j) the employment history of the offender’s spouse
and the income earned by him or her;
(k) the courses, programmes, treatment or other
assistance that could be made available to the
offender and from which he or she may benefit;
(l) the facilities available for the performance of
unpaid community work.
(7) Where the court takes into consideration, for the
purposes of sentence, a pre-sentence report the contents of
which have been disputed in whole or in part, the court shall
record its reasons for doing so.
7. No community based correction order shall be entered
in respect of an offender, unless the offender consents in
writing, in the prescribed form, to the entering of such order.
8. Before entering a community based correction order in
respect of an offender, the court shall explain to the offender
in language that may readily be understood by the offender -
(a) the purpose and effect of the proposed order;
(b) the consequences that will follow if the offender
fails without reasonable cause to comply with the
conditions of the proposed order; and
(c) the manner in which the proposed order may be
varied.
9. (1) Every community based correction order shall be in
the prescribed form and shall  contain the following conditions-
(a) that the offender shall not commit, during the
period of the order, another offence punishable
on conviction with imprisonment;
Consent of the
offender required
for  community
based correction
order.
Effect of order to
be explained to
the offender.
Conditions of
community based
correction
orders.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
(b) that the offender reports to a specified community
corrections centre within seventy two hours of
the date of the order;
(c) that the offender reports to, and receives visits
from, an officer of the Community Based
Corrections Department on such dates as may be
specified by the officer in charge of that community
corrections centre;
(d) that the offender notifies the officer in charge of
the community corrections centre specified in the
order at least seven days before such change, of
any change of address, employment or
occupation;
(e) that the offender does not leave a specified area
except with the permission of the officer in charge
of the community corrections centre specified in
the order, being permission granted either generally
or in relation to a particular case;
(f)that the offender obeys all lawful rules, instructions
and directions issued by officers appointed under
section 2.
(2) The court may, for the purposes of -
(a) enabling any personal factors which contributed
to the offender’s criminal behaviour to be assessed;
(b) providing an opportunity for the offender to
recognize, to take steps  to control, and if necessary,
to receive treatment for, those factors; and
(c) enabling an offender with needs in areas directly
related to his or her criminal behaviour, to participate
in programmes designed to address those needs,
attach one or more of the following conditions to a community
based correction order:-
(i) that the offender performs unpaid community work
as directed by the officer in charge of the
community corrections centre specified in the order
for the period determined by court;

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
(ii)that the offender be under the supervision of an
officer of the community Based Corrections
Department designated by the Commissioner;
(iii)that the offender attends educational, vocational,
personal training or development programmes
determined by court and as directed by the
Commissioner; an offender with high needs in areas
directly related to his or her criminal behaviour
may be required to participate in programmes which
will address those needs;
(iv)that the offender undergoes assessment and
treatment for alcohol or drug addiction or submits
to medical, psychological or psychiatric
assessment and treatment as directed by court;
(v) that the offender submits to testing for alcohol or
drug use as directed by the officer in charge of the
community corrections centre specified in the
order;
(vi)any other condition that the court considers
necessary or desirable, having regard to the
purposes for which the order is being entered.
(3) In determining for the purposes of a community
based correction order, the period for which the offender in
respect of whom the order has been entered shall perform
unpaid community work, the court shall have regard to the
provisions of the Schedule to this Act, so however, that where
the term of imprisonment or the fine for which the offender is
liable for the offence in respect of which the order is entered
does not exceed the term or amount specified in Column I of
that Schedule, the period of unpaid community work shall, as
far as practicable, be equal to the period specified in the
corresponding entry in Column II of that Schedule.
(4) An offender directed to perform unpaid community
work under a community based correction order shall, in any
period of seven days, perform unpaid community work for not
less than ten hours and not more than twenty-four hours;

<!-- page 10 -->

9Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
Provided that the Commissioner may, on a request made to
him in writing by an offender, allow that offender to work for
upto forty hours in any period of seven days.
(5) If the Commissioner is satisfied that an offender is ill
or that there are other exceptional circumstances he may
notwithstanding anything in subsection (4), permit the
offender to perform less than ten hours of unpaid community
work in a period of seven days;
Provided however that permission given under this
subsection shall be deemed not to affect the duty of the
offender to perform unpaid community work for the number of
hours specified in the community based correction order
entered in respect of the offender.
(6) If a court makes separate community based correction
orders in respect of two or more offences committed by an
offender, the conditions of those orders shall be concurrent,
unless the court otherwise directs.
(7) The conditions of a community based correction
order made in respect of an offender shall, unless the court
therwise directs, be concurrent with those of any other
community based corrections order in force in respect of that
offender.
(8) A court shall not give a direction that would result in
the total number of hours of unpaid community work yet to be
performed by an offneder under a Community based correction
order, exceeding five hundred hours.
10. In assigning the unpaid community work to be
performed by an offender in respect of whom a community
based correction order has been entered, the officer in charge
of the community corrections centrespecified in such order
shall have regard to the age, health, education and the religious
and cultural beliefs of the offender, the distance of the proposed
worksite from the residence or place of employment of  the
offender and the possible interruption of the education or
employment of the offender.
Factors to be
considered in
assigning unpaid
community
work.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
11. During the continuance in force of a community based
correction order, the court entering such order may -
(a) upon application made by the offender in respect of
whom the order is entered or the Commissioner; and
(b) upon being satisfied that-
(i) the circumstances of the offender have materially
altered since the order was entered and as a result
the offender will not be able to comply with any
condition of the order; or
(ii)the circumstances of the offender were wrongly
presented, or were not accurately presented, to
the court or the author of the pre-sentence report,
before the order was made;
(iii)the offender is no longer willing to comply with
the order.
vary the order or cancel it and subject to subsection (2), deal
with the offender for the offence or offences in respect of
which it was entered in any manner in which the court could
deal with the offender if it had just found him or her guilty of
that  offence or those offences.
(2) Notice of every application made under subsection
(1) to vary or cancel a community based correction order shall
be given to the offender to whom the order relates, the
Commissioner and to the Attorney-General.
(3) In dealing with an offender following the cancellation
of a community based correction order entered in respect of
that offender, the court shall have regard to the extent to which
the offender had complied with the conditions of the order
before its cancellation.
12. (1) Where it is not convenient for an offender in respect
of whom a community based correction order has been
entered. to report to the community corrections centre specified
in the community based correction order, by reason of change
of place of residence or work palce or other cause.
Variation of
community
based correction
orders.
Commissioner
may direct
offender to
appear before
another person or
at another place
& c.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
he or she shall forthwith inform the Commissioner, and the
Commissioner may direct the offender to report at another
community corrections centre.
(2) An offender shall attend at the place or report to the
person, as directed by the Commissioner under subsection
(1) as if such place or person were specified in the community
based correction order entered in respect of such offender.
13. Where the Commissioner is satisfied that an offender in
respect of whom a community based correction order has
been entered is unable to comply with the order by reason of
illness or other  exceptional cause, the Commissioner may
suspend the operation of the order or any condition thereof
for a specified period, and the period so specified shall be
disregarded in calculating the period for which the community
based correction order shall remain in force.
14. (1) Any offender who fails without reasonable cause, to
comply with any condition of a community based  correction
order shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall be
liable, on conviction after summary trail, to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees.
(2) Where  a person commits an offence under subsection
(1) the Commissioner shall institute proceedings in respect of
that offence by making a written report to the Court which
entered the community based correction order in relation to
which the default is alleged to have been made, to the effect
that the person specified in the report has failed to comply
with the conditions of the order specified in the report.
(3) Upon the making of a written report to it under
subsection (2) in respect of an offence under subsection (1),
the court may issue summons or warrant of arrest on the
offender and proceed to try such offence in the manner
provided by the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. No. 15 of
1979 for the trial of offences summarily.
Suspension of
community
based correction
order.
Failure to
comply with
community
based correction
order an
offence.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
(4) Upon the conviction of any person for an offence
under sub section (1), the court may -
(a) vary the community based correction order in respect
of which the default was made;
(b) cancel such order.
if such order is for the time being in force.
(5) Upon the cancellation of a community based
correction order, the court may subject to the provisions of
sub section (6) deal with the offender for the offence or
offences in respect of which the order was entered in any
manner in which the court could have dealt with the offender
had it just found him or her guilty of that offence.
(6) In dealing with an offender following the cancellation
of a community based correction order, the court shall have
regard to the extent to which the offender had complied with
the conditions of the order before its cancellation.
15. (1) Where an offender in respect of whom a
community based correction order has been entered for default
of payment of a fine, pays to court, at any time during which
the order is in force, a part of that fine the commissioner shall,
upon proof of payment, reduce the period specified in  such
order by such period as is equal to the proportion which the
amount paid bears to the amount of the fine:
Provided that the other conditions of the order shall
continue to be in force.
(2) Where the only condition attached to a community
based correction order is the performance of unpaid
community work by the offender to whom the order relates
and the Commissioner issues a certificate to the effect that
such offender has satisfactorily performed the community work
assigned to him or her during the period specified in the order,
the offender shall be deemed to have complied with the
conditions of such order.
Effect of part
payment of fine
or completion
of programme
condition of
order.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
PART  III
G ENERAL
16. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposes
of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and provisions
of this Act and in respect of all matters which are required or
authorized by this Act to be prescribed.
(2) Every regulation made by the minister shall be published
in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of
such publication or on such later date as may be specified in
the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon as
convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be laid before
Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded with effect from the
date of such disapproval without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. Notification of the date on which
a regulation is so deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.
17. (1) The Commissioner may make rules in respect of the
administration and management of community correction
centres established for the purposes of this Act or of a
particular community correction centre.
(2) No rule made under sub section (1) shall have effect
until it is approved by the Minister and notification of such
approval is published in the Gazette.
18. Where Part II of this Act is brought into operation in
any judicial division or judicial zone, by an Order made under
section I, courts exercising criminal jurisdiction in that judicial
division or judicial zone, as the case may be, shall cease to
exercise the powers conferred on them by section 18 of the
Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979.
Regulations.
Rules.
Application of
section 18 of
Act No. 15 of
1979.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Community Based Corrections
Act, No. 46 of 1999
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
20. In this Act, “judicial division” and “judicial zone” mean
a judicial division and judicial zone determined respectively,
by an order made under section 3 of the judicature Act, No. 1
of 1978.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Interpretation.
SCHEDULE [Section 9(3)]
Column I
TERM OF IMPRISONMENT
OR AMOUNT OF FINE
1 year or over.
6 months or over but less than 1
year.
Less than 6 months
Five thousand rupees or over.
Four thousand rupees or over but
under five thousand rupees.
Three thousand five hundred
rupees or over but under four
thousand rupees.
Three thousand rupees or over
but under three thousand five
hundred rupees.
Below three thousand rupees.
Column II
PERIOD OF UNPAID
COMMUNITY WORK
200 to 300 hours over a period
of 1 year
100 to 200 hours over a period
of 6 months
50 to 100 hours over period of
3 months.
200 to 300 hours over a period
of two years.
150 to 200 hours over a period
of one and a half years.
75 to 150 hours over a period of
one year.
50 to 75 hours over a period of
six months.
50 to 75 hours over a period of
three months.

<!-- page 16 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of  the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.