

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'04'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
369
wxl 1"859 - 2014 wfm%a,a ui 17 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'04'17
No. 1,859 – THURSDAY , APRIL  17, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  09th May, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th April,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ... ––
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 370
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
369
N.B.— Parts I:III and III of the Gazette No. 1,858 of 11.04.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
370
DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE - WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
One year Vocational Course of Training in Agriculture cum Field assistant (Agriculture) NVQ - 4 Training Course to
be conducted at the District Agriculture Training Centres Homagama (male) and Walpita (Female) 2014/2015
THE Provincial Director of Agriculture, Western Province invite appications for the recruitment & students for the above
course and training. The course will be conducted in the Sinhala Medium. This course & training is targeted for those who
intend either to find employment in agricultural sector or engage in self-employment agricultural ventures.
02. Certificates will be awarded by Department of Agriculture, Western Province to those who successfully complete
this course which will be in the forum of practical and theoretical training. Further more arrangements will be made for the
trainees to obtain NVQ 4. National V ocational Qualifications from the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
The subjects of the course as follows:
For NVQ 4
1. M-01 – Supervision of land preparation and soil conservation
2. M-02  – Supervision of establishment and maintenance of plant nurseries
3. M-03 – Supervision of establishment and maintenance of crops in the field
4. M-04  – Supervision of harvesting/processing of machinery and equipment
5. M-05  – Supervision of operational maintenance of machinery and equipment
6. M-06 – Administration functions
7. M-07  – Occupational Safety
In addition - Animal husbandry, Rice cultivation, Home Economics, Entrepreneurship
In presenting this course of training through the aforesaid subjects, familiarization in the latest findings relating to
the development of modern agricultural technology (e.g. Post harvest technology, Greenhouse cultivation), self-employment
techniques (e.g. Landscaping, Farm accounts, maintenance of farm equipment and training in tractor driving) and a training
modern methods of processing of information ( e.g. operation of computers) will be provided to students. Development of
English knowledge of students and an understanding of the contemporary agriculture policy will also be provided.
03.  Conducting of the course of Training
The course which is over a period of one year consists of three terms. At the end of second term, When training in
all the modules is over written and practical tests are conducted. Also continuous evaluation is done throughout the modules.
Educational tours are organized within first and second terms. During the third term all students are required to follow a project
study in the selected  field, in conjunction with an external agriculture project/institutions. Students are required to submit a
project report at the end of the study. The final written and pratical test will be held on conclusion and there after certificate
will be awarded to the students who complete 85% attendance and are successful upon a continuous evaluation. In the
meantime arrangements are made for students to face necessary assessments and obtain NVQ 4 National V ocational Qualication
Certificate on “Field Assistant (Agriculture)” from the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
04.  Scheme of Recruitment
04.1 Educational Qualifications:
Passes in six subjects with 02 credits including Sinhala Language (Language or Literature), Mathematics, Science,
Social Studies and a Technical subject (Agriculture, Needle work, Home Gardening, Home Economics, Accounts and Commerce,
Motor Mechanics) at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in not more than two sittings.
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'04'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
371
04. 02   Other Qualifications :
(I) All  applicants should be between the age of 17 and 25 years on the date of calling of applications.
(II) Applicants should be unmarried.
(III) Applicants should be in a physical condition suitable for practical agriculture (in proof where of a certificate
obtained from a Government Medical Officer should be submitted at the commencement of the course).
(IV) Eligible candidates will be called for an interview to be held by the Provincial Director of Agriculture, and
selection will be made on the results thereof.
(V) Preference will be given to persons who are engaged in agriculture and are prepared to continue it as a
vocation.
(VI) Applicants should adduce proof of permanent residence within the Western Province for at least two years
out of the three years immediately preceding the closing date of applications, with a certificate of residence
obtained from the Divisional Secretary of the area.
In addition
Where any person who possesses the educational and other qualifications and are not residents whithin the Western
Province, are desirous of following the course they will also be afforded an opportunity. However, residents of the Western
Province will be given priority in making selection. It has been decided to select applicants outside the Western Province
through and interview if a sufficient number of applications are not received within the Province.
05.  Incentive allowance for the course of training
(I) An incentive allowance of two hundred & Fifty Rupees (Rs. 250) for each day of attendance for training will
be paid to each trainee during the period of training. This allowance will have to be utilized to meet the cost
of meals.
(II) All trainees will be provided with residential facilities during the period of training free of charge.
06.  Procedure to be observed in participation in the course of training.
(I) A deposit of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 250) should be furnished.
(II) Basic facilities for engaging in agriculture after the completion of training should be available at least on a
small scale.
(III) It is spe cially emphasized that neither the Western Provincial Council nor the Central Government is under
any obligation to provide employment after the completion of training.
(IV) A written undertaking should be given agreeing to comply with general rules and regulations imposed by the
Training Institute.
(V) The authorities will take action to cancel the studentship of those who engage in any act of indiscipline and
any act in contravention of the rules and regulations during the period of training.
07.  Applications prepared on a sheet of paper 81/2" x 12" (A4) using both sides and in accrodance with the specimen
form appended, should be sent under registered cover to reach the Provincial Director of Agriculture, Office of the Provincial
Director of Agriculture (Western), No. 154, Prof. Nandadasa Kodagoda Mawatha, Colombo 07 on or before 30th June, 2014.
The words “Application for the V ocational course of Training in Agriculture 2014/2015” should be written on the top left-hand
of the envelope containing the application.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
372
I. The decision of the Provincial Director of Agriculture of the Western Province, with regard to recruitment shall
be final.
II. Any application which is incomplete or not in order will be rejected without notice. Only a limited number of
selected applicants will be called for an interview.
III. Since only school-leevers will be considered for selection, it is compulsory for the school-leaving certificate to
be produced at the interview.
IV . Copies of two character certificates, one from the school where the applicant was educated, and another from a
person of standing in the area and copies of educational and other qualifications should be annexed to the
application.
V. Original of the educational and other certificates together with the National Identity Card should be furnished
at the interview.
I. U. M
ENDIS,
Provincial Director of Agriculture,
Western Province.
Office of the Provincial Director of Agriculture,
(Western),
No. 154,
Prof. Nandadasa Kodagoda Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
April 2014 .
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM FOR RECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR THE ONE YEAR VOCATIONAL COURSE
OF TRAINING IN AGRICULTURE CUM FIELD ASSISTANT (AGRICULTURE) NVQ-4 TRAINING AT THE
 DISTRICT  AGCRICULTURE  TRAINING  CENTRES  OF HOMAGAMA (MALE) AND WALPITA (FEMALE) FOR THE
YEAR  2014/2015
1. Full Name of Applicant (In English Capital Letters) :
2. Name with initials (In English Capital Letters) :
3. (1) Permanent Address (In English Capital letters) :
(II) District of Residence :

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'04'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
373
(III) Mobile Tel. No. :
(IV) Residential Tel. No.:
4. Sex : Female: Male:
5. Date of Birth : Y ear: Month: Date:
6. (I) Identity Card No. :
(II) Institution & date of Issue : ———————————.
7. Name of Father or Guardian : ———————————.
8. Address of Father or Guardian : ———————————.
9. Educational Qualifications :
(a) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination (year ......................)
                 Subjects Passed Grade Subjects Passed Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
(b)  General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination (year ..............)
Subjects Passed Grade Subjects Passed Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
     (c)  General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination (year ..............)
Subjects Passed Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'17
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
374
10. Other Qualifications/Extra Curricular Activities :
I.  ———————————.
II.  ———————————.
III. ———————————.
11. Have you been selected for a course of study in a Higher Educational Institute or a Technical College? If so, give details
:
I, hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are true and accurate. I am aware that my traineeship is liable to
be cancelled without any inquiry after I am selected, If any of the particulars furnished herein are found to be incorrect.
———————————.
Signature of the Applicant.
Date : ———————.
04 - 477
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.