

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
INSTITUTE OF APPLIED STATISTICS,
SRI LANKA(INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 38 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 20th September, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
Short title
2—PL 005052 —3,090 (07/2010)
[Certified on 20th September, 2011]
L.D.—O.(Inc.) 20/2010.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  INSTITUTE  OF  APPLIED  STATISTICS ,
SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Applied
Statistics Association of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out it’s objects and transacting all matters connected with
the said Association according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of Applied
Statistics, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Applied
Statistics Association of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to
as the “Association”) and shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name
may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to have
and use a  common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote and assist the advancement of applied
statistics by furtherance of research, development,
education, training and extension;
Preamble.
Incorporation of
Institute of
Applied
Statistics,
Sri Lanka.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
2
(b) to undertake or collaborate in the preparation,
publication and dissemination of useful
information pertaining to applied statistics by
means of seminars and lectures and the publication
of articles on applied statistics in the Journal titled
the“Sri Lankan Journal of Applied Statistics” to
foster the training of research workers;
(c) to undertake research in the area of statistics with
the object of improving experimental techniques,
statistical methods and data analysis;
(d) to conduct short courses, certificate courses and
diploma courses and to award certificates and
diplomas for those who successfully complete the
requirements as set out in the rules of the
Corporation;
(e) to co-operate with governmental and non-
governmental organizations and national and
international institutes engaged in the work related
to statistics in order to promote research,
development, education, training and extension; and
(f) to promote professional interests of the members of
the Corporation.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Council shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out wihtout any distinction
based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinion
or place of birth.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 6, be
administered by a Executive Council (in this Act refferd to
as the “Council”) consisting of the President, Vice President
and other office bearers elected or appointed in accordance
with the rules of the Corporation made under section 6.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
(2) The first Council shall consist of the members of the
Executive Council of the Association holding office on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to:—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable property for
the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in that behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts
or agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind;
(d) invest its funds, and to maintain current, deposits
and savings accounts in any bank;
(e) borrow or invest money for the pusposes of the
Corporation in such manner and upon such security
as the Corporation may think fit;  and
(f) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
Genenal powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
4
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law on all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of office-bearers, the resignation from
or vacation of, or removal from office of, office
bearers and their powers, duties and functions;
(c) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be observed or the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation and
the Council, the time, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings and the quorum therefor and the
conduct of business thereat;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds;
(f) establishing committees for the proper execution
of the objects of the Corporation; and
(g) qualifications and disqualifications of members of
the Corporation and the Council.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,
contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shall
be deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation in
one or more Banks as may be determined by the Council.
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out
of the fund.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by the Council.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means-
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant issued by
such institutes ; or
(b) a firm of accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by such institutes.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever except  in the presence of Chairman and either
the Secretay or the Treasurer duly authorized by the Council
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
6
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
12. The moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the
members of the Corporation.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Corporation shall be able and capable in law  to acquire and
hold any property, movable or immovable, which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of  the
Corporation and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other association or associations having
Debts due by
and payable to
the Association.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Application  of
moneys and
property.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which
is, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or profit among its or their members. Such
association or associations shall be determined by the
members  of the Corporation at or immediately before the
time of dissolution of the Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, and of any body politic or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Institute of Applied Statistics, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 38 of 2011
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.