

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of May 20, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 23. 05. 2016)
A
BILL
(Private Member’ s Bill)
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
AMEER ALI FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Mohamed Navavi
to incorporate the Ameer Ali Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Ameer Ali Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009955—325 (05/2016)
Preamble.
Short title.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE AMEER ALI FOUNDATION
WHERE an Association called and known as the
“Ameer Ali Foundation ” has heretofore been formed at
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the “
Ameer Ali Foundation”
(Incorporation) Act, No.      of 2016.
2. From and after the date of the commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“
Ameer Ali Foundation ” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the 
“Ameer Ali
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be as follows:—
(a) to participate in social, cultural and economic
development of the country;
Incorporation
of the Ameer
Ali
Foundation 
.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Ameer Ali Foundation (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to advise and assist all communities in Sri Lanka to
live in peace and harmony;
(c) to implement leadership programmes;
(d) to implement educational and training programmes
for the development of the children and women;
(e) to assist affected people in disaster situations
and to uplift their life style and to provide legal
aid and advice where neccessary for needy
people;
(f) to grant scholarships to needy school children to
enable them to continue their education;
(g) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or cast
and to  provide with adequate funds and implement
of food schemes for the state and private
orphanages;
(h) to provide for securing and maintaining discipline
and cultural ethics;
(i) to take necessary steps to promote artistic creations,
sport skills and technical knowledge of school
leavers and set up vocational training centers;
(j) fishermen and farmers to be provided with the
required equipments to develop the industry;
(k) to stop proliferation drug menace and to rehablitate
drug addicts;
(l) youth to be provided financial assistance for self
employment; and

<!-- page 4 -->

3Ameer Ali Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(m) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions when have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with
such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation
Hon.  Minister Ameer  Ali shall be Chairman of the Board of
Directors for life and thereafter, the family members of the
person who was holding office as the Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things  what
so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security,  to erect
any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than  two-thirds of the members present
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30 Rules of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Ameer Ali Foundation (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
30
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistence with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or replaced at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Ameer Ali Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
or grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, agreement or testamentary disposition or otherwise
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which,
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
11. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calender year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and  audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

Ameer Ali Foundation (Incorporation)6
5
10
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporaton, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such  signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or anybody corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Ameer Ali Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .