

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
1A
My No.: CI/1862.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between The Bata Shoe Company of Ceylon Ltd, No. 100, General Sir John Kotalawala
Road, Ratmalana of the one part and the Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 02 of the
other part on 14th August 2018  is  hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the
Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of  Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th  May, 2019.
Collective Agreement No. 32 of 2018
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made the 14th day of August 2018, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between  THE
BATA SHOE COMPANY OF CEYLON LIMITED, having its registered office at No. 100, General Sir John Kotalawala Road,
Ratmalana (hereinafter referred to as  “the Company”) of the ONE PART and, WANIJA  HA  KARMIKA  SEWAKA  SANGAMAYA,
Trade Union duly registered under the Provisions of the Trade unions ordinance and, having its registered office at No. 17,
Barracks Lane, Colombo 2, (hereinafter referred to as  “the Union”)  of the OTHER  PART  witnesseth and it is hereby agreed
between the parties as follows:
1A – G30100 – 15  (2019/05)
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
¡â¨ 2123/63 – 2019 uehs 16 Éæ¾ø n%yiam;skaod – 2019.05.16
No. 2123/63 – THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
TITLE
This Agreement shall be known and referred to as THE  BATA  MANUAL  AND  LABOUR  WORK FORCE  COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT  2018.
PART  I
CONTAINING  TERMS AND  CONDITIONS OF  EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS  INCIDENTAL
THERETO  OR CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Employees to be Covered and Bound.- This agreement shall cover and bind only members of the union who are
employed in a manual or laboring capacity by the company, but will not be applicable to employees employed in such
capacities who are on probation or are employed by the day or by the job or by the journey.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.- This Agreement shall be effective as from the 1st day of Junuary 2018 until
31st December 2020.
3. Authorised Version.- In the event of any dispute regarding the interpretation of this Agreement as between the
English and Sinhala versions, the English version shall prevail.
4. Matters Covered and Variation of  Terms and Conditions of Employment or Benefits.-
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein and in the event of any
conflict or inconsistency between matters provide for in this Agreement and any pre-existing terms of practices,
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
(b) The Union and its members shall not, during the continuance in force of this Agreement, seek to vary, alter or
add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits presently applicable to or enjoyed by
any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such terms and conditions are provided
for in this Agreement or otherwise, other than by mutual Agreement.
(c) The Company agrees that during the continuance in force of this Agreement it shall not vary, alter or withdraw
all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by the employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than
by mutual agreement, except to  the extent that such benefits have been modified by the terms of this
Agreement.
(d) Any dispute or difference under the provisions of sub-clause (b) or (c) but excluding a dispute arising from the
termination of the services of an employee may be resolved by voluntary arbitration only if both parties to this
Agreement agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary arbitration. In the event of
either party not agreeing to voluntary arbitration no application shall be made by either party to have any
dispute referred  for settlement under Section 4(1) or (2) of the Industrial Disputes Act 1950 (as amended) in
relation to any matter referred to in sub-clause (b) and (c) except a dispute arising from the termination of the
service of any employee.
5. Standing Orders .– On any matter not expressly provided in this Agreement, the employee shall be bound by the
Standing Orders and Rules of the Company in force from time to time and such Standing Orders and Rules shall be deemed
to form a part and parcel of the contracts of employment of each employee.
6. Wages:–
(i)(a) The Company will continue to pay by results according to the prevailing system of standard production wage
basis which contains incentives for employees and as from the first day of January 2018 shall pay in terms of
Schedule A hereto.
(b) All standard production wages are detemined by the Company using scientific work study methods and it is
agreed that all such figures and the Company standard production wages rates shall be treated at all times as
Company’s confidential information which shall not be divulged to outsiders.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
3A
(c) As all standard production wages have been determined with reference to the present methods of work, present
machinery and equipment, the same may be changed by the Company when there is a change in the content
of work, in machinery, material used, in equipment, in work layout, supply of work handled or  other
circumstances under which the employee can deliver the required output.
(d) When an employee is put on a new operation, the employee affected will be guaranteed his past average
earnings for the next four weeks during which period the employee is required to achieve the standard output
as per training programme. The past average earnings mean; earnings for the last four weeks immediately
preceding, excluding overtime  and other extra payments. If the earnings are below his minimum basic wage
he will be paid between the Minimum and the Maximum as an average.
(e) Employees who as at the date of this Agreement are on weekly fixed wage Scales, shall as from the first day of
January 2018 be paid on the wages scales set out in schedule B hereto.
(f) Employees who as at the date of this Agreement are on monthly fixed wage scales shall as from the first day of
January 2018 be paid on the wages scales set out in schedule C hereto. Employees in the Engineering Grade
who as at the date of this Agreement are on monthly fixed wage scales shall as from the first day of January
2018 be paid on the wage scales set out in Schedule D hereto with the relevant conditions laid in the Schedule
DD.
(g) If as a result of power failure, machine breakdown or absenteeism which is not the direct or indirect result of the
action or conduct of any employee or an employee on standard production wages or otherwise is unable to
achieve his basic minimum wage, his earnings will be made upto his daily minimum basic wage. the Company
shall guarantee basic minimum wage, except in the event of trade union action, such as stricks or go - slow,
refusal to work, disrupting work whether such action is on written notification or otherwise and the employees
in such situations will only be entitled to a basic minimum wage calculated up to the actual number of hours
they have worked.
(h) Every employee is expected to achieve the Standard Output in terms of the Standard Production Minutes
System which is part and parcel of the contract of employment.
(ii) (a) To correct any incorrect standard production minutes of any operation, prevailing at present, the company
will use work study   methods to establish Standard Production Minutes. In the event of the established
Standard Production Minutes cannot be achieved with the combined or single operations, with maximum
production done in that department so far, the maximum production done in that department or other department
for same or similar operations will be considered to establish standard production minutes.
(b) All employees, if they so wish will be allowed to earn up to 120% standard production wage basic.
(c) In the event of an employee earning over 120% of standard production wage basis he/she shall not be entitled
to any payment for production over the 120% limit and the standard production minutes of the operation will
be identified by the Company to be wrongly established. The company shall re-study such operations with the
view to establishing and implementing correct standard production minutes.
(d) The above shall constitute the usual production process in the Company and not be subject to any negotiation
or review in future.
(e) It  is agreed between parties that with the wages and production process being amended as aforesaid the red
circle rates will be eliminated.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
(iii) Shift Allowance :–
(a) The shift allowance payable to employees who work on shifts shall be as follows according to their earnings
for the shifts.
1st year 17.5%
2nd year 17.5%
3rd year  20 %
(b) Earnings for this purpose shall mean an employee's earnings in terms of Schedules A ,B, C, and D hereof as the
case may be.
(c) The Company will be provided  a cup of Nestomalt and Breakfast to first shift (6.00 am to 2.00 pm) before they
commence work.
7.       Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity :–
(a) Each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid a Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity
in April each year in respect of the Preceding twelve months (1st April to 31st March hereinafter referred to as
the "Qualifying Period") commencing from April  ascertained in accordance with the under-noted  formula :
The Formula
(a) If the average of Colombo consumers price index figure for the qualifying period exceeds 1750.0 points in the
first year, second year 1750.0 points and in the third year 2000.0 points, then the employees should be paid in
accordance with Schedule 'A' and 1850.0 points in the first year, second year 1850.0 points and the third year
2100.0 points in the case of employees paid in accordance with schedules B, C, & D a sum computed at Rupees
2/- (Two) for each completed point (ie 1.0).
(b) The Non - Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity shall also be payable to an employee who is in employment only
during part of the qualifying period either by virtue of the fact that he joins the Company's services during the
qualifying period or is not in the Company's services when the Non - recurring cost of Living Gratuity
becomes payable in April of any year. In the case of such employees their Non-Recurring Cost of Living
Gratuity shall be calculated on the basis of Rupees Two (Rs. 2/-) for each completed point by which the
average exceeds the base index figure first year  1750.0 points  in the second year 1750.0 points and third year
2000.0 points or first year, 1850.0 points second year  1850.0 points and third year 2100.0 points during the
months in which such employees were in employment.
(c) Provided that in the event the Government of Sri Lanka discontinuing the publication CCPI figures, parties
agreed to meet to discuss the basis on which this payment could be continued.
8.       Casual Leave :–
(a) An employee covered by this Agreement shall, in respect of each year of Employment, during which he has
been continuosly in employment, will be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable
cause, including ill health if the employee entitlement of sick leave has been fully utilized, seven day's casual
leave with remuneration.
(b) Not more than two day's casual leave shall be taken on consecutive days at any time except where such leave
is on the grounds of ill health. Any casual leave availed of on the ground of ill health shall be subject to the
provisions relating to sick leave in this Agreement.
(c) No employee shall be entitled to casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of
annual  leave.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
5A
(d) In respect of any employee's first year of employment, excluding any period of probation, his casual leave
shall be computed on the basis of one day for each completed period of two months service.
(e) Casual Leave will normally be granted on written application without the employee being required to state
the reason for the application. Where the Company finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave its
difficulty shall be notified to the employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case
the employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the Company may decide
whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual leave.
(f) An employee shall make his written application for caual leave 24 hours in advance else his absence will be
unauthorized and will be without pay.
9.       Sick  Leave :–
(a) In any one year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave with remuneration not exceeding 21 days provided
that:
(i) His illness supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner and the leave is recommended
by the Company Doctor ; and
(ii) The employee has been in the Company's service for not less than six months immediately preceding such
leave.
(b)In the first year of employment an employee's sick leave entitlement shall be computed on the basis of two
working days for each completed period of two months service.
(c) An employee substituting for another employee who is on maternity leave shall whenever necessary be re-
assigned to the work he/she was performing before the assignment or work in a similar grade job on the return
of the employee from maternity leave. On re-assignment of his/her previous job, the employee will be paid the
standard production wage rates earned.
(d) An employee will be permitted to avail himself  Leave unsupported by a Medical Certificate subject to the
following provisions:
(i) The period in respect of which such unsupported Sick Leave will be allowed shall not exceed one day.
(ii) The number of occasions on which such unsupported Sick Leave shall be allowed in any one year
shall not exceed eight occasions.
(iii) Where an employee has on eight occasions in an year availed himself/herself of Sick Leave unsupported
by a Medical Certificate, any further Sick Leave in that year shall be covered with a Medical Certificate
and he shall inform the company of his inability to report for work before the end of his shift (other
than third shift employee who shall inform of his inability to report for work before the end of the
general shift immediately following) if this procedure is not followed either in respect the submission
of a valid Medical Certificate or informing the Company as aforementioned, his absence will
be unauthorised and will be without pay.
10.       Annual  Leave :–
(a) An employee will be entitled to annual leave in terms of the decisions of the Wages Board for the Tanning,
Footwear and Leather Goods Manufacturing Trade subject to the sub-clause (b) hereunder.
(b) The Company shall be entitled to calendar 10 days of the said annual leave on consecutive working days
during any year depending on the need to do so.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
(c) The balance annual leave, if any, may be availed of by an employee at times convenient  to both the employee
and the Company by giving written application for leave 24 hours in advance else his absence will be
unauthorized and will be without pay.
11.      Holidays :–
(a) The holiday with remuneration allowed each year shall be those listed in the Company's Standing Orders and
Rules and / or prescribed by the Wages Board decision for the Tanning , Footwear and Leather Goods
Manufacturing Trade.
(b) The Company will be entitled to call upon an employee to work on any such Holiday and the employee shall
be liable to perform such work unless he / she furnished the Company with a reasonable excuse personal to
him.
12.      Provident Fund :–
(a) The company shall contribute 12 percent and each employee eight  percent (8%) of an employee's earnings
each week or month, as the case may be, to the Provident Fund.
(b) Earnings' for this purpose shall mean only the earnings of an employee in terms of Schedules A, B, C, D and E
hereto.
13.      Bonus :–
(a) The Company will pay to each employee a Bonus equivalent to one and half months (1 1/2) (1/12th of the
Gross Earnings)
(b) In computing the Bonus twelve months period will be :
(i) In case of weekly paid employees the 52 week ending with week 44 of the year in which the Bonus is paid.
(ii) In the case of monthly paid employees twelve months ending on 31st October of the year in which the Bonus
is paid.
(iii) For above calculation 1/12th of Provident Fund deductible income should be taken (excluding) overtime
non-recurring cost of living gratuity, night shift allowance and other extra payments.
(iv) The Union agrees that they shall not raise a dispute on the payment of any Bonus which is stated in the
collective agreement.
(c) The gross earnings, excluding overtime, non-recurring cost of living gratuity and other extra payment for the
52 weeks period in the case of standard production wage earners will be computed thus :
All earnings for the bonus year less overtime, non-recurring cost of living gratuity, shift allowance and other
extra payments will be aggregated and divided by the total of the number of days in which the employee had
actually worked and the number  of days on which he had been on paid leave during the bonus year. The
portion will be a days average earnings of the employee. Provided that if a day's average earnings of an
employee is less than 1/16th of the Minimum Basic Wage, then the Minimum Basic Wage will be deemed to
be a day's Average earnings of that employee for the purpose of computing bonus. The gross earnings for the
bonus year will be a day's average earnings multiplied by the total number of days on which the employee had
actually worked plus the number of days on which he had been on paid leave during the bonus year.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
7A
(d) Retiring Employees :
It is Agreed to pay proportionate bonus, only for the retiring employee, if any employee served at least 9
months on her/his retirement Year. (Weekly paid employee - week 31 and Monthly paid employee - 31st
July)
14. Grievance Procedure :–
(a) Any employee is free to make representations to the Management in respect of an individual grievance,
dispute or other matter and the procedure for settling the same is as follows:
(i) In the first instance, the matter shall be discussed with the department Supervisor.
(ii) If the matter is not settled by the departmental Supervisor, the employee may then, together with a Branch
Union Committee Member in the employee's department, discuss the matter with the Group Supervisor who
may, if he thinks it desirable, discuss the matter or refer same to the Factory Superintendent or Assistant
Manager.
(iii) In the event if the matter not being satisfactorily settled at stage (ii), the employee may together with a
Branch Union representative discuss the matter with the Factory Manager.
(iv) In the event if the matter not being satisfactorily settled at stage (iii), the matter may be submitted in writing
to the  Human Resources Manager.
(v) In the event if the matter not being satisfactorily settled at stage (iv) the Branch Union may make an appeal
to the Managing Director or his deputy in his absence.
(vi) If no settlement is reached and the dispute related to any term or condition of employment or benefit,
Clause 4 hereof shall apply.
(b) The Branch Union is free to make representations to the Management in respect of any grievance or other
matter affecting the employees covered and bound by this Agreement generally and the procedure for settling
the same shall be as follows:
(i) The Branch Union shall submit the matter in writing to the Human Resources Manager for settlement.
(ii) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at stage (i) above, the Branch Union may make an
appeal to the Managing Director.
(iii) In the event of there being no satisfactory settlement after following ( ii) above, the Union may make
representations to the Employer's Federation of Ceylon and thereafter to the Commissioner of Labour.
(iv) If notwithstanding of the above no settlement is reached and the dispute related to any term or condition of
employment or benefit, whether covered by this Agreement or otherwise, Clause 4 hereof shall apply.
15. Warnings and Communications :–
(a) If in the opinion of the  Company an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the employee
by a letter.
(b) An employee who refuses to accept receipt of a written communication by the Company shall be liable to
disciplinary action.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
16. Purchase of Leave :–
(a) In respect of 2018 and subsequent years the Company will pay each employee a sum of money representing
one day's basic minimum wage for each day of sick and casual leave not availed of by an employee, out of his
sick and casual leave entitlement in respect of that year.
(b) This payment in respect of any particular year will be made on or before 31st January of the succeeding year.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 9 hereof, where an employee has taken 14 days of his 21 days of Sick
Leave, 25% of his Annual Bonus will be paid.
In according to above (16-c) -
If an employee has additional 7 days leave made up of both Sick and Casual totalling up to 14 days, will be
paid 50% of his Annual Bonus.
17. Retirement :–
(a) On reaching the age of 60 years in the case of males and 50 in the case of females an employee shall ipso facto
retire and cease to be employed and there shall be no obligation on the employer to give the employee any
notice of retirement.
(b) For the purpose of determining the retirement age of an employee the date of birth as set out in the employee's
Birth Certificate shall apply and, in its absence, the age shown in the National Identity Card. In the event of
both the Birth Certificate and National Identity Card not being available the age as declared by the employee
to the Company is the Official application form for employment shall determine the employee's age for the
purpose of retirement.
(c) The Company may in its sole and absolute discretion offer temporary employment to an employee after his
retirement on terms and conditions mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee.
18. Suspension :–
(a) An employee may be suspended without pay by the Company.
(i) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Company on a charge or charges of Misconduct which warrants
dismissal.
(ii) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of the business of the
Company.
(iii) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry.
(b) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (a) (I) hereof  or within twenty four (24) hours thereof , the
Company shall provide the employee with a written order or letter of suspension specifying the reason for such
suspension, and thereafter hold an inquiry into the charge or charges against him , if the Management considers
it necessary to establish the guilt or innocence of the accused.
(c) If the Company after such inquiry makes order that :–
(i) The employee shall not be dismissed, then the employee shall resume work forthwith and shall, subject to
sub-clause (a) (iii) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due during the period of suspension irrespective
of any other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Company on the findings as to the
charge or charges against the employee.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
9A
(ii) The employee shall be dismissed, the employee's dismissal shall take effect as from the date of his suspension
and accordingly he shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
(iii) In view of the seriousness involved in the nature of the charge or charges against the employee, the
Company is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the
Police or other authorities for futher investigations or inquiries and the matter is therefore referred to the
Police or other authorities or in view of the seriousness involved in the nature of the charge or charges
preferred against the employee, the matter has been previously referred to the Police of other authorities for
investigations or inquiries and that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be awaited then in
either of such circumstances the employee shall be suspended without pay.
(d) If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein the Company fails to make an order under
paragraph (i) to (iii) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee's own seeking
within thirty (30) working days from the date of the employee's suspension, the employee shall be entitled to
half  his normal wages for the period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full wages
for the period of suspension in excess of thiry (30) days up to the date on which the Company makes an order
under paragraph (i) to (iii) of the preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(e) Suspension under sub-clause (a) (ii) hereof may continue for so long as the employee's continuance in
employment with or is likely to be undesirable to be prejudicial to the proper investigation of the charges or
the employer carrying on his bussiness.
19. Non Union Activities :–
The Union undertaken not to interfere in any of the following matters :
(a) Social functions organised by the Company,
(b) Welfare services organised or sponsored by the Company,
(c) Other activities which are directly or indirectly sponsored by the Company,
(d) Matters that do not concern in membership.
20. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the employees covered and bound by the agreement agree that during the
continuance of this Agreement or any renewal therof , they shall not engage in any strike, go slow, boycott, demonstration
or any other form of trade union or  collective action in respect of any industrial dispute between the Company and the
employees or the Company and the  Union whether or not such dispute is related to this Collective Agreement.
21. Overtime.– If required by the Company, an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised
by the Company. Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is personal to the
employee and an  acceptable to the Company shall constitute misconduct for which the employee shall be liable to
disciplinary action.
22. Employees Transfers :–
(a) The provisions of this clause shall apply only in the event of a transfer within a department or to another
department arising in consequence of a reduction in production or the elimination of a particular operation
thus resulting in excess staff on that particular operation.
(b) The term "Transfer" used herein shall have the meaning assigned to it in ‘a’ above.
(c) Where the proposed transfer is for a period less than three months, the Company will first attempt to provide
the employee with work in the same department and his production earnings will be paid.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
(d) If the Company cannot find work for him in the same department on another operation he has performed
earlier, the most junior Operator will be transferred to another department where his production earnings will
be paid.
(e) If on a transfer within or outside his department he does not achieve his minimum basic wage, he will
nevertheless be paid his minimum basic wages except in the event of a deliberate "go slow".
(f) In the event of a transfer, the employee's name, new operation and the period of his transfer must be submitted
to the Personnel department using the relevent form for each employee.
(g) In the event of a permanent transfer of an employee from one operation to another operation the provisions of
clause 6(d) of the Collective Agreement will apply.
(h) In effecting Transfers from one department to another.
(i) The employee who is the most junior on the particular operation will be transferred irrespective of his
service in the Company.
(ii) Notwithstanding (a) above where an employee to be transferred on the guidlines set out in (a) above has a
minimum of twenty-five years service in the same department, though not on the same job, he will not be
transferred and will be offered anyone of the jobs he performed previously and the most junior person will
be transferred instead.
(iii) Where due to the elimination of an operation an employee with a minimum of twenty five years of service
in the same department is to be transferred , he will be given an alternative operation in the same department
after a training programme of four weeks, with an average payment. If after the training programme he is
found unsuitable, he will be transferred elsewhere he can be provided with work.
23. Leave on Occasion of Death of Employee or Family Member :–
(a) In the event of the death of an employee in service, Company will donate LKR 110,000/-.
(b) In the event of the death of a confirmed employee in service, leave will be granted in the following manner for
attendance at the funeral of such deceased employee.
(i) Provided the distance to the place of the funeral is such that attendance at the funeral will require less than
four hours, leave from work for a period not less than four hours will be granted to :
(a) Employee in the general shift in the department in which the deceased employee worked.
(b) An employee from each department
(c) Three branch union officials, and
(d) An officer from Death Relief Society
To attend such funeral without loss of pay provided however that if employees other than those specifically
Identified  above also attend the funeral during working hours such employees shall cover up for the work
time lost on this account on another day within a week without any claim for additional payment by way
of overtime or otherwise.
(ii) In the event of the place of the funeral being such that a period in excess of four hours is required for
attendance, the Company will grant not less than nine hours of leave subject to the same conditions as
given in (i) above.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
11A
(iii) The question of distance of the place of a funeral will be decided by mutual Agreement between the
Management and the Branch Union.
(c) Transport Facility - Company agrees to grant LKR 10,000/- as transport facility.
(d) In the event of a death of a family member of a confirmed employee, the employee of the department in which
such employee is employed will be granted leave for a period depending on the distance of the place of the
funeral but in any event not exceeding four hours which leave, such employees shall cover up by working in
lieu without payment  of overtime, on another day within a period of one week.
(e) For the purpose of (d) above, family member shall mean spouse, child, father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-
law and unmarried brothers and sisters under eighteen years of age.
Employees' Wedding :–
1. 1/2 day leave will be granted to the respective department and employees. Such employee shall cover up for the work
time  loss on this account on any Saturday within two weeks without any claim for additional payment by way of
overtime or otherwise.
PART II
CONTAINING  THE FACILITIES & CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE COMPANY TO THE UNION
24.  Union Meetings :–
1. The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Branch  Union:
(a) In respect of each meeting  which the Branch Union desired to hold at the Company's premises an application
for permission shall be previously made to the Company at least 24 hours prior to the date of the meeting.
(b) If the Company decides to grant permission, the Company shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more
of the undernoted conditions.
(i) That no person other than an employee of the Company shall be present at a meeting of the Branch Union.
(ii) On occasions when parent union officials are granted written permission to attend a branch union  meeting,
the Branch Union shall obtain the written approval of the Company, for such official or officials who is or
are to attend the meeting and shall furnish his name or names, address or addresses and the official capacity
or capacities or such person or persons in the parent union.
(iii) On occasions, such as the annual general meeting of the Branch Union office bearers of the parent union
may with previous approval of the Company shall attend.
(iv) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Branch Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its Office bearers to ensure that the terms  on which permission to
hold a meeting of the Branch Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It  shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course
of or in connection with a meeting of the Branch Union to the Company’s property or any person at the
Company’s premises  and the Union shall indemnify the Company and keep the Company indemnified
against any such damage.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
2. The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Executive Committee of the Union:
(a) Without prejudice to the right of the Company to refuse to grant permission if in its discretion the exigencies
of the circumstances warrants permission or if in its discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrants
refusal, the Company will generally grant permission to three members of the Executive Committee, a day's
leave for not more than one occasion, in a month without loss of salary for such absence if an application for
permission to attend is made at least forty eight hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting of the
executive committee.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) above, the Union shall forthwith furnish the Company with a list of the
employees covered and bound by the Agreement who are members of the Executive Committee and keep the
Company informed of all changes therein which may be made from time to time. Subject to the amendments
contained in this Agreement, the order of provisions contained in the original collective agreement shall
continue to be in force.
25.  Duty Leave :– Without prejudice to the right of the Company to refuse to grant permission if in its discretion the
exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Company will generally grant permission for not more than three Office
Bearers of  the Branch Union :-
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Company or the Employer’s Federation of
Ceylon or the Department of Labour, in connection with a dispute between the Branch Union and the
Company,  or
(b) To attend before Industrial Courts or Arbitrators at the sole discretion of the Company.
In respect of such absence office bearers shall receive their minimum basic wage.
26. Domestic Inquiries :–
(i) An employee in respect of whom a domestic inquiry is held in respect of charges framed against him shall be
entitled to request that a member of the Union be present as an observer at the domestic inquiry.
(ii) The employee shall, at least 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry, submit
to the Company the name of such observer, and the Company shall allow an observer unless in the opinion of
the Company the exigencies of business warrant refusal.
(iii) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an
Observer shall not be  entitled to represent the employee or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(iv) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an observer who obstructs such inquiry in any
manner whatsoever to withdraw there from an observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(v) The absence of an Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate
such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
27.  Check Off :–
(i) During the continuance in force of this Collective Agreement and provided the Union has not less than 40
percent membership among the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, the Company shall on the
written request of an employee deduct every month from the wages due to such emloyees the current Union
dues as specified by the employees to be payable by the employee to the Union and remit the amount so
deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon the subject to the conditions hereinafter
setforth.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
13A
(ii) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his earnings shall sign a statement to that
effect in the form set out in form No. 1 in Schedule F hereto and hereinafter referred to as "an authorization".
(iii) Every employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement for check-off at any time by signing a statement
to that effect in the form set out in form No. 2. In Schedule F hereto and hereinafter referred to as "a revocation".
(iv) As far as practicable deductions under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after
the date of receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter untill the authorization is cancelled by
a revocation.
(v) As far as practicable deductions under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation
cancelling such authorization provided however.
(a) That the Company shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union of the employee concerned
for failure to comply with sub-clause (iv) or (v).
(b) That in its discretion the Company shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off for any
period in which the deductions by way of check-off together with all other deductions from the employee's
wages exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(vi) The Company shall not later than the fifteenth day of the month succeeding the month in which deductions
have been made remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the employees to the Treasurer of the Union
in accordance with the tenor of such authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed
"Account Payee".
(vii) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope
addressed to the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(viii) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(ix) The Company shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other
than the Union dues actually deducted.
28.  Breaches of the Agreement by the Union and/or its Members :–
If in the opinion of the Employer's Federation of Ceylon the Union or its members have committed a breach of this
Agreement then in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions
granted by the Company in Part II of the Agreement and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the
Company's right to restore such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Company and the
Employer's Federation of Ceylon may decide.
29.  Cessation of Facilities :–
The facilities and concessions in Part II of this Agreement shall ipso facto cease on the termination of this Agreement.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITION OF CERTAIN WORDS
In part I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject of context the following words shall have the meaning set
opposite to them.
WORDS MEANING
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya in the Company.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the Industrial Disputes Act,
(1950) as amended or in any act enacted by the National State Assembly to replace the
Industrial Disputes Act subject to the provision that it shall not include a dispute
involving the variation of this Collective Agreement or one which is in breach of it.
Union The Wanija Ha K armika Sewaka Sangamaya.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine. Words importing the
singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
15A


<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019


<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
17A


<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019


<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
19A


<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
21A


<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019


<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
23A


<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019


<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
25A


<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
SCHEDULE - DD
STEPS  FOR  WAGES  STRUCTURE  FOR  ENGINEERING  DEPT.
1. An unskilled worker seeking a promotion to the semiskilled grade should have served a minimum of 5 years in the
unskilled grade and have during this period attended a practical course of training in one of the Technical Colleges and
his basic grade course duration should be a minimum of 6 months (part time). Further he should satisfy that he has
gathered sufficient knowledge.
Or
A person has to stay a Minimum of 10 years in unskilled grade and prove to the satisfaction of his supervisors of his
capabilities for promotion from unskilled to semiskilled.
2. A Semiskilled worker seeking  a promotion, should have worked a minimum of 07 years as a semiskilled worker and satisfy
his superiors his capabilities handling skilled work.
Further he should have suitable technical qualifications covering his Trade obtained from a Technical College and
should be conversant in reading manuals, catalogues, etc., in his trade.
3. Trade learners and Apprentices should have followed a full time course in their respective field for a period not less than
3 years. After a period of one year they will be entitled to go to a semiskilled grade provided they satisfy their superior
of their capabilities.
SCHEDULE - E
The Company shall pay to each of the standard production wages rated employee covered and bound by this Agreement an
annual long service award commencing in December 1991 and thereafter in December of each succeeding year during the
continuance in force of this Agreement. Provided, however, that such Long Service Award shall not be payable to any
employee who has not completed a full calendar years' service. The Long Service Award shall be paid in accordance with the
scales set out below and such award shall be deemed to be part of wages only for the purpose of computing the bonus referred
to in Clause 13 of this Agreement and Provident fund Contributions.
YEARS  OF  SERVICE LONG  SERVICE  AWARD
1 - 5 years LKR- 625/-
6 - 10 years LKR 725/-
11 - 15 years LKR 975/-
16 - 20 years LKR 1,175/-
21 - 25 years LKR 1,400/-
26 years and above LKR 1,800/-
Memorandum of  Settlement
Entered into under the
Provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, No. 1950 (as amended)
Between
Bata shoe Company of Ceylon Limited
(Hereinafter referred to as "The Company")
And
The Commercial & Industrial Workers Union
Hereinafter referred to as "The Union"

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
27A
The matters set out in the list of demands annexed to the Union's letter to the Company dated 28th September 2017 are all
deemed to be settled in terms of the collective agreement entered into between the parties on 4th June 2018 and as per this
memorandum of settlement. A copy of the Union demands annexed to the letter dated 28th September, 2017  is annexed hereto
as Annexure I.
(1) WAGES  SCALE
(I) The company agrees to revise the scale of  wage  of the respective categories of employees as set out herein under
and accordingly; the wages of employees will be increased as follows:
(a) 1000 points of NRCOLG (1000 x LKR.2/-) equal to LKR 2000/- will be added to the present basic salary and will
be increase by a some equal to Eight present (8%) of the wages applicable from 1st January  2018 to 31st
December 2018. (1st year).
(b) An increase by a sum equal to Eight percent (8%) of the wages applicable from  1st January, 2019 to 31st
December, 2019. (2nd Year)
(c) 250 points of  NRCOLG (250 x 2/-) equal to LKR 500/- will be added to the basic salary of 2019 December and
increase  by a sum equal to Eight percent (8%) of the wages applicable as at 1st January 2020 to 31st December
2020.(3rd  year)
(II) All fixed waged employees' annual salary increments grades should be upgraded by 3 times according to their
grades.
The Union's proposal cannot be consodered, present practice will be continued.
(III) Current monthly NRCOLG payment to be incorporated to the basic salary.
Agreed that 1250 points (LKR 2,500) of the NRCOLG will be added to the basic salary as follows.
1st year points 1000 (LKR 2,000)
3rd year points 250 (LKR 500)
(IV) All government declared increments for the private sector employees to be added to the salary without any conditions.
Union demand cannot be considered. Comply only as per the Government Circular
(V) Service award to be increased by 50%
Increased as per the schedule - E
2 NRCOLG  PAYMENT
(1) Government approved NRCOLOG payments to be paid with the arrears.
Union demand cannot be considered. However, the company agreed to discuss this matter further within four
months of time upon singing the Collective Agreement.
3 BONUS
1. The current bonus of one and half months (1 & 1/2) to be increased to three (3) months.
Present practice will be continued.
4 ENSURE  TO  PAY  THE  MAXIMUM  WAGES  OF  THE  GRADE  DURING  TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be continued.
5 SPECIAL  ATTENDENCE  ALLOW ANCE  OF  LKR 3,000/- TO  BE  PAID  FOR  A  MONTH
The Union demand cannot be considered.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
6 SHIFT  ALLOWANCE
1. 2nd shift allowance to be increased by 12.5% to 30%
2. 3rd shift allowance to be increased by 15% to 40%
2nd Shift allowance will be increased as follows:
1st year 17.5%
2nd year 17.5%
3rd year 20%
7) IF  THE SHIFT WORKERS  ACHIEVE  THE  PRODUCTION  TARGET  FOR  FIVE  HOURS (SATURDAY), THEN
THE  MAXIMUM  WAGES TO BE PAID
The company agreed to pay maximum wages as per the target output achieved for 5 hours approved by the Costing
Department.
8) PROVIDE  BREAKFAST  FOR  ALL  WORKERS
Company agreed to provide breakfast for the workers for the workers who work on the 1st shift (6am - 2pm). The
breakfast menu will be decided by the company.
9) THE  ANNUAL  LEA VE  ENTITLEMENT  OF  THE  RETIRING  YEAR TO BE  REIMBURSED
Agreed, Calendared annual leave will not be applicable during the year of retirement. They have to apply own leave to
avoid no pay deductions.
10) WITH  REGARD TO THE CASUAL  LEA VE  CLAUSE  No. 8  OF  THE CURRENT UNION AGREEMENT TO BE
REMOVED.
The union demand cannot be considered. Present practise will be continued.
11) GRANT 3  HOURS  FOR  SHORT  LEA VE  PER  MONTH
Emergency leave will be granted only for urgent matters without hindrance to work. Present practice will be continued.
12) INSURENCE  COVER
1. Increase OPD cover from LKR 6000/- to LKR 12,000/-
The Union proposal cannot be considered. Present practice will be continued.
II. Hospitalization cover to be increased from LKR 80,000/- to LKR 150,000/-
Amount will be increased as follows:
1st  year  LKR 90,000/-
2nd  year   LKR 100,000
claims will be subject to the Terms and conditions of the Insurence policy.
III.  The Insurence coverage to be extended to family members.
The Union proposal cannot be considered. Present practice will be continued.
13. IF  ACCIDENT  LEAVE  EXCEEDS  3 DAYS,  PAID  LEA VE  TO  BE  GIVEN  FOR  ADDITIONAL  DAYS
If an employee provides A medical certificate  from the Government Hospital for additional days, following  will be
considered.
Advance the minimum wages for additional days.
Company will bear the difference if the insurance reimbursement does not meet the patient's minimum days wage.
14 BIRTHDAY  GIFT  VOUCHERS TO  BE  INCREASED TO LKR 2,000
Amount will be increased to LKR. 1,250/-
..

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
29A
15 TO  PROVIDE  TRANSPORT  TO WORKERS  WORKING  UP TO 10 PM
The Union demand cannot be considered, shift Allowance increased by considering the above factor.
16 PROVIDE  ALL  EMPLOYEES  A  PAIR OF SHOE AND SET OF UNIFORM
One set of apron and a pair of shoes per person will be given per year. The type of shoes will be decided by the company.
(Condition will be applied.)
17 A  PAIR  OF  SHOES TO BE GIVEN TO CHILDREN OF  EMPLOYEES SCHOOL CHILDREN
The Union demand cannot be considered.
18 DISCOUNT  OF  THE  SHOE  PURCHASE  CARD  TO  BE  INCREASED  FROM  20%  TO  30%  AND  THE  V ALUE
TO  BE  INCREASED TO  LKR 30,000/-
The Union demand cannot be considered. Present  practice will be continued.
19 SPECTSCLES  REIMBURSEMENT  TO  BE  INCREASED  TO LKR 2,500/-
Amount will only be increased to LKR 1,500, once in two years,
20 TO ABSORB  ALL  MANPOWER  EMPLOYEES TO THE PERMANENT CARDER
The Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be continued.
21 RETIREMENT  AGE  OF  LADIES  SHOULD  BE  EXTENDED   TO 55  YEARS
The Union demand cannot be considered. Present practice will be continued.
22 EMPLOYEES  WHO WORKS  DURING  ANNUAL  V ACATION  SHOULD  BE GIVEN  TRANSPORT  ALLOWANCE
OF LKR 200
Amount will be increased to LKR 125
23 BELOW  FACILITIES/ALLOWANCES  ENJOYED  BY EMPLOYEES  HAS TO BE  INCREASED BY 50%
25 years long service award-Increased As follows.
Amount will be increased to LKR 30,000 for the employees who have completed 25 years if service and will  be paid
as follows.
LKR 20,000 in cash and LKR 10,000 worth of Bata Gift V ouchers
This will  be paid for those who are  in the Service by the time of the Collective Agreement is signed.
Scholarship - Increased as follows.
Grade V  Scholarships
The Company will grant  Scholarship Award of  LKR 10,000/- per child for 15 children of the employees who have
qulified at the Scholarship examination. In the event of there being more than 15 such children, the company will
select the best 15 based on their marks obtained.
Scholarships - University Entrance - Increased as follows.
The Company will grant  Scholarship of  LKR 15,000/- per child for 10 children of the employees who have  qualified
for university entrance. In the event of there being more than 10 such children, arrangements will be made with  the
University to choose the 10 most meritorious. The amount shall be same for the entire University stay of each
student.
Picnic
Amount will be increased to LKR 100,000
.
.
.

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'05'16
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2019
Retirement Gift
Amount will be increased to LKR 10,000
Death Donation
Amount will be increased to LKR 110,000
Soap
Present practice will be continued.
The  Matters set  out  in  the list of  Demands  to the Union  by the Compay  by  its  letter  dated  19th  October 2017.
1. To deploy Union Leaders in the production process
One Union Leader will be available full time for Union requirements and the balance 2 will be involved in the
production process.
If the union leaders belong to Piece Rate work category will continue to get the weekly allowance of LKR. 1,000
each and if  he belongs to monthly Fixed or weekly fixed payment category he will be entitle LKR. 1,000  per
month.
If the Union discussions exceeds over 2 hours, then the concerned Union Leader’s earnings will depend on the
department’s performace of the day.
If one Union Leaderr is deployed in the main operation, then he should be placed in a position which will  not
have an adverse efffect on the production due to his time spent on union work.The Union Leader could be
transferred within the same deapartment if a vacancy exisits and if not he will be transferred to any other
department, but will have his attendence marked in the original department.
If in case more than one union leader is appointed from a deapartment,then  one has to be  transferred  to
another department. However, his attendance will be marked in the original department while his earnings/
benifits will be as per his output in the transferred department. The other union leader will remain in the  same
department in a position which will not affect the production output adversely due to attending to Union
matters.
Subsequently upon completing his term, he will revert to his original department.
All agreed terms will be effective after the Collective Agreement is signed except the salary increase which will be effective from
1st January 2018.
05 - 870
.
.
.
.
..
.
.
.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
05 - 870