

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2375
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"133 – 2019 cQ,s ui 19 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'07'19
No. 2,133  –  fRiday ,  July 19, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th august, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th July, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2373 - B 81543- 5,403 (07/2019)
Note.–    (i) abolition of death Penalty Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 12, 2019.
 (ii) Prescription (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 12, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2374
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2375
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
DISASTER mANAGEmENT AND RuRAL 
ECONOmICS AffAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service - 2018 (2019)
aPPlicatioNS are hereby called from the qualified 
citizens of Sri lanka for the open competitive examination 
for recruitment to the posts in Grade iii of Sri lanka 
administrative Service.
this examination shall be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in November 2019 in colombo 
district subjected to the orders of Public Service 
commission. the Secretary reserves the power to postpone 
or cancel this examination subjected to the instructions of 
Public Service commission.
1. in this Notice "Secretary" shall mean the “Secretary 
to the Ministry in - charge of the subject of Public 
administration”. "Service" shall mean the “Sri lanka 
Administrative Service” at the instances not specified in 
other way.
2. the appointments through this examination shall be 
made to Grade iii of Sri lanka administrative Service.
(a) the closing date for applications will be                           
19th august of 2019.
Note: the complains made on the loss or delay of 
applications and other connected letters in the 
post will not be considered. the damages caused 
due to delay in the part of applicant until the 
closing date shall be borne by the applicant.
Written examination.– the Examination shall consist of 
the following five (05) question papers.
 i. General intelligence
 ii. Social, Economic, Political background and trends 
in Sri lanka
 iii. Global trends
 iV . aptitude for Management
 V .  creative, analytical and communication skills
Interview.– a general and structured interview shall be 
held for the candidates who sat for all the papers in the 
written examination and obtained a higher aggregate of 
marks as determined by 
 the Public Service commission as 
sufficient. The date of the interview shall be determined by 
the Secretary as per the instructions of the Public Service 
commission.
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 203. at the 
instances where there are candidates, who have secured 
equal marks for the final vacancy or final few vacancies, 
above the number of vacancies, the decision of filling such 
vacancies shall be taken by the Public Service commission 
as per Section 80 of Procedural Rules. the effective date 
of the appointment shall be determined on the order of the 
Public Services commission.
4. Conditions of Service :-
4.1 a selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade 
iii of the Service on the general conditions 
governing appointments in the Public Service and 
on the terms and conditions set out in the Minute 
of Sri lanka administrative Service, published 
in the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No. 1842/2 of 
23.12.2013, and subject to any amendments made 
or to be made hereafter to the Minute, provisions 
of the Establishments code and financial 
Regulations and Procedural Rules of Public 
Service commission published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009.
4.2 this post is permanent and pensionable. you shall 
be subjected to a policy decision which should be 
taken by the government in future on the pension 
scheme to which you are entitled. further, you 
shall make contributions to the Widows and 
orphans’/Widowers and orphans Pension 
Scheme. you shall make your contributions in 
such manner determined from time to time by the 
government. you shall be subjected to the policy 
decision that will be made by the government in 
future with regard to the pension scheme entitled 
to the post.
4.3 appointment is subject to 3 years probation period. 
First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed 
within 03 years from the date of recruitment to 
Grade iii of Sri lanka administrative Service as 
mentioned in the service minute.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2376
4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall 
be obtained within 05 years of joining the 
service as per Public administration circular 
01/2014 and consequent circulars.
4.5 Public Service commission reserves the power 
to cancel the appointment of any candidate  
who fails to assume duties of the appointed post 
on due date and/or rejects or avoids serving 
in an area where he/she is appointed.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale relevant to 
this post as per Schedule i of Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 47,615-10x1,335 -                                                                                                                                              
8  x1,630 - 17x2,170 -  Rs. 110,895/- (Sl-1-2016). your salaries 
are paid in accordance with the provisions of the said circular as 
mentioned in Schedule ii of the same. in addition, you 
are also entitled to the other allowances paid to the public 
officers by the government from time to time.
6. Qualifications for recruitment :- 
(a) (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka,
 (ii) Shall have a excellent moral character,
 (iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in 
any part of the island.
(b) Educational qualifications.– Shall have possessed 
a degree from a university recognized by the 
university   Grants  commission  or from  an   institution 
recognized by the university Grants commission as 
an institution for awarding degrees.
Note: applicants with a basic degree or post 
graduate degree may apply. the effective  
date of the degree should fall on or before 
the closing date on which the qualifications  
are satisfied. Postgraduate degree which 
considered as the basic qualification for 
qualification is not allowed to substitute for 
the promotion in the service.
(c) Age.– Shall not be less than twenty two (22) years 
and not more than thirty (30) years of age as at 
the closing date of applications. Persons, whose 
birthday falls on or before 1997.08.19 and on or 
after 1989.08.19 shall strictly be eligible to apply 
for this.
(d) Restrictions regarding qualifications :
 (i) No person is allowed to sit for the open 
competitive examination for more than 
two (2) sittings. (Number of sittings of 
the applicants at the examinations for 
recruitment to Grade iii of Sri lanka 
administrative Service under previous 
service minutes will not be considered).
 (ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination 
shall have been completed in every aspect on 
or before the closing date of applications.
 (iii) No person ordained in any religious sect shall 
be permitted to apply or sit for this competitive 
examination.
7. examination Fee.- the examination fee is                                  
Rs. 1,200. it should be paid before the closing date of 
applications at any Post Office/Sub Post office or District/
divisional secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head                 
20-03-02-13 of commissioner General of Examinations. 
the receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage 
of the application form. the fee is non-refundable and it 
shall not be paid back or transferred to pay any other 
examination fee, under any circumstances. it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt. Money orders 
or Stamps are not accepted for examination fees.
8. Method of Application :
(a) the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and should 
be prepared by the candidate himself on paper of 
size 8 1/2" x 12" (a-4) using both sides. it should 
be specially noted that the application forms should 
be prepared that cages 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the 
first side of the paper and cages 3.0 to 7.0 appear 
on the other side of the paper. applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and that are not 
completed in every aspect shall be rejected without 
notice. (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
application with candidate.) it is the responsibility 
of the candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/ her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice as 
otherwise the application may be rejected.
(b) the application should be in the language 
medium in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2377
(c) the completed application form for the examination 
should be sent by registered post to reach the
“Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization (Establishment & foreign 
Examinations) branch,
Department of Examinations - Sri Lanka,
Po.box. 1503,
Colombo”
 on or before 19
th of august 2019. the words 
"open competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade iii the Sri lanka administrative Service 
- 2018(2019)" should be clearly indicated on the 
top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application. any application received after the 
closing date shall not be accepted. it is essential 
to mention the name of examination in English 
language as well, in applications prepared in both 
Sinhala and tamil mediums.
(d) candidate's signature in the application form should 
have been attested by a Principal of a Government 
School, a Justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, 
attorney-at-law, Notary Public, commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces, an Officer holding 
a gazetted post in the Police Service or an Staff 
Officer holding a permanent post in public 
service whose annual initial salary is more than                               
Rs. 240,360.
(e) any application, which is not complete in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in post shall 
be considered.
(f) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. 
a notice shall be published in the newspapers and the 
official website by the Department of Examinations 
as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 
or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. When 
informing, the name of the examination applied 
for, full name, address and the Nic number of the 
candidate shall be indicated. it would be advisable 
for candidates outside colombo to fax a letter of 
request along with a fax number of the candidate 
to the department of Examinations through the fax 
number mentioned in the notification for sending 
a copy of the admission. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the application, copy of 
the receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
and the receipt of registration of the application to 
prove any information requested by the department 
of Examinations.
9. Admission to the examination :-
(a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all persons who 
have correctly perfected their applications. any 
candidate who fails to produce his admission card 
will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) candidates must sit the examination according to 
the index number at the examination hall assigned 
to him. Every candidate should get his admission 
card attested in advance and surrender it to the 
supervisor of the hall on the first day he presents 
himself for the examination. a set of rules to be 
observed by all candidates is published at the 
beginning in this Gazette. candidates shall be 
bound by the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and they are liable to 
a punishment imposed by him for breach of these 
rules.
Note:- the issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate does not mean that he or she has 
fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the 
examination.
10. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate shall be required 
to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject he offers. for this purpose, 
any of the following documents shall be accepted:-
(a) National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons
(b) a valid passport
(c) a valid driving license
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is 
liable to be canceled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished 
information with knowledge that they are false, or if he / she 
has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she shall be 
liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations shall 
be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the 
instructions given by the Public Service commission.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2378
13. Scheme of examination and Medium of examination :
(a) the Examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil and English.
(b) the language medium of examination shall be considered as the language medium in which the appointment is 
made.
Note:
 (i) a candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
 (ii) a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the 
application. 
14. Method of recruitment :-
14.1  Written examination :
 A written examination of five (05) question papers including the following subjects shall be held. Subjects and 
the minimum marks that shall be obtained for each subject are as follows.
Subject Marks Minimum marks that shall 
be obtained for a pass
l General intelligence 100 50
2 Social, Economic, Political background and trends in Sri lanka 100 50
3 Global trends 100 50
4 aptitude for Management 100 50
5 creative, analytical and communication skills 100 50
candidates should sit all the question papers.
14.2  General and structured interview :
 
 (i)  interview shall consist of two parts namely; general interviews and structured interviews.
  
(a) General interview :
 (i) The general interview shall held to verify whether the candidate has satisfied qualifications for recruitment 
mentioned in No. 06 above and whether such qualifications fall within the prescriptions made in the same.
 (ii) the general interview board is appointed by the Public Service commission.
(b)  Structured interview :
 (i) a structured interview shall be conducted by an interview board appointed by the Public Service commission 
to measure the management skills, leadership qualities, communication skills and personality of the 
candidates. the methodology used in this regard shall be prepared by the Secretary of Public administration 
on the concurrence of the commission. the maximum marks that can be obtained at the interview is twenty 
five (25).
Subject Area Maximum Marks
01 Management Skills 10
02 leadership Qualities 05
03 communications Skills 05
04 Personality 05
total 25

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2379
  (ii) out of the candidates who have scored a 
minimum of fifty (50%) marks or above in 
each subject, those who score the highest 
marks in the aggregate for all the subjects 
will qualify to appear for the general 
interview. Out of the candidates qualified, 
only a number equivalent to the total number 
of those expected to be recruited according to 
the vacancies expected to be filled and a 25% 
of the number of vacancies expected will be 
called for the general interview. if the number 
of qualified applicants does not amount to the 
number mentioned above, only such numbers 
of candidates who are so qualified will be 
called for the general interview.
 (iii) General interview shall be conducted before 
the structured interview for verification of 
qualification and marks shall not be allocated 
at the general interview. candidates who are 
proved to have possessed all the qualifications 
for recruitment at the general interview shall 
become eligible for calling for structured 
interview. if a certain number of candidates 
called for general interview are not qualified 
for calling for structured interview, no other 
candidates shall be called for the general 
interview in place of disqualified candidates.
 (iv) appointments shall be made to Grade three 
(iii) according to merits beginning from 
candidates who have scored highest marks 
as per the total marks obtained at the written 
examination and the structured interview 
by the number of candidates expected to be 
appointed according to the existing vacancies.
N. B.- opportunity given to a candidate for 
appearing for the interview does not 
necessarily mean that the candidate has 
possessed qualifications to be awarded 
an appointment
14.3 the results shall be communicated to the 
applicants personally by the commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or by the web 
site www.results.exams.gov.lk
15. Syllabus of the written examination :-
 
(01)  General Intelligence :
 it is expected to assess the capacity of 
the candidate in analytical skills, logical 
comprehension, interpretative ability, ability in 
application to other situations and arriving and 
conclusions in response to problems presented 
to the candidate in relation to numerical, lingual, 
and figurative structures and inter-relations
 (duration 1 hours - 100 marks. this paper 
consists of multiple choice questions with 4 
choices)
(02) Social, economic, Political background and 
trends in Sri Lanka :
 it is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge 
of the social, economic, political, cultural, 
scientific and technological conditions in 
Sri lanka or his ability to think creatively 
analytically and critically and the ability to 
decide priority and strategic projection in 
response to situation presented to him.
 (duration 2 hours - 100 marks. this paper 
consists of multiple choice questions with 4 
choices and structured questions of essays)
(03)  Global trends :
 it is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge 
of the global economy, political, cultural, 
scientific and technological technological 
conditions or his ability to think creatively 
analytically and critically and the ability to 
decide priority and strategic projection in 
response to situation presented to him. 
(duration 2 hours - 100 marks. this paper 
consists of multiple choice questions with 4 
choices and structured questions of essays)
(04)  Managerial aptitude :
 it is expected to test the candidate’s skills in 
identifying problems and their reasons, decisions 
making, maintaining interpersonal relationships 
and communicative ability, formulation of self 
disciplinary policies and strategies, and innate 
wisdom etc. in response to situation presented 
to him.
 (duration 2 hours - 100 marks. this paper 
consists of multiple choice questions with 
4 choices, short questions and structured 
questions of essays)
(05) Creative, Analytical and Communicative Skills:
 it is expected to test the candidate’s ability 
of reasoning and imagination in relation 
to the analyzing, collating and presenting 
of information on a topics/themes, and the 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2380
ability to comprehend a complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and express the salient ideas 
thereof'concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate's own words.
 (duration 3 hours - 100 marks. this paper consists of essay/ semi structured essay type questions)
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala notification 
shall prevail.
on the order of the Public Service commission. 
 
 J.J. RathnasiRi,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management and 
 Rural Economic affairs.
05th July of 2019.
SPEciMEN foRM of aPPlicatioN
(for office use only)
Open COmpetitive examinatiOn fOR ReCRuitment tO gRade iii Of the sRi Lanka administRative seRviCe - 2018(2019)
1.0 Medium :
1.1 Language medium of             
examination 
             Sinhala    - 2
             tamil       - 3
             English    - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the 
cage)
1.2 Town and Town No. in which you intend to sit the examination
colombo town 01 dehiwala 08
Kotte 02 Moratuwa 09
Rajagiriya 03 Piliyandala 10
Nugegoda 04 Kaduwela 11
Maharagama 05
Homagama 06
avissawella 07
(indicate the relevant town and town No. in cage. it will not be allowed to 
change this subsequently)
2.0 Personal Information :
 2.1  Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  e.g. : HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa
 2.2  Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  e.g. GuNaWaRdHaNa H.M.S.K 
 2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.4 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) (admission card will be posted to this address)
 2.5 Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :-
 2.6 Sex : Male  - 0
    female  - 1  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 2.7 civil status : unmarried  - 1
     Married  - 2 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 2.8 Ethnic group :
  (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3,  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  Muslim - 4, other - 5)
 2.9 National identity card No. :
 2.10 date of birth : y ear : Month : date :
  town      town No. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2381
 2.11 Age as at 19.08.2019 which is the date of fulfilling qualification :  Years :              Months :             Days :
 2.12  telephone No. : 
  Mobile :                fixed :
3.0 (i) date of graduation :––––––––––––.
 (ii) university/ institute  :––––––––––––.
 (iii) Registration number  :––––––––––––. 
 (iv) internal/External  :––––––––––––. 
 (v) degree  :––––––––––––.
 (vi) Subjects  :––––––––––––.
 (vii) class  :––––––––––––.
  upper/lower  :––––––––––––. 
 (viii)  Effective date  :––––––––––––.
 (ix)  language medium of Examination  :––––––––––––.
4.0  Mention the years if you have sat for the examinations held before for recruitment to Sri lanka administrative Service :
Number of sittings at the examinations after 01.07.2012 
under the Minute of Sri lanka administrative 
Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No: 1842/2 
dated 23.12.2013 (currently Effective)
Name of The Exam Appeared/ Did not appear
2013(2015) open
2014(2016) open
2015(2016) Stage ii open
5. 0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
(Paste one edge of the receipt here securely)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate)
6.0  Certification of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed 
the receipt No. ..................  dated ...................... being the payment of the examination fee. i also agree to be bound by the 
rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the 
examination, if it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination. further, i agree to be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner - General of Examinations on conducting the examination and 
issuing results.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
 
7.0  attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 8 (d) of the Gazette Notification):
i hereby certify that ................................. (full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, that 
he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ..............................
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2382
8.0 Certificate of the head of the department (only for the 
applicants in public service /provincial public service /
statutory institution) :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................
who is submitting this application is serving in this 
department as ................................................... and his / her 
application is forwarded with my recommendation as per 
regulations stipulated in the this Gazette notification. He/she 
could be released from his/her present post, if selected for 
the position.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of department/  
 Authorized Officers.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
07–716
––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
DISASTER mANAGEmENT AND RuRAL 
ECONOmICS DEvELOPmENT
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service-2018 (2019)
aPPlicatioNS are hereby called from qualified Sri 
lankan citizens for limited competitive Examination 
for recruitment to the Posts of Grade iii of Sri lanka 
administrative Service. 
this examina tion shall be held by the commissioner 
General of Examination in the month of November in 
colombo district subjected to the order of Public Service 
commission. the Secretary reserves the power to postpone 
or cancel this examination subjected to the instructions of 
Public Service commission.
1. In this notification the terms  :
(a) "Secretary" means the “Secretary to the Ministry          
in - charge of the subject of Public administration’’.
(b) "Service" shall mean the "Sri lanka administrative 
Service" at the instances not specified in other way.
2. Recruitment to Grade iii of Sri lanka administrative 
Service is made by this examination 
(a) the closing date for applications will be 19th 
august of 2019.
Written examination.– this examination will consist of 
following four (04) question papers :
(1) General intelligence,
(2) Social, Economic, Political Background of Sri 
lanka and Global trends,
(3) case study relating to Public administration i 
(Relevant to Establishments code, Procedural 
Rules of Public Services commission and financial 
regulations),
(4) case study relating to Public administration ii 
(Relevant to the evaluation of creative, analytical 
and communication skills).
 
Interview: General and structured interview will be held 
for the candidates who have appeared for all the papers 
of the written examination and secured a sufficiently high 
aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service 
commission. the date of the interviews shall be determined 
by Secretary.
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 54. at the 
instances where there are candidates, who have secured 
equal marks for the final vacancy or final few vacancies, 
above the number of vacancies, the decision of filling such 
vacancies shall be taken by the Public Service commission 
as per Section 80 of Procedural Rules. the effective date 
of the appointment shall be determined on the order of the 
Public Services commission. 
 
4. Service Conditions :
4.1 a  selected candidate will be appointed to Grade 
iii of Sri lanka administrative Service subject to 
general conditions governing the appointments in 
the Public Service and on the terms and conditions 
set out in the Minute of Sri lanka administrative 
Service published ,in the Gazette Extraordinary 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
lanka No: 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013 and to 
any amendments made or to be made to the 
Minute hereinafter, financial Regulations in the 
Establishments code and Procedural Rules of 
Public Service commission published in Gazette 
Extraordinary of the democratic Republic of Sri 
lanka No 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2383
4.2 this post is permanent and pensionable. Shall 
contribute to the widows’ and orphans’ pension 
scheme/widowers’ and orphans’ pension scheme.
4.3 appointment is subject to an acting Period of one 
year. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be 
passed within 03 years from the date of recruitment 
to Grade iii of Sri lanka administrative Service as 
mentioned in the service minute.
4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service as 
per Public administration circular 01/2014 and 
consequent circulars.
4.5 Public Service commission reserves the power to 
cancel the appointment of any candidate who fails 
to assume duties of the appointed post on due date 
and/or rejects or avoids serving in an area where 
he/she is appointed.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale relevant 
to this post as per Schedule i of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 47,615 - 
10x1,335 - 8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - 110,895 - (Sl-1- 2016). 
your salaries are paid in accordance with the provisions of 
the said circular as mentioned in Schedule ii of the same. in 
addition, you are also entitled to the other allowances paid 
to the public officers by the Government from time to time.
6. eligibility for Recruitment :
(a) (i)  Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka
 (ii) Shall be of excellent character
 (ii) Shall be of an excellent moral character and 
physical fitness to serve at any part of the island
(b)  Educational Qualifications and Experience
 (i) Shall have obtained a degree from a university 
or a degree awarding institution recognized by 
the university Grants commission
  and
  Be an officer in the Public service or in a 
Provincial Public Service in a permanent and 
pensionable service/post receiving a salary 
under salary code No. MN-2-2016 or a higher 
MN Salary code number or under an Sl-1-2016 
salary code Number in Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 who has completed a 
minimum active and satisfactory period of 
service of five (05) years in any service/post 
  or
 (ii) Be an officer in the Public service or in a 
Provincial Public Service in a permanent and 
pensionable service/post receiving a salary 
under salary code No. MN-2-2016 or a 
higher MN Salary code number or under 
an Sl-1-2016 salary code Number in Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 who has 
completed a minimum active and satisfactory 
period of service of ten (10) years in any 
service/post.
Note:
 1. applicants with a basic degree or post graduate 
degree may apply. the post graduate degree 
qualification which considered as the basic 
qualification is not allowed to substitute for the 
promotion in the service.
 2. the effective date of the degree shall be a date 
on or before 01.07.2018
 3. the total of continuous periods of service in 
public service and/or provincial public service 
is considered when calculating the above 
mentioned period of service
(c)  Age and other qualifications to be satisfied :
 (i) Shall be not more than the age limit of fifty three 
years (53) as at 01.07.2018 Persons, whose have 
their birthday falls on or after 01.07.1965, shall 
strictly be eligible to apply for this.
 (ii) Shall have been confirmed in a service/ post 
mentioned in above 6 (b)
Note: Officers for whom the appointing authority has 
not issued the letter relevant to confirmation 
in service, but who have satisfied all the 
qualifications required to sit for the examination 
as per para. 06 of the examination notification 
and satisfied the qualifications relevant to 
confirmation in service as per the relevant 
service minute/scheme of recruitment  may also 
apply for this examination.
  However, the said officers,
 
 1. Shall have passed the Efficiency Bar examination 
relevant to the confirmation in service as at the 
date of verification of qualifications.
 2. If the said officers are eligible for the general 
interview after passing this examination, it is 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2384
compulsory to submit the letter of confirmation 
in service at the time of appearing for the 
interview. (The date of confirmation should 
be effective as at the date of verification of 
qualifications or before the said date.)
 (iii) Shall have not been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment within the immediately preceding 
05 years.
 (iv) Shall have earned all the due salary increments 
within the immediately preceding 05 years.
(d)  Restrictions for qualifications :
 (i) No candidate shall be permitted to sit for 
limited competitive Examination more than 
two (02) occasions. (Number of sittings at the 
examinations to recruit Grade iii of Sri lanka 
administrative Service under the previous 
service minute is not considered)
 (ii) The qualifications required to apply for this 
examination shall have been satisfied by 
01/07.2018 in full
 (iii) No person who is ordained in any religious order 
shall be allowed to sit for this examination.
7. examination Fees.– the fee for the examination will 
be Rs. 1200.00 this should be paid before the closing date of 
applications at any Post Office/ Sub Post Office or District/
divisional secretariat, under the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examination to be credited 
to the revenue of the government and the receipt obtained 
thus should be affixed firmly from the edge in the relevant 
cage of the application form. Money orders or Stamps are 
not accepted for examination fees. the fee is non-refundable 
and it shall not be paid back or transferred to pay any other 
examination fee, under any circumstances. it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
8. Method of applications :
 (a)  the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and should 
be prepared on paper of a4 size using both sides. 
It is to be specifically noted that the application 
should be prepared in such a way that headings 
No. 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the 1st page, 3.0 to 4.(ii) 
on the second page and the rest on the third page. 
an application prepared with computer/typed 
applications can also be used for this purpose. 
The application should be filled legibly by the 
candidate himself in his own handwriting and 
applications that do not comply with the specimen 
or that have not been completed properly will be 
rejected without notice. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application with the candidate. 
it is the responsibility of the candidate to verify 
that the perfected application complies with the 
specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, the 
application may be rejected.
 (b) the application should be prepared in the same 
language in which the candidate intends to 
sit the examination. it is required to indicate 
the name of the examination in English also in 
the applications prepared both in Sinhala and tamil 
media.
 (c) applications duly perfected by candidates 
should be sent through the respective Head of 
department to reach the following address 
before 19/08/2019 by Registered Post. the top 
left corner of the envelope containing the 
application should clearly bear the words "limited  
competitive Examination for recruitment to 
Grade iii of Sri lanka administrative Service- 
2018 (2019)”. application received after this date 
will be rejected. 
  the commissioner General of Examinations,
  organizations (Establishments and foreign
   Examinations) Branch,
  department of Examinations,
  P.o. Box-1503 colombo
 (d) the post and the service station where the applicant 
is serving at the time of applying for the examination 
is relevant for all the activities with regard to the 
examination and the changes occur after sending 
the applications are not considered.
 (e) applications that are not complete in every aspect 
will be rejected. complaints on applications getting 
lost or delayed will not be entertained. 
 (f) A notification will be published in newspapers 
and the official website by the Department of 
Examinations as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to candidates. if the admission card 
is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified 
in the advertisement. the name of the examination, 
full name of the applicant, address and identity 
card no should be mentioned when informing the 
department of Examinations. in case of applicants 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2385
outside colombo, it will be more effective to send 
a letter of request to the fax number mentioned in 
the said advertisement furnishing a fax number to 
which the admission card should be sent. further, 
it would be advisable to keep a copy of the 
application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment 
of examination fee and the receipt of registration of 
the application to prove any information requested 
by the department of Examinations.
9.  Admission to examination :
 (a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all persons who 
have correctly perfected their applications. any 
candidate who fails to produce his admission card 
will not be permitted to sit the examination.
 (b) candidates must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate 
should get his admission card attested in advance and 
surrender it to the supervisor of the hall on the first 
day he presents himself for the examination. a set of 
rules to be observed by all candidates is published 
at the beginning in this Gazette. candidates shall 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and they are liable to 
a punishment imposed by him for breach of these 
rules.
Note: issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate 
has satisfied the qualifications to sit for the 
examination.
10.  Identity of candidates.–a candidate will be required to 
prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject he offers. for this purpose, 
one of the following documents only, will be accepted.
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons
 (b) a  valid passport
 (c) a  valid driving license
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled at any state prior to, during or after the 
examination. if it is found that a candidate has purposely 
furnished false information or willfully suppressed any 
material fact, he or she will be liable for dismissal from the 
public service.
12. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall 
be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the 
instructions of the Public Service commission.
13. Scheme of examination and Language medium of 
examination :
 (a) the examination will be held in the language 
medium of Sinhala, tamil and English.
 (b) the language medium of examination shall be 
considered as the language medium in which the 
appointment is made.
Note :
 (i) a candidate should sit for all the papers of the 
examination in one and the same language.
 (ii) candidates will not be permitted to change the 
language medium indicated in the application form.
14. Method of Recruitment :
 14.1 Written examination.– a written examination 
consisting of following four subjects shall be 
conducted. the subjects and the minimum marks to 
be obtained from each subject are as follows:-
Subject Marks Minimum 
pass 
marks
1 General intelligence 100 50
2 Social, Economic and 
Political Background in 
Sri lanka and Global 
trends
100 50
3 case study relating to 
Public administration 
i ( Relevant to 
Establishments code, 
Procedural Rules 
of Public Services 
commission and 
financial regulations)
100 50
4 case study relating to 
Public administration ii 
(Relevant to the evaluation 
of creative, analytical and 
communication skills)
100 50
candidates shall sit for all question papers.
 14.2 General and Structured interview :
 (i) the interview consists of two parts i.e. General 
interview and Structured interview

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2386
(a) General Interview :
 (i) the general interview shall be conducted 
to ascertain whether the qualifications for 
recruitment stipulated in para 06 above have 
been fulfilled and whether the applicants  
conform to the restrictions on eligibility.
 (ii) the panel of the general interview board 
shall be appointed by the Public Service 
commission.
 (b)  Structured interview :
  the structured interview shall be held in line with 
the following procedure to measure the managerial 
skills, leadership qualities, communication skills 
and personality of candidates. the maximum marks 
that can be obtained at this interview is twenty five 
(25).
Subject Area Maximum Marks
01 Managerial Skills 10
02 leadership Qualities 05
03 communication Skills 05
04 Personality 05
total 25
 (ii) out of the candidates who have scored a minimum 
of fifty (50%) marks or above in each subject, those 
who score the highest marks in the aggregate for all 
the subjects will qualify to appear for the general 
interview. Out of the candidates qualified, only 
a number equivalent to the total number of those 
expected to be recruited according to the vacancies 
expected to be filled and a 25% of the number of 
vacancies expected will be cal led for the general 
interview. If the number of qualified applicants does 
not amount to the number mentioned above, only 
such numbers of candidates who are so qualified will 
be called for the general interview.
 (iii) the general interview shall be held prior to the 
structured interview to examine qualifications and no 
marks shall be allocated there. Applicants confirmed 
to have fulfilled all qualifica tions for recruitment at 
the general interview shall qualify to be called for 
the structured interview. Even if a certain number 
of candidates are not qualified to be called for the 
structured interview, other candidates shall not be 
called again for the general interview in place of 
those who are not so qualified.
 (iv) appointments shall be made to Grade three (iii) 
according to merits beginning from candidates 
who have scored highest marks as per the total 
marks obtained at the written examination and the 
structured interview by the number of candidates 
expected to be appointed according to the existing 
vacancies.
Note.– opportunity given to a candidate for appearing 
for the interview does not necessarily mean that 
the candidate has possessed qualifications to be 
awarded an appointment.
 14.3 the results shall be communicated to the 
applicants personally by the commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or by the web site                                 
www.results.exams.gov.lk
15. Syllabus of the Written examination :
(1)  General intelligence:
 it is expected to assess the capacity of 
the candidate in analytical skills, logical 
comprehension, interpretative ability, ability in 
application to other situations and arriving at 
conclusions, in response to problems presented 
to the candidate in relation to numerical, lingual 
and figurative structure and inter- relations.
 (duration: 1 1/2 hrs. - 100 marks. this paper 
will consist of Multiple choice Questions. all 
questions shall be answered)
(2) Social, Economic, Political background and 
trends in Sri lanka
 it is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of 
the social, economic, political, cultural, scientific 
and technological conditions in Sri lanka or 
his ability to think creatively, analytically and 
critically, and the ability to decide priority and 
strategic projection in response to a situation 
presented to the candidate.
 (duration: 3 hrs.- 100 marks. this paper will 
consist of Multiple choice Questions, short 
Questions, questions on Structured Essays and 
Essays. all questions shall be answered)
(3) case study relevant to Public administration 
i (Relating to the Establishments code Public 
Services commission Procedural rules and 
financial Regulations)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2387
 it is expected to test the candidate’s creative thinking power and problem solving ability in terms of the practice 
of government service as per the Establishments code and the financial Regulations by presenting to him a case/
cases built up connecting one or several problems that may arise in different environments in the public service.
 (duration 3 hours- 100 marks. this paper will consist of Multiple choice Questions, short Questions, questions 
of Structural Essays and Essays. all questions shall be answered)
(4) case study relevant to Public administration ii (Relevant to the evaluation of creative, analytical and 
communicative skills)
 it is expected to test the candidate’s ability for reasoning and imagination in relation to the analyzing, collating 
and presenting of information on a topic/theme selected by the candidate from a given set of topics/themes; and 
the ability to comprehend a complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and express the salient ideas 
thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate’s own words.
 (duration 3 hours- 100 marks. all questions shall be answered)
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala notification 
shall prevail.
on the order of Public Service commission,
 J. J. 
RathnasiRi,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration,  
 disaster Management and  Rural Economic affairs.
05th July of 2019.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM
 (For office use only)
Limited COmpetitive examinatiOn fOR ReCRuitment 
tO gRade iii Of sRi Lanka administRative seRviCe -2018(2019)
1.0 medium :
   Medium of Examination 
   Sinhala - 2
   t amil - 3
   English - 4
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
The application should be filled in the medium of language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
2.0  Personal Information :
 2.1  Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  e.g. : HERatH  MudiyaNSElaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa
 2.2  Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  e.g. GuNaWaRdHaNa H.M.S.K.
 2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.4 Official address in English block capitals (Admission card will be sent to this address) :–––––––––––.
 2.5  Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.6 Private address (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.7 Gender : Male  - 0
    female  - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2388
 2.8 National identity card No. :
 2.9 telephone No. :
  Mobile :
  fixed :
 2.10 Marital status : unmarried  - 1
    Married   - 2 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 2.11 Race : (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, other - 5)
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 2.12 date of Birth : y ear :                                Month :                   date :
3.0 indicate the language medium in which you passed the qualifying examination/interview for entry to the service/grade 
as at 01.07.2018 :––––––––––––.
4.0 (i) Whether all the qualification mentioned in Para 6 of the Gazette Notification has been fulfilled ? :––––––––––. 
 (a) age as at 01.07.2018 :––––––––––––.
 (b) Educational qualification and experience :––––––––––––.
  State whether the candidate become qualified under Para 06(b) I or (b) II as per the Para 06(b) of the Gazette 
Notification :––––––––––––.
   date of graduation :––––––––––––.
   university/ institute  :––––––––––––.
   Registration number  :––––––––––––. 
   internal/External  :––––––––––––. 
   degree  :––––––––––––.
   Subjects  :––––––––––––.
   class  :––––––––––––.
  upper/lower  :––––––––––––. 
   Effective date of the degree  :––––––––––––.
   language medium in which the candidate sit for the Examination  :––––––––––––.
 (c) Services/grades that gives qualifications to the candidature [Class, Grade or Segment (if any) should be indicated]
Present Post :––––––––––––.
  Whether the said post belongs to Public Service or Provincial Public Service? :––––––––––––.
  Grade :––––––––––––.
  class/Segment :––––––––––––.
  date of appointment to the post :––––––––––––. 
  Date of confirmation in the said post :––––––––––––. 
  Salary code and Salary Scale :––––––––––––.
  If several services are applicable for you to be qualified for applying for this post, particulars of said periods of  
 (active and satisfactory ) service shall be mentioned in the following table -
Name of Service/Grade Salary Code as per the P . A. Circular 
applicable Ex. : MN2-2016(A)
Date of Appointment
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2389
 (ii)  Total period of active and satisfactory service as at 01.07.2018, on which the qualifications in the services/grades of a 
approved post mentioned in Para (6) of the Gazette Notification shall be fulfilled :––––––––––––.
5.0  Mention the years if you have sat for the examinations held before for recruitment to Sri lanka administrative Service.
Name of the exam Appeared/did not Appear
Number of sittings at the examinations after 01.07.2012 under 
the Minute of Sri lanka administrative Service published 
in the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka No: 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013 (currently 
Effective)
2013(2015) limited
2014(2016) limited
2015(2016) Stage
ii limited
 
6.0.  Paste the cash receipt properly: 
Paste the cash receipt (original) firmly, from the edge
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
7.0  Certificate of the candidate:
I declare that during the five years immediate preceding 01.07.2018, I have earned all the salary increments (except 
the salary increment for which passing of service or department examination has been prescribed as a condition) possessed 
active and satisfactory service period as at 01.07.2018, as per Para 06 (b) of the Gazette notification and that I have not been 
subject to any form of disciplinary punishment (Excluding warning).
i declare that 1 am eligible to sit this limited competitive Examination as per all rules and regulations mentioned in 
the Gazette, and that to the best of my knowledge, the information given in this is true, and that I have affixed the receipt No. 
............... dated ...................... being payment of the examination fees. i also agree to be bound by the rules and regulations 
of this examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior or during or after the examination, if it 
is found that i am ineligible according to the Service Minute where the provisions on this examination are included. further, 
i declare that i shall be bound by the rules and regulations and the decisions of the commissioner General of Examinations 
on conducting of this examination and issuing the results.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
8.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the personal file) :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................who is submitting this application is serving in a post of 
.................. in Ministry/ department of ........................................ under the Government/Provincial council of..............., 
and has earned all salary increments during the period of 5 years prior to 01.07.2018 (Excluding those conditional to passing 
service or departmental examinations), has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except warnings) during 
the said period, possessed active and satisfactory service period of....(five/ten) years, as per Para 06 (b) of the Gazette 
notification, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in the relevant Gazette Notification, he/
she has paid the prescribed examination fees and affixed the receipt herein, and signed this application in my presence.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Department/Authorized Officer. 
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(Place official frank)
07–717

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2390
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE, RuRAL 
ECONOmIC AffAIRS, LIvESTOCk, 
IRRIGATION, fIShERIES AND AquATIC 
RESOuRCES DEvELOPmENT
Department of Agrarian Development 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of tEcHNical 
officER (MEcHaNical) of GRadE iii of 
tEcHNoloGical SERVicE catEGoRy - 
SuPERViSoRy MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNt of 
tHE dEPaRtMENt of aGRaRiaN 
dEVEloPMENt - 2019
aPPlicatioNS are hereby invited from the Sri lankan 
citizens who are in possession of the qualifications spelled out 
below  to  fill 05 vacancies of Technical Officer (Mechanical) of 
technological Service category (MN 3 - 2016) - Management 
assistant of the department of agrarian development 
under the Ministry of agriculture, Rural Economic affairs, 
livestock, irrigation, fisheries and aquatic Resources 
development.
applications   perfected    using     both     sides    of an  a4 paper                                                                                                                                       
(21cm x 29cm) according    to     the    specimen     application                                                                                                                                   
appended  to  this   notification and should  be  filled  by the   
candidate him/herself. the application which is 
not conform with the given specimen application 
will be rejected. application should be sent only 
by the registered post addressed to “commissioner  
General, department of agrarian development, No.42, Sir 
Marcus fernando Mawatha, P.o. Box. 537, colombo 07” on 
or before  02.08.2019. the top left hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application should be marked as "Recruitment 
to the post of Technical Officer (Mechanical) of the 
department of agrarian development - 2019". the 
candidates who are already in State Service should forward 
the application form through the Head of the department and 
the applications which are late and incomplete will be rejected 
without any notice. applications should be filled by the 
candidate in the medium of language that the candidate is 
willing to sit for the Exam.
(1)  Job Description :
1.1 to be the in charge of machineries / 
vehicles belonging to the Mechanical unit 
and test the operation of the same.
1.2 Matters related to repair and proper 
maintenance of machineries / vehicles and 
maintain documents related to same.
1.3 Select machineries and vehicles suitable for each 
project and site.
1.4 To be act as the Officer In Charge of the 
mechanical staff of the mechanical unit, train the 
staff and instruct them. 
(2) Terms of engagement :
2.1 this post is permanent. it is subject to the policy 
decision to be taken by the Government in the 
future relating to the pension scheme. Officers 
must contribute to the "Widows and orphans" 
Pension fund / “Widowers & orphans” Pension 
fund from their salary.
2.2 the selected candidates should subject to the 
rules and regulations of the Establishment 
code, financial Regulations, Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No. 1589/30 
dated 20.02.2009 relating to the appointments 
of the Government Service, the directions of the 
department and other regulations and orders that 
may be issued by the government from time to 
time.
(3)  General Qualifications :
3.1 applicant must be a citizen of Sri lanka.
3.2 Should bear a good character and should be in 
good physical and mental fitness.
3.3 Selected candidates must agree to serve in any 
part of the island.
3.4 the age must be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 30 years on the closing date of calling 
of applications. the age limit would not be 
applicable to the candidates who are already in 
State Service or Provincial State Service.
3.5 No person who is ordained in any religious 
order shall be allowed to apply or sit the same 
examination.
 
(4)  Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed the 
G. c. E.(o/l) Examination in Six (06) subjects with credits 
for Sinhala/tamil /English, Mathematics, Science and any 
other subject at one sitting;
And
Should have passed the G. c. E. (a/l) Examination in 
three subjects of Science subject streams, including two 
subjects from chemistry, Physics, combined Maths or in 
three subjects of technology subject streams, including 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2391
two subjects from Engineering technology, Science for 
technology, information and communication technology.
(5) Professional Qualifications.– in addition to the 
educational qualifications mentioned in 4 above, candidate 
should have completed and obtained certificate for one of 
the following professional qualification related to the subject 
area, on the last date of calling application.
 i. National technical diploma (Mechanical) 
offered by university of Moratuwa or HaRdy  
industrial institute, ampara.
  or
 ii. diploma in Engineering (Mechanical) offered by 
the National apprentice and industrial training 
authority.
  or
 iii. National Higher diploma in Engineering 
(Mechanical) offered by the Ministry of 
Education and Higher Education.
  or
 iV . technical diploma (Mechanical) offered by the 
open university of Sri lanka.
  or
 V.  Successful completion of the first part of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by Sri 
lanka institute of Engineering.
  or
 Vi. Completion of National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) level 6 relevant to the field of employment 
concerned.
  or
Vii. Any other technical qualifications recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission as equivalent to the above 
mentioned technical qualifications, following 
the opinions obtained by consulting the Ministry 
of Higher Education and the institutes issuing 
above mentioned technical certificates.
(6)  Method of Selection for Job Filed :
6.1 Terms on Written Competitive examination.– 
applicants are referred to the written examination 
and out of the candidates who have scored a 
minimum of 40% marks or above in each subject. 
in the order of merit based on the total marks 
scored for two subjects will qualify to appear for 
the general interview and selection will be made 
accordingly. Marks shall not be allocated at the 
general interview and the eligibility will only be 
examined.
6.2 Syllabus of the Written examination.– the 
examination will mainly consist of two (02) 
papers.
1. intelligence test 1 hour 100 total marks
2. common test 1 hour 100 total marks
 (Technical and Subject affiliated Test)
Syllabus :
01.  Intelligence Test :
 Paper consists with 50 multiple choice, short answer 
type questions which is expected to assess the level 
of intelligence of the candidate in language ability 
and comprehension, logical comprehension and 
general intelligence.
02. Common Test :
1. Motor Mechanics
 i.  determine the importance of lubrication, 
methods of lubrication and its errors.
 ii. identifying the types of lubricant and the 
equipment tire tubes used in its applications.
 iii. Servicing tire tubes.
 iV . determine the operation and troubleshooting 
of the motor vehicle engine parts, clutch 
system, power transmission system & various 
parts of vehicle and repairs.
 V.  Plate work and painting of vehicle body parts.
2.  in construction Machinery,
 i.  Maintain hydraulic systems and maintenance 
and repairs of the same.
 ii. Maintain electrical / electronic / computer 
systems and maintenance and repairs of the 
same.
 iii. Maintain undercarriage and operating parts 
of machineries and maintenance and repairs 
of the same.
3.  Machinery Pool :
 I.  Identification of different types of machines 
in mechanical units.
 ii.  Proper operation and maintenance of different 
types of machines in mechanical units.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2392
4.  characteristics of Materials and Simple calculations
 I.  Identification of various materials.
 ii. Simple calculations such as 
behaviour, volume, force, moment,  
function, efficiency etc while performing 
force on materials.
5. Safeguard Methods :
 i.  Safeguard methods to be on mechanical units 
/ machineries.
6. Teaching Methods.– Preparation of teaching 
methods and teaching materials that follows 
while conducting theoretical and practical classes 
related to accurate application, determination of 
errors and maintenance of machines in the above 
mentioned mechanical unit, understanding on 
modern teaching materials.
6.3 Medium of examination.– the examination will be 
held in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. the 
candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in 
one and the same language.
(7) Recruitment.– Candidates who are qualified 
educationally and professionally which are mentioned under 
the paragraph 4 and 5 above, will be recruited under the post 
of Technical Officer (Machinery) of Class III of Sri Lanka 
technological Service.
(8) Salary Scale (Monthly Basis).– Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 
- 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550 as per the salary 
code MN-3-2016 under the schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016. (the new salary 
scales in Schedule i will be entitled from 01.01.2020 and 
until then, the salaries will be paid as specified in Schedule 
ii)
(9) Grade Promotions.– according to the scheme 
of recruitment for Supervisory Management assistant - 
technical Service category.
(10) examination Fees.– the Examination fee of Rs. 
1000/= could only be paid to any agrarian Service center 
and said agrarian Service center will produce a.S.c./2(a) 
receipt to the candidate. the receipt obtained should be 
affixed in the relevant cage of the application so as not to be 
detached. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of this receipt 
with the candidate. the fee is non refundable and it shall not 
be paid back, under any circumstances.
 (11) Implementation of the Official Languages Policy .– 
Prescribed official language policy should be obtained 
within 05 years of joining the service as per Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 and consequent 
circulars.
(12) Attestation of the Signature.– candidate’s 
signature in the application form should have been attested 
by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-law, commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted 
post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent, 
staff grade post in Public Service.
 W.M.M.B. 
WeeRasekaRa,
 commissioner General of 
 agrarian development.
department of agrarian development, 
P.o. Box 537,
colombo 07,
20th of June, 2019.
For office use only
speCimen appLiCatiOn fORm
Open COmpetitive examinatiOn fOR ReCRuitment
 tO the pOst Of teChniCaL OffiCeR (meChaniCaL) Of gRade 
iii Of teChnOLOgiCaL seRviCe CategORy - supeRvisORy 
management assistant Of the depaRtment Of agRaRian 
deveLOpment - 2019
language medium of the written examination:
 
Sinhala - S
tamil  - t
English  - E
 (Write the relevant letter in the cage)
01.  (i)  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
  (in capital English letters)
 (ii) full Name (Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. (i)  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Postal address (admission card will be sent to this 
address) :––––––––––––.
 (iii) the Permanent Resident district of the applicant 
:––––––––––––.
 (iv) divisional Secretariat division :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2393
03.  Gender:
  Male  - 0 
  female - 1  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
04.  National identity card Number:
05. (i)  date of Birth : 
     y ear                                 Month                          date 
 (ii)  age as at the closing date of applications : 
     y ears                         Months                       days  
06.  contact number :
07.  Marital Status :
  unmarried  - 1
  Married  - 2 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
08. Details of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination (Please attach the copies of the certificates)
 (i) year and month the examination was passed :–––––––––––––. 
 (ii) index Number of the candidate :–––––––––––––.
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
  .......................... .............. .......................... ..............
  .......................... .............. .......................... ..............
  .......................... .............. .......................... ..............
  .......................... .............. .......................... ..............
  .......................... .............. .......................... ..............
09. Details of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Please attach the copies of the certificates)
 (i) year and month the examination was passed :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) index Number of the candidate :–––––––––––––.
  Subject Grade  
  .......................... .............. 
  .......................... ..............  
  .......................... ..............  
  .......................... ..............  
  .......................... ..............  
10. Other Qualifications : Technical / Professional (Please attach the copies of the certificates) :
Institute Name of the Course Time Period Grade
11. Experience under the related field :–––––––––––––.
12. (i)  Number and date of the Receipt :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  agrarian Service center :–––––––––––––.         district :–––––––––––––.
Paste the Original receipt here firmly
(Keeping a Photocopy of the Receipt will be useful in future inquiries)

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'19
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2019
2394
13.  Statement of the applicant :
i, do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that 
if any information furnished by me in this application is found to be false or inaccurate before i am selected, i am liable 
to disqualify for selection and i will be subject to relevant disciplinary course of action if such revelation is made after the 
recruitment.
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
14.  attestation of the applicant's signature :
i, hereby inform that i personally know the applicant who named as ........................................ permanently resident 
at  ................................... and i hereby certify that he/ she placed his/ her signature in my presence on .........................
    ––––––––––––––––,
    Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Name of the Officer attesting the signature :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
15.  only for applicants in Public Service :
i, hereby inform that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss (Name) ...............................................................is currently appointed in this 
Ministry/ department permanently/ temporarily/ casually as (Post) ........................................... and he/ she could/ could not 
be released from duty, if he/ she is selected to the above post.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
 (Official Seal)
07–634
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.