

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.05.2016
125
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 126
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"968- 2016 uehs ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'05'20
No. 1,968 - FRIDAY ,  MAY 20,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
125
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  10 th  June, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  27 th May, 2016.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2016.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note .- Part IV (A)  of the  Gazette No. 1967 of 13.05.2016 was not  Published. 
Note .- Akurana  Baithuz Zakath (Incorporation)  Bill was  published as a supplement to the  part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri  Lanka of April 01, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.05.2016
126
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/44434.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: PLC/LO/KULI/
L.t/02.     
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the Commercial purpose, of 
establishing the  Wewegama Pradeshikaya and  Gramiya 
Bank Kuliyapitiya Multi Purpose Co-operation Society 
Ltd  has  requested on lease a  State land containing in 
extent about  16.5 Perches  out of  extent marked  Lot                                  
No. 137  as depicted in the  tracing No. F. V . P. 945 situated 
in the  village  of  Wewagama with  belongs to the  Grama 
Niladhari Division of  Wewagama   coming  within  the area 
of authority of Kuliyapitiya West Divisional Secretariat in 
the  District of  Kurunagala. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Remaining portion of same land  ;
On the East by : Remaining portion of same land  ;
On the  South by :  Lot 138 in F. V . P. 945 ;
On the West by : Lot 71 in F. V . P. 945 ;
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions : - 
   Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( From 
05.04.2016 onwards );
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  currently  
prevailing commercial   value  of the land as per 
valuation of the Chief   Valuer for the year 2016. this 
amount of the lease must be quinquennially revised  
in such a manner that the amount  as  a result of the  
revision will be not  less than  50% of the amount 
that just preceded.  
Premium .- treble  of the annual amount of the  lease  ; 
 (a)  this lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (b) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than  the purpose of  Commercial Activities  ;
 (c) this lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary and  by other  institutions;  
 (d)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (f)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 05.04.2016  ;
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
  
D. T. M. JayaThilake, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
03rd May,  2016.
05-685

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.05.2016
127
PRINtED  At  thE  DEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANKA.
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/46311.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: LC/L//19/Lt/
Hik/256.
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the purpose of Commercial, 
Ruhunu Tourism Authority in No. 153/B, S. H. Dahanayaka 
Mawatha, Galle has  requested on lease a State land 
containing in extent about  0.2537 Hectare  out of  extent 
marked  Lot  No. 01  as depicted in the  Tracing No. P. P. Ga 
3817 situated in the  village  of  Hikkaduwa with  belongs to 
the  Grama Niladhari Division of  58, Wawulagoda coming  
within  the area of authority of  Hikkaduwa Divisional 
Secretariat in the  District of  Galle. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Lot No. 3 in P. P. Ga. 1095  ;
On the East by : Lot No. 350 in P. P. Ga. 3644  and  
Railway reservation  ;
On the  South by :  Shelton Wijeratna encroached 
Karadagahawatta and Koral Rif 
hotel encroached Kistinigewata ;
On the West by : Koral Rif hotel encroached 
Kistinigewata Path  ;
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions : - 
 (a)  Term  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( From 
05.04.2016  to 30 Years );
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  
commercial   value  of the land as per valuation of 
the Chief   Valuer for the year 2016. this amount of 
the lease must be quinquennially revised  in such a 
manner that the amount  as  a result of the  revision 
will be not  more  than  50% of the amount that just 
preceded.
  
Premium .- three times of the  annual rent of the  
lease  ; 
 (b)  the lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for the purpose of  Commercial Activities;
 (d) this lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka  and  by other  institutions;  
 (e)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 05.04.2016  ;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
  
NuwaNi SuDuSiNghe, 
 Deputy  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
06th May,  2016.
05-684