

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of January 14, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 18.01.2016)
GANEGAMA SRI INDASARA DHARMAYATHANA
SANRAKSHANA SABHAWA (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Mohan Priyadarshana De Silva,
M. P. for Galle District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE GANEGAMA SRI INDASARA
DHARMAYATHANA SANRAKSHANA SABHAWA
WHEREAS an Association  called and known as the
“Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana Sanrakshana
Sabhawa” has heretofore been established at Ganegama,
Baddegama in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected  to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and fulfilled the several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage  to grant
such application:
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Ganegama Sri Indasara
Dharmayathana Sanrakshana Sabhawa  (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of  2016.
2. From and after the operative date of  this Act, such and
so many persons as now are members  the  Executive Committee
and the Advisory Board of the Ganegama Sri Indasara
Dharmayathana Sanrakshana Sabhawa (hereinafter referred to
as the “Sabhawa”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted  members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
(hereinafter referred to as the  “Corporation”)  with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “Ganegama Sri
Indasara Dharmayathana Sanrakshana Sabhawa” and by that
name may sue and be sued, in all courts, with full power and
authority to have and  use a common seal and  alter the same at
its pleasure.
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Ganegama Sri
Indasara
Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana
Sabhawa.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to establish and maintain a centre for training of
ordained Bhikkus in accordance with the ancient
religious rituals;
(b) to establish and maintain centres to conduct research
into Buddhism;
(c) to propagate and protect Buddhism and Buddhist
culture; and
(d) to foster the development of the Ganegama Sri
Indasara Dharmayathanaya and the institutions
affiliated to it and to provide for the social and cultural
upliftment of its members and the general public.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject, to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation be
administered by an Executive Committee consisting of such
members as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Sabhawa holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at a general meeting and by the votes of two-thirds of
the members present and voting to make rules, not
inconsistent with the provision of this Act, or any other written
law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members,
for the performance of the officers, agents and servants of
the Corporation, for the election of office-bearers, for the
procedure to be followed in the transaction of business, and
otherwise generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
Executive
Committee.
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(2) No rule of the Corporation for the time being in force
or which may hereafter be passed shall be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded except by the votes of two-thirds of
the members present and voting at a general meeting of the
Corporation.
(3) The rules of the Sabhawa in force at the time of the
commencement of this Act, shall, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation
made under this section.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
6. All debts and liabilities of the Sabhawa existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation
and all debts, due to and subscriptions and contributions
payable to the Sabhawa shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
7. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and excute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the corporation or any one of
them, including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations to invest its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss personnel required for
the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall be capable in law, to take  and
hold any property, movable or immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and the
Corporation shall subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation have  full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
35
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
9. The seal of the Corporation shall be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of both the
Secretary of the Corporation and the Director Monk of the
Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathanaya who shall sign their
names in token of their presence, and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. The land called “Galamakandagoda Watte” situated
at Ganegama (South) in Galu Gangabodapattu together with
the buildings thereon presently owned by the said
Dharmayathanaya shall be the headquarters of the Corporation
and shall be deemed as property vested in the Corporation.
11. (1) Ordained Bhikkus and the faithful Buddhist laity
devoted to the religion who are in agreement with the objects
of the Corporation are eligible for its membership.
(2) The members who offer alms to the Dharmayathanaya
annually shall be members with full membership rights.
(3) Those who pay a sum of Rupees one thousand (Rs.
1000.00) or more to the Corporation once, shall be its life
members.
(4) Those other than the life members and the members
and the members of the Dharmayathanaya, who pay a sum of
Rupees one hundred (Rs. 100.00) as membership.
Chairman Baddegama Pradeshiya Sabha, Divisional
Secretary, Baddegama, District Medical Officer Baddegama,
Officer In-charge of Police Station Baddegama, Grama
Niladhari Ganegama South are become member by their
designation.
12. (1) The advisory board of this Corporation shall
consist of three High Priests well versed in and devoted to
the observance of Buddhist doctrine and two learned, elderly
and pious Buddhist laymen in addition to the Director of
Dharmayathanaya and the Parivenadhipathi.
30
Advisory
Board.
How the seal
of the
Corporation
is to be
affixed.
Headquarters
of the
Corporation.
Membership
and
membership
fees.

<!-- page 6 -->

Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
(2) Except the Director of Dharmayathanaya and the
Parivenadhipathi, all other members of the Advisory Board
referred to above shall be elected at a general meeting by the
majority vote of the members.
13. (1) The first Director of the Corporation shall be
Reverend Pandith Keradewala Vajiragnana Thero (B.A.) the
Director of this Dharmayathanaya holding office at the time
of the coming into operation of this Act. The Director shall
be the Internal Administrator of the “Ganegama Sri Indasara
Dharmayathana” conducted by this Corporation and of any
other institutes, if any, to be established.
(2) The office of the Director which will fall vacant after
the present Director shall be filled by electing a Bhikku well
versed in and devoted to the observance of Buddhist doctrine
and who belongs to this monastic sector.
(3) It shall be possible to elect a Bhikku with maximum
qualifications from outside as the Director only in the event
that a monk having necessary qualifications and descending
in direct line from the monastic sector of the said Reverened
Pandit Keradewala Vajiragnana Thero is no available.
(4) All matters connected with the admission of pupils,
their expulsion, appointment of Parivenadhipathi and teachers
and their dismissal, disciplinary control, furnishing facilities
to the pupil bhikkus and making arrangements for the training
and education etc. shall be the powers and responsibilities of
the Director.
14. (1) If there is a balance money belonging to the
Corporation after incurring expenditure, it shall be credited
to the Current Account No. 1534 named “Indasara
Dharmayathana Sanrakshana Fund” at People’s Bank,
Baddegama Branch.
(2) The Director and one out of the Treasurer and the
Secretary shall sign the cheques and the necessary documents
in respect of bank transactions.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Funds of the
Corporation.
Directorship
and its
powers.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act,  and those claiming by, from or under
them.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala text and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 8 -->

Ganegama Sri Indasara Dharmayathana
Sanrakshana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .