

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 4.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  September 28,  2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 28th September, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SARANA BUDDHIST (RELIEF) FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT,  N O . 39 OF  2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1     Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007
[Certified on 28th September 2007]
L. D. — O. Inc. 11/2004
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  SARANA  BUDDHIST  (RELIEF )
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and know as “The Sarana
Buddhist (Relief) Foundation” has heretofore been established
under the guidance of Ven. Nakulugamuwe Sumana Thero
for the purpose of propagating the practice of the teachings
of the Lord Buddha effectually and to carry out and transact
all matters connected with the said Association according to
the rules of the Association
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act may be cited as the Sarana Buddhist (Relief)
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation” (hereinafter referred
to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession under the name and
style of “Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
2—PL 001532—3,300  (10/2006)
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
Sarana Buddhist
(Relief)
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to promote the cultural, social, economic and
religious development for the public advantage ;
(b) to undertake and carry out or sponsor studies and
research on Buddhism and to promote the teachings
of the Lord Buddha;
(c) to provide care for, assist and support the sick,
elderly, aged or needy bhikkus as well as general
public, where necessary;
(d) to provide assistance to under privileged children in
backward areas to further their education and
enhance their skills.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to  perform
and execute, all such acts, matters and things whatsoever as
are necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance
of the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise money, with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations from either local or foreign sources, to
invest its funds and to engage, employ and to take disciplinary
actions including dismissal of personal required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules of the Corporation be administered and managed by a
Board of Management consisting of the office-bearers and
such other persons as may be provided for in such rules and
elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of Management of  the Corporation
shall be the Executive Committee of the Foundation holding
office on the day prior to the date of the coming into operation
of this Act and which shall hold office until a new Board of
Management is elected under the rules of the Corporation.
General
powers  of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
General
objects  of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3     Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the members and by the
votes of not less than two thirds of the members present and
voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other written law for admission, withdrawal
or expulsion of members, for the election of the office-bearers
of the Board of Management for the conduct of the duties of
the office bearers of the Board of Management and the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation and generally
for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may,
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to
amended or rescinded.
(2) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Board of Management shall cause proper
books of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure,
assets and liabilities and all other transactions of the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by one or more qualified
auditor or auditors.
(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by laws, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident Partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to paractice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
audits.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day prior to the coming into operation of this Act shall be
paid by the Corporation and all debts due and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the Foundation on that date shall
be paid to the Corporation for purposes of this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of  such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation and who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence, and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
11. If upon the winding up or the dissolution of the
Corporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts
and liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall
not be distributed among the members of the Corporation,
but shall be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which is or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its or their
members.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhlala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Foundation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on the
dissolution of the
Corporation.
How the seal of
the Corporation is
to be affixed.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5     Sarana Buddhist (Relief) Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2007
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.