

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1706$10 - 2011 uehs 16 jeks i÷od - 2011'05'16
No. 1706/10  -  MONDAY ,   MAY  16,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
UVA   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Statute  of  “Rural Development of Uva Province” of No. 01  of 2011 of the Uva Province  Provincial  Council
THE above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 24th February, 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date of 01st of March  2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva  Province Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla,
02nd  of May, 2011.
1A
UV A     PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
U
VA  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  CHARTER NO. 1 OF THE   YEAR 2011
Be this a charter enacted to establish Rural Development Societies, Divisional Rural Development Authorities,
District Rural Development Authorities and Rural Development Provincial Authorities in the Province of Uva and to make
matters connected and consequential there to and to make Provisions related to registering and maintaining them and to
cancel the Rural Development Charter No. 6 of the year 2001.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
It has been enacted thus by the Uva Province  Provincial Council of Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka
1. This charter may be cited as Rural Development Charter No. 1 of the year 2011, whilst it shall
come into operation with effect form the date of approval or the post-date declared by the
Governor of the Province of Uva.
Enactment.
Title in brief and
of operation.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
2A
2. Promoting of social, economic spiritual and mental development of rural community by
organizing and maintaining Rural Development Institutions through rural, divisional and
district levels.
2.1 To accomplish the rural community, guide them for active participation in development
tasks of their own areas.
2.2 To encourage and consider the partnership of rural community for planning, making
decisions and active participation in development procedures.
2.3 To make rural community aware to gain ability to take over rural leadership and empower
them to be pilots in community services.
2.4 To accomplish the progress of the female community in their inborn talents and abilities
by displaying through Women’s Progress Development Centres and uplifting their
social and living condition.
2.5 To develop the rural youth sector to gain active partnership in divisional development
tasks productively.
2.6 To make the rural youths as transmutes for introducing and establishing the new
development trends, techniques and strategies.
2.7 To implement and maintain proper and appropriate projects in the objective of bringing
out talents and capabilities of the youths in the Province.
3. The specimen set of rules and regulations issued and supplied by the Provincial Ministry on
behalf of the Rural Development Societies and other Authorities established in accordance
with this charter should be consented and approved by the relevant organization in a general
meeting.
4. The authorized area of a Rural Development Society should not be beyond and exceeding a
Grama Sewa Niladhari area. Other societies can be established for villages or estate Settlements
Units with Economic, Social and Geographical identification. In regard to any special project
one or more Grama Sewa Niladhari Divisions can be considered and identified as one authorized
area of Rural Development Societies.
4.1 One Divisional Rural Development Authority shall be compulsorily established in each
and every Divisional Secretary Area.
4.2 The Authorized area of any District Authority shall be the relevant Administrative
District.
4.3 The Provincial Authority shall be established. The task of this Authority is awarding
and granting donations and assistance for self employments collecting funds and
functioning actively through Divisional and District Authorities.
4.4 The authorized area for any Provincial Authority is a collection of administrative districts.
4.5 Draft code of the relevant Provincial Authority.
Regulations of
Rural
Development
Societies and
Authorities.
Rural
Development
Societies and
other authorized
areas.
Objectives and
taks.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
CODE  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL   AUTHORITY  OF  RURAL   DEVELOPMENT
1. Name  : This Authority is termed as Uva Provincial Rural Development Authority.
2. Office : Rural Development Ministry, Uva Provincial Council.
3. Authorized Area : Two districts Badulla and Monaragala belonging to Uva Province.
4. Aim : To grant a direct participation for Rural Development, through District Authorities and
Divisional Authorities for effecting partnership in economic, social and cultural development
focusing on income generating sources by improving the skill of the youth generation in
bestowing infrastructure facilities and modern technical knowledge based on collective labour,
ability and talents of the people through the Rural Development Enterprise organized in the
aim of performing common development tasks.
5. Objectives :
5.1 Establishing of District Authorities and assisting to strengthen them.
5.2 Establishing of Divisional Authorities and assisting to strengthen them.
5.3 To prepare and effect required strategies to perform the objectives of the Women’s Societies
and Rural Development Societies formed in Uva Province.
5.4 To get together with governmental and non-governmental organizations and institutions
which combine in Rural Development and to co-ordinate those organizations or institutions
with District and Divisional Authorities.
5.5 To strengthen the District/Divisional Authorities in performing a main or priority task in Rural
Development by exchanging experiences of local and foreign organizations and institutions.
5.6 To plan and conduct required research/experiment and training activities in implementing the
participatory development access for developing of infrastructure facilities and to minimize
the rural poverty with aimed groups instead of Rural Development access.
5.7 To take action to establish a mode of society consisting harmonious collective lives which
participate in Rural Development.
5.8 To collect money for the provincial fund and grant them to Divisional Authorities for Rural
Development according to a proper and legally correct way.
6. Membership :
6.1 Officers as Hony. President, Secretary and Treasurer in the two District Authorities Badulla
and Monaragala.
6.2 Six (6) delegates for 2 districts as 3 for each district approved by the Hon. Minister in-Charge
of the subject.
6.3 The following officers from the government sector will act as advisors of the official authority
for the Provincial Authority.
7. Obtaining of the Membership
7.1 To produce a letter approved by the Director of Rural Development with the recommendations
of the two district officers after the registering of the District Authorities.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
4A
7.1 Through nomination in writing by the Hon. Minister in-Charge of the subject.
8. Suspension of Membership :
8.1 Disentitlement of the membership in District Rural Development Authority.
8.2 Non updating of officers in the District Authority of the existing District Authority within the
scheduled period of time.
8.3 Cancellation of the appointments of delegates nominated by the Hon. Minister in-Charge of
the subject.
8.4 Not being a permanent resident of Uva Province.
8.5 Occurring of death.
8.6 On proof that activities done against or contrary to the objectives and aims of the Provincial
Authority.
8.7 On punishment meted out by being sentenced as guilty in a court of law.
8.8 Cessation of the term of office of 2 years.
9. Term of Office :
Term of Office in Provincial Authority is 2 years. Within 3 months of the cessation of 02 years
period the Provincial Authority should be established.
Yet the Chief-Secretary is able to take action to decide to re-establish the Provincial Authority on
voidance due to being inactive before the cessation of the term of office or on a request made by the two
(2) District Azuthorities and 2 3 of the 26 Divisional authorities that the Provincial Authority could not
perform the common objectives and aims of the Authority and failed to execute properly.
10. Council Meetings :
10.1.1 Anniversary - The Annual General Meetings of the Provincial Huthority should be held
within 3 months after every 2 years from the date of establishing or from the date of inaugural
meeting.
10.1.2 The two District Authorities which have not ceased the term of office effected for this should
inform in writing on or before 14 days.
10.1.3 The Hon. Minister who is in-Charge of the should be informed before 14 days in writing.
10.1.4 When the District Authorities are inactive, the Secretary of the Ministry is able to extent the
term  of office by 6 months at his discretion until the time they are updated.
10.2.1 Holding of General Meetings : A General Meeting of a Provincial Authority should be held at
least once in 3 months. The members should be informed in writing before 7 day for this
meeting.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
10.2.2 Holding of Special General Meetings  :
A special General Meeting can be called within 7 days in an essential situation on information
by the Secretary of the Ministry or on the request of the Chairman of the Authority or on a
request made by a majority of 2/3 of the membership.
10.2.3 Committee Meeting :
A Committee Meeting should be called once in every month. When Committee Meetings are
held the members should be informed in writing 5 days before.
10.2.4 Special Committee Meetings  :
A Special Committee Meeting can be called within 2 days in the special instance on the
request of the Secretary to the Ministry of the information given by the Chairman.
10.2.5 The secretary to the ministry should be made aware when all meetings mentioned above are
held, while the Secretary to the Ministry Director Rural Development and District Officers
should be informed in writing.
11. Quorum  :
A participation of 1/3 of the membership for a General Meeting or Committee  Meeting is
required while 2/3 of the membership is required to participate for an Annual General Meeting.
12. Proposal  :
The proposal forwarded for a General Meeting should be submitted in writing to the Secretary before
2 weeks.
13. Officers  :
At an Annual General Meeting or at the inaugural general meeting the following officers should be
selected out of the 12 in the active body on order or vote :-
(i) Chairman - 01
(ii) Secretary - 01
(iii) Treasurer - 01
(iv) V ice Chairman - 01
(v) Assistant Secretary - 01
(vi) Audit Inspector - 01
The other 06 members shall be committee members.
13.1.1 Caretaker body  :
The Hony. Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer will delegate as three (3) on private name with
Provincial Director and Secretary to the Ministry as two (2) delegates from the government
and these 5 (five) will execute the duties as the Caretaker body of the Provincial Authority.
13.1.2 Patron :
According to the discretion of the Authority a person engaged in rural development tasks
can be appointed as a patron.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
6A
13.1.3 Advisor
The secretary of the rural development Ministry/Assistant Director/Two District Officers will
execute duties as the advisors of this authority. These officers have the power to inspect and
check registries, books and documents belonging to the society, to attend meetings and to
advice on relevant tasks for the progress of the body without being opposed or contrary to
the objectives of the authority.
13.1.4 Responsibilities of the officers.
1. Chairman : To the Chairman of the authority, to conduct and maintain the relevant tasks
for the progress in the development process for the rural development securing
unanimity and harmony.
2. Secretary : The Secretary should maintain registers and books and execute his work
follows:
2.1 To maintain the records and minutes of the general meetings, committee meetings,
Annual General Meetings and special committee meetings well, regularly and
proper manner.
2.2. Calling of society meetings properly and regularly as scheduled.
2.3 Effecting and executing of the decisions of the societies.
2.4 Duties in respect of the letters or correspondence received and sent including
official seal.
2.5 To keep separately the questions, problems and details relevant development
field.
3. Treasurer
The treasurer should be responsible for the monetary assets of the society and holds
the responsibility of submitting the register pertaining to the budget of the society in
respect of meetings of the society or Annual General Meetings to the council to the
Secretary of the Ministry/Assistant Director/ District Officers with the recommendations
of the Audit Inspector.
4. Vice Chairman
To assist the Chairman and to perform duties on behalf on him on occasions where the
Chairman is not present.
5. Assistant Secretary
To assist the Secretary and to perform duties on behalf on him on occasions when the
Secretary in not present.
6. Audit Inspector
To check the accounts in budget reports prepared by the Treasure, correct them inspect
the assists of the authority and certify that all the reports and returns are correct and
genuine.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
7. Committee Members.
The responsibility of the committee members is to assist in the activities done and
actions taken by the authority relevant to the progress of the provincial authority.
14. Funds : Funds can be supplied to the society as indicated here under.
1. Funds received for development  purposes on allocations made by the Hon. Ministers and
members of the council.
2. Interest money obtained on Funds belonging to the society that are released for projects.
3. Funds collected on the discretion of the authority utilizing approval and appropriate made
subject to rules and regulations.
4. Donations made by Government and non-governmental institution and organization and
from sponsors and well wishers.
5. The Funds belonging to inactive rural development societies within the province of Uva can
be credited to the provincial fund.
15.  Control and Management funds.
The Treasurer is able to hold Rs. 1,000 (Rs. One Thousand) as cash on hand belonging to the authority.
The balance funds should be deposited in a state bank under the name of the society. For the
management of the funds, the signatures of the Hony. Chairman/Secretary/Treasurer and the Secretary
of the ministry in charge of the subject should be given to the relevant bank in accept two signatures
of the Chairman or Secretary including the signature of the Treasurer and the signature of the Assistant
Director (Rural Development) or the Secretary in charge of the ministry in case of withdrawals of
funds.
16. Revision of the Constitution
Revision of the Constitution or enacting new provisions or regulations can be done at a constitutional
General Meeting held in time on the majority consent of 2/3 and above of the membership. The
approval for such provisions or regulations enacted or revised compulsorily or effected should be
obtain from the Secretary in charge of the subject in the ministry.
5. Rural Development Society
5.1 To identify the Natural and Human resources of the village through an analyzed study.
5.2 To improve the knowledge and awareness of the entrepreneurship in solving.
A. Problems arisen in production.
B. Problems arising in marketing the output or finished articles.
(In any Production process an utilized rural resources)
5.3 To made the existing rural income sources productive, identify ne techniques and made
aware the community in such procedures.
5.4 To make  the process of flow of identified new techniques strategies to the rural
community and to make the traditional production process more productive and
meaningful.
The task of a
Rural
Development
Society.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
8A
5.5 To make the fundamental and elementary laws in planning and implementation process
as the spirit of the practical knowledge of the rural community.
5.6 To collect the required funds to execute the above tasks.
6. To collect required funds to implement the above tasks.
6.1 To grant the required advisory and consultancy services in maintaining Rural
Development Societies properly.
6.2 To advice in building up of required funds in strengthening the tasks of Rural
Development Societies.
6.3 To grant the opportunity for Rural Development Societies to participate and submit
proposals in providing of Divisional Planning.
6.4 To improve inter-relationship among the divisional level of Rural Development Societies.
7. 1.1 To provide advisory consultancy services to fulfill the objectives of the Rural
Development Societies and divisional authorities
7.2 To promote appropriate inter-cooperative understanding to enable the relevant parties
to obtain the support and assistance of government and non-governmental organization.
7.3 To introduce a successful strategy in utilizing the experience of Rural Development
Societies in the district development.
7.4 To build up a confidence in the community through planning and implementing the
ample uses of the participatory development access.
8. The tasks of the Uva Provincial Authority
8.1 Each and every Rural Development Society shall inaugurate a fund and maintain it in
the aim of getting its tasks per formed.
8.2 The Rural Development member societies of a divisional authority shall donate a definite
portion of its funds to the divisional Authority for its fundamental requirements and
get the membership established in the Divisional Authority.
9. All in the staff who are utilized and engaged up to now for the subjects of the management
the Rural Development in accordance with the amendment constitution under list No. 1 of the
subsection No. 9 shall be identified as officers of the provincial Government service from the
effective date of this charter.
10.
10.1 Uva Provincial Council shall appoint a provincial Rural Development director and the
relevant district staff according to the requirements for the management of the subject
of Rural Development.
10.2 These officers shall be appointed by the Governor of the Province or competent
authority.
The tasks of the
district
authorities of
rural
development.
Rural
Development
organizational
fund
Organizing of
the provincial
department and
the staff
Provincial
Director

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
10.3 The task of the Rural Development shall be decided by the secretary of the department
while the officers should take action to achieve the objectives of this charter.
11. The provincial public servants of Uva who are appointed to implement the provision for this
charter are considered as sensible servants in conformity to the penal code.
12. All the officers who have been appointed under the provisions of this charter shall act in
conformity to the general and special orders and provisions issued by the minister or the
secretary to the ministry in implementing their powers and responsibilities.
13. Money should be allocated in the Provincial Council Annual Budget for management of the
capital and recurrent expenditure of the department.
14. All the liabilities indicated here under shall be credited to the Account under the name of Uva
Provincial Authority.
A. Special grants received form the government
B. Special allocation made by the provincial council
C. Donations received from an individual, institution or organization.
D. Donations received from non-governmental organization.
E . Income derived from lotteries, shows or any other legally acceptable modes of income
earning.
F . Money derived through liquidating societies in Uva Province which have become
ineffective and cannot be made effective.
15. 1 Financial year of the societies and Authorities shall be the calender year
15. 2 All accounts of societies and Authorities shall be subject to audit under paragraph 23
of provincial council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
16. 1 All officers are bound to perform duties under the subject of Rural Development in
accordance with regulations approved and enacted by the ministry.
16. 2 The ministry should maintain an updated register of all registered Rural Development
Societies, Divisional and District Authorities.
16. 3 The office f the Divisional Secretary should maintain the relevant register pertaining to
the Division of the Divisional Secretary.
16. 4 The Secretary has the power to hold proper inquiries and investigation against the
officers of the societies and Authority who violate the approved regulation and
provisions or objectives of this charter. It shall be lawful to commence legal action
against relevant parties. dissolve societies and dismiss employees from service
according to the circumstances at the end of an investigation or inquiry.
16. 5 The Secretary of the Ministry has the power to reorganize, recompile re-register or
cancel relevant societies after  taking action according to the paragraph 16 : 4 indicated
above.
Relevance to the
penal code.
Accounts of the
department.
Accounting of
other grants and
donations
received for the
promotion of
matters of the
rural
development of
the rural
development.
Financial year.
Violation of
approved
regulations in
performing
work
5 — PG 001242

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
10A
16. 6 The assets of a cancelled society shall be handed over properly to an institute or an
individual officer named by the secretary of the ministry while responsibility of the
relevant assets should not be taken over from the person who held such property or
assets until the action is properly completed.
Interpretation
1. Minister - The minister in charge of the subject of Rural Development
2. Secretary - The secretary of the relevant ministry
3. Assests and Property - The books and registers, office equipment, legal documents, buildings,
lands and other movable and immovable property bank balances on hand money belonging
to the Development institutions.
4. Meaning of words and phrases - If there is any different interpretation or complication in
meaning in Sinhala, Tamil or English version in words or phrases, the Sinhala version shall be
accepted as correct.
06-15/1
UVA   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial  Education  of Uva Province of No. 01  of 2011 of the Uva Provincial Council
The above statute having approved by the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 24th February, 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 11th of April, 2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva  Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla,
02nd of May, 2001
UV A     PROVINCIAL   EDUCATONAL   CHARTER  OF   THE   UV A     PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Charter No. 4 of the year 2011 for the Provincial Education of Uva Province
Be this a charter to establish the subject of Education and Educational services and made matters connected
and consequential hereto is extent to the limits indicated in list one of the schedule nine of the constitution
of democratic socialist republic of Sri Lanka and also to make provision to cancel the educational charter
No. 4 of 1990 of Uva Provincial Council.
The provision of the charter is in accordance to the Educational Ordinance No. 31 of 1939 amended
from time to time
This charter is enacted by Uva Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Enacted by Uva Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as thus :

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
(1) This charter is cited as “Educational Charter No. 4 of the Year 2011 of Uva Province Provincial
Council.
This charter shall come into operation with effect from the date of an approval of the Governor
of Uva Province.
(2) In regard to effecting an Educational service within the Province of Uva, to bring up citizens
with creative skills and talents to suit the economic and social needs of the country (hereinafter
referred as Department) Educational Department of Uva Provincial Council, Posts of Provincial
Director of Education, Additional Provincial Director of  Education, Deputy Director of
Education, Zonal Director of Education Assistant Director of Education and Divisional Director
of Education shall hereby be established.
(3) 1. For the tasks of this charter established under section two above, the person who
holds the post under name and appellation of Provincial Director of Education
(hereinafter referred as Director) shall be the Head of the Educational Department of
Uva Province.
2. Under the normal or special provisions of the Minister-in-Charge of the subject of
Education in the Cabinet of Minister in Uva Province Provincial Council (hereinafter
referred as Minister the Secretary of the Provincial Education Ministry shall be the
person who is in charge of enforcing the provision of this charter.
3. In regard to the tasks of this charter an appropriate person for the Post of Director of
Education established under Section 2 above shall be appointed by the Governor of
Uva Province.
4. In respect of the tasks and duties of this charter in accordant to the national criterion,
the Provincial, Public Services Commission shall appoint Additional Provincial Director
of Education, Deputy Director of Education, Zonal Director of Education, Assistant
Director of Education including all required other officers.
5. All the official designations under the Uva Provincial Educational Department that
existed prior to the enactment and enforcement of this charter shall be treated as
established from the date of this charter being approved while every officer and
employee who hold posts or designations shall be considered an being appointed
under this charter.
6. Under this charter all appointments and transfers of officers shall be done by the
Governor of Uva Province or the Provincial Public Services Commission or any other
Authority which has been vested or entrusted powers from time to time.
7. According to this charter any powers vested on the Director of Education can be
entrusted or assigned by him to any Additional Director, Deputy Director, Zonal Director
or Assistant Director of Education.
8. (A) To provide facilities to all categories of schools contained in Schedule I of this
charter (except National Schools)
(B) To supervise those schools and to manage them ;
Title in brief and
date of
operation.
Establishment
of posts under
the Provincial
Education
Department of
Uva Province
vesting and
entrusting of
powers.
Tasks and duties
of Director of
the Provincial
Education
Department
SECTION   I
The Provincial Education Department and its Posts

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
12A
(C) To prepare Annual Education Plan and activate it,
(D) To appoint teachers to schools in Uva Province who are Diploma and Degree
holders of Universities and Educational Institutions and who have been accepted
as qualified and appropriate in teaching,
(E) To assess or apprise the work appraisals of Educational Officers, Principals, in
service advisors (Instructors to teachers) and teachers,
(F) To hold and conduct training programmes on the approval of the national institute
of Education and Educational line Ministry,
(G) To hold provincial examinations organized by the Provincial Educational
Department and approved by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
(H) To hold programmes of non formal Education,
(I) To make changes locally or provincially in selected subjects of primary and
secondary school educational curriculum on approval of the National Institute
of Education,
(J) To supply and distribute school furniture, teaching aid material and audio visual
equipment,
(K) To construct and maintain school buildings, libraries, play grounds and other
buildings pertaining to education,
(L) To supply and distribute school science equipment,
(M) To organize and develop school libraries under the guidance of the National
Library Service Board,
(O) To appoint principals to all schools except 1 - ABC categories of schools
(According to specifications of the national Ministry Education)
(P) To conduct and supervise Pre-schools within the province.
(Q) To demarcate the limits or Catchment area of Divisional Education offices situated
within the province.
(R) To provide all welfare facilities including free medical tests and examinations,
treatment, health and free meals and free distribution of school text books,
(S) To plan, design and implement programmes connected to adult education within
the province.
9. (i) The Provincial Education Minister shall appoint an Educational Advisory Board
(hereinafter referred to an Advisory Board) consisting of thirteen skilled and
talented persons in the field of education, with the consent of the Chief Minister
of the Province.
(ii) (A)  The Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Education.
Establishment
provincial
Education
Advisory Board
Competition of
Advisory Board.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
(B) Provincial Director of Education,
(C) A delegated member of the staff of University of Uva Wellassa nominated by
its Vice Chancellor,
(D) Four expertise in the field of education appointed by the Minister,
(E) A senior officer of the Educational Administrative Service of Sri Lanka,
(F) A retired Grade I Officer of the Educational Administrative Service of Sri
Lanka,
(G) A retired Senior Grade I Principal of the Principal Service of Sri Lanka,
(H) A Grade I Senior Officer of the Teachers’ Service,
(i) Two delegates to represent the trade unions of the field of Education.
(iii) The Secretary of the Provincial Ministry of Education shall be the ex-officio
president of this committee while the Director of Education shall be the secretary
of it.
(iv) The officers nominated for the Advisory Board shall be persons who have not
been found guilty or punished in respect of any offence or accusation during
their tenure of service.
(v) Except the Secretary of the Provincial Education Ministry and Provincial Director
of Education, the Minister of Education of the Province is able to remove any
member of the Advisory Board at his discretion on giving reasons.
(vi) A member of the Advisory Board shall hold his post for 3 years from the of such
appointment unless and otherwise his post falls vacant due to resignation, death,
removal or relinquishing from the post. It necessary they could be re-appointed.
(vii) A member of the Advisory Board is able to resign or relinquish his duties from the
post at any time through addressing a letter for such tasks to the Minister of
Provincial Education Ministry. the successor who is appointed on behalf of such
member shall hold the post only for the balance period of service of his predecessor.
(viii) The procedure in respect of convening, summoning and conducting of the meeting
of the Advisory Board are able to be executed through the order contained in the
charter. On behalf of participating in meetings of the Advisory Board an
appropriate incentive decided by the Minister of the Provincial Education
Ministry can be paid.
10. (i) To advice the Minister on matters to fulfill the education and facilities of education
focused by the Minister to the Advisory Board, requesting advice and on matters
the Advisory Board thinks that appropriate advice may be given.
(ii) To advice when the Minister makes a request to design and prepare the provincial
education development plan according to the national education policies and
objectives.
Appointment of
the President/
Secretary
Tasks of the
Advisory Board

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
14A
(iii) To obtain institution and guidance in construction of educational buildings, play
grounds, technical units, hostels and teachers quarters including other buildings
connected to the Provincial Education Department,
(iv) To supply required educational equipment for teaching and learning process and
advise in respect of library facilities, sports and other facilities,
(v) To discuss and advise as required in regard to new schools to be established,
(vi) To instruct and advice in respect of school organization, classification upgrading,
naming of schools, changing then and the closure of schools,
(vii) To instruct and advise in respect of inaugurating new classes in schools, to decide
on centres for vocational, mechanical and technical courses, matters on
non-formal education and widening the scope of teaching English and other foreign
languages,
(viii) To advice and submit new proposals or suggestions for educational development
plan or required occasions and restructuring and revising of plans,
(ix) To review the progress from time to time in respect of executing the programmes of
educational development,
(x) To submit proposals and suggestions to the Minister on actions to be taken in
respect of the qualitative development of education within the province to overcome
and preclude obstacles and difficulties in facing the process of achieving the
objectives.
11. The matters relating to the under mentioned fields shall be implemented according to the
National Policies approved by the Government from time to time :
(a) To provide compulsory education ;
(b) To admit children to Grade I and other grades in schools ;
(c) To collect facilities and service fees ;
(d) To establish and maintain the school development societies ;
(e) To develop the school curriculum and implement them ;
(f) The provincial authority should act according to the national policies in respect of
effecting transfers to teachers ;
(g) To classify the schools within Uva Province according to the classification of schools
done under the national policy.
(h) To implement co-curriculum programmes ;
(i) To appoint officers for posts and Principals for Schools according to the national
criterion.
General
provision.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
12. School buildings precincts and premises, equipment should not be utilized for any purpose
other than approved sports and games, cultural and religious activities. Also school children
should not be utilized for any occasion, celebration, tasks or purpose other than education.
If they are utilized for a national event or celebration prior approval and permission should be
sought from the Director of Education.
13. If any assets or property belonging to the Government or Provincial Council or any property
or assests received from any other source for educational tasks and purposes had been
utilized to effect educational tasks prior to the enforcement of this charter shall become as
assets and property transferred to the Education Department established under this charter.
14. (i) An annual Administrative Report should be prepared by the Director of Education
which should include how the educational matters were carried out in the reviewable
year, the problems and issues encountered with the actions taken as solutions to
preclude them and the progress of the educational field while it should be submitted
through the Secretary of the Provincial Education Ministry to the Minister of Education
on or before 30th June of the coming year.
(ii) The Minister of Education of Uva Province shall table such administrative reports at
the Provincial Council.
15. (i) The Minister has the power on other fair and justifiable reasons utilizing his power and
discretion entrusted on him to amend, change or cancel an order or decision taken or
enforced as a regulation in this charter or under this charter by the Director of Education.
(ii) In such an occasion the decision given by the Minister under the Sub-section I shall be
lawful and final while all persons subject to such decisions are bound to abide by them.
16.  (i) According to the power vested or entrusted under this charter the Minister is able to
impose regulations on or all matters connected specially :-
(a) To hold educational examinations in schools of Uva Provincial Council ;
(b) To secure and protect school buildings precincts and premises ;
(c) To inaugurate or establish new schools ;
(d) To introduce methods of assessing schools
(ii) All regulations imposed by the Minister as indicated in sub section I above, shall be
published in the Government Gazette while such regulations will be effective from the
date of publishing or definitely from postdate indicated in the regulations.
(iii) All regul ations imposed under sub section I above and after publishing in the
Government gazette it should be submitted as soon as possible to the Provincial Council
for approval. All regulations that have not been approved by the Provincial Council
shall be considered as cancelled from the date of non approval without being a hindrance
or damage to anything done under it earlier.
(iv) The date of any regulation considered as cancelled should be published in the
Government Gazette
School buildings
precincts and
premises,
equipment and
school children
should not be
utilized for other
work
Assests and
property
belonging to the
Department of
Education
Annual
Administrative
report.
Powers vested
or entrusted on
the Minister to
amend or cancel
orders and
decisions.
Imposing of
regulation.
Declaring of
school  holidays

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
16A
17. The Provincial Council has the power to declare school holidays for few or all schools
situated within the province of Uva in an emergency.
18. All officers and employees of Uva Provincial Education Department shall be considered as
Government servants in conformity to tasks and procedures in the Penal Code.
19.  (i) The financial year of the Provincial Education Department shall be the calendar year
while the administration and development tasks can be performed with the allocations
received from the annual financial statement of the provincial council funds received
from other sources or supplementary estimates when required.
(ii) The accounts of this department shall be subject to audit by the Auditor General’s
Department and Internal Audit Director of Uva Province Provincial Council and it
should be in accordance with the Section 23 of the Provincial Councils Ordinances
No. 42 of 1987 in connection to the audit.
20. Education Department of Uva Province Provincial Council should be sub scheduled as an
institution in conformity to the Bribery and Corruption Ordinance and should separate to
provision in that ordinance.
21. With effect from the date of this charter being enforced Educational Charter No. 4 of 1990 of
Provincial Council of Uva shall be cancelled
22.  Unless an implication is required in suspect of words in this charter-
(1) “Minister” means the Minister-in-Charge of the subject of Education in Uva Province
Provincial Council ;
(2) “Secretary” means the Secretary-in-Charge of the subject of Education in Uva Province
Provincial Council ;
(3) “Province” means the Uva Provincial Administrative area indicated in the 13th
amendment of the constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ;
(4) “Head of the School” means the Principal or other person acting on behalf of him ;
(5) “National Criterion” means that it should be in accordant to instructions given in
circular No. 04/03 of 02.12.2003 issued by the National Public Service Commission
which is the authority of appointments of islandwide educational administrative service ;
(6) “Provincial Public Services Commission” means the Provincial public services
commission established under the Section 33 of Chapter IV in Provincial Councils
Ordinance No. 42 of 1987.
23. If any discrepancy or different interpretation is found among Sinhala and Tamil versions of
this Charter the Sinhala version shall remain as correct.
All officers and
employees are
government
servants.
Financial year
and auditing.
Department
should be an
institution sub
scheduled in
conformity to
the bribery and
corruption
ordinance.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
SCHEDULE    I
Classification of Schools
1. 1AB Schools - Where classes on G . C. E. Advanced Level in Art, Commerce and Science
curricula are conducted.
2. 1C Schools-Where classes on Grade 11 are conducted and are able to hold classes in Art and
Commerce Curricula for G . C. E. Advanced Level.
3. 2 Schools- Where classes are conducted up to Year 9
4. 3 Schools - Where classes are conducted up to Year 5
SCHEDULE   2
Grades of principals who shall be appointed to schools according to the classification of schools
1. For A-B Schools - Educational Administrative Services II or III or officers in Grade I in the
Principal Service.
2. For C - Schools - Officers in Grade I to II in the Principals’ Service
3. For Grade 2 - Schools - Officers in Grade II or II/I in Principles’ Service
4. For Grade 3 - Schools - Officers in Grade III or Grade 3 in Principals’ Service.
05-15/2
UVA   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Statute of  “Development of Pre Childhood Age of Uva Province” of No. 05  of 2011 of the Uva Province  Provincial
Council
THE above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 24th March, 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 11th of April, 2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva  Province Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla,
2nd of May, 2011
UV A    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL  OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC
OF  SRI  LANKA
Charter No. 5  of the Year 2011 for the Development of Pre-Childhood Age
BE this a charter enacted to establish the subject of registration of Pre-school supervising, administering
and maintaining the pre-schools now conducted in the Province of Uva and to make provision of matters
6 — PG 001242

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
18A
connected and consequential thereto and make Provision to effect the duties and tasks on subjects
relevant to and under the 13th Amendment of the constitution and the powers vested to the Provincial
Council of Uva Province under the 13th Amendment of the Constitution.
Enacted by the Provincial Council of Uva Province  Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
01. This charter may be cited as Pre-school Charter No. 5 of 2011 of the Province of Uva whilst it
shall come into operation with effect from the date of approval of the Governor of the Province
of Uva.
SECTION   I
Objectives
02. The common objectives of this charter are the development of childhood during the period
from the age of 3 years to completion of the age of 5 years time limit which is considered as the
Pre-school period and to guide and show the correct path while the objectives of this charter
is to fulfill the aims indicated below  :-
(1) To enable to obtain experience in association with the faculties and establish an
appropriate, fruitful and a secured environment ;
(2) To get used to pleasant speech and to get organized with a good, polite and a complaisant
style of conduct through the day to day activities ;
(3) To train good health habits and to give appropriate nourishment to children ;
(4) To supply an environment to grow up and inculcate good qualities ;
(5) To give suitable education and render appropriate security to children during the ages
from 3 years to 5 years ;
(6) To safeguard the children and secure the rights of the children and execute the laws
pertaining to them ;
(7) To develop the mentality and personality of children ;
(8) To render an opportunity to physical and cycomotor skill development of children.
(9) To develop wise and creative skills ;
(10) To guide in conserving the environment and to appreciate the environment and to love
and enjoy the environment through it ;
(11) To render the ability to face challenging occasion ;
(12) To build a friendly environment to get trained to work in mutual life ;
(13) To allow the child to live happily and  in enjoyment during the basic childhood ;
(14) To enthuse and wake up the talents and skills of the children of this age and to effect
an envoirnment to nourish ;
(15) To render a strong foundation to their future education ;
Enactment.
Title in brief and
date of
operation
Objectives

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
SECTION   II
Administration and Supervision
03.  A competent authority shall be appointed by the Governor under the name or official name
(herein after  mentioned by the team as the competent authority) a person to execute the
provisions of this charter.
04. The under mentioned duties and tasks should be performed by the Competent Authority
under the orders and administration of the Governor :-
(A) To enter into the Pre-childhood development centres, examine the premises and relevant
letters and documents ;
(B) To question and obtain explanation from owners or those who are maintaining them or
anyone who is connected to the Pre-childhood development centre at the time in
administrative work ;
(C) To register any Pre-childhood development centre on request or to turn down (reject)
such request by showing cause ;
(D) To request owner/caretakers or those who are engaged in teaching in any Pre-childhood
development centre to confirm the qualifications or at such a time to obtain those
certificates, examine them and obtain true copies of them ;
(E) To examine and if required to take into custody all documents, registers, books, notes
reports and files etc., in any Pre-childhood development centre ;
(F) To take steps to suspend dismiss from or stop the services of those who are engaged
in teaching in any Pre-childhood development centre who fail to prove, their required
qualifications ;
(G) To order the institution or the owner or such Pre-childhood development centre to
grant the minimum facilities ordered through this charter to children studying in such
Pre-childhood Development Centre ;
(H) To suspend or stop any maintained Pre-childhood Development Centre after an
investigation being held if not maintained according to the Provisions enacted in this
charter ;
(I) To grade the Pre-childhood development centres considering the services, service
facilities and staff maintained by such Pre-childhood Development Centre ;
(J) To hold training programmes, seminars and workshops to teachers who teach in such
Pre-childhood Development Centres and the staff and to order the Pre-school teachers
who teach in Pre-schools and other connected personnel thereto participate in them ;
(K) To subject Pre-childhood development centres to supervision and investigation from
time to time ;
(L) To introduce and order to use the books, documents and forms that should be maintained
by Pre-childhood Development Centres ;
Appointment a
competent
authority
Duties and Tasks

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
20A
05. The aurhority should execute any powers, duties and tasks vested to him under any provision
out of the provisions enacted in this charter.
06. Any powers, duties, tasks vested to self or powers apportioned can be vested to any other
officer of the Local Government Services under the approval of the Governor, by the competent
authority.
SECTION    III
Appointing of Advisory Committe in respect of Pre-childhood Development Centre
07. (1) An Advisory Committee of a Pre-childhood Development Centre consisting of the
following members and hereinafter called as the Advisory Committee shall be appointed
by the Governor on recommendation of the Hon. Minister-in-Charge of the subject :-
(A) The Pre-childhood Development centre Advisory Committee herein after identified
as members appointed as ex-officio.
1. Provincial Secretary of Education ;
2. Provincial Director of Education or delegate ;
3. Provincial Director of Health Services ;
4. Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child care services ;
5. Commissioner of Local Government ;
6. Provincial Director of Social Services ;
7. A delegate well versed in the subject appointed by Hon. Chief
Minister of Uva.
                        Persons and .... ;
(B) Hereinafter appointed and called as delegates the personnel named by the
Governor :
1. Director or the delegate of the officer of National Children’s Secretariat ;
2. A Pre-school teacher named by the Local Government Commissioner ;
3. Delegates who work relevant to the subject of Pre-childhood development
belonging to voluntary organizations to represent as one delegate from
each organization who are selected by the District Secretary in a way of
representing the two districts.
08. (1) Out of the members appointed as ex-officio the Provincial Secretary of education should
be the President of the Committee, while the competent authority appointed by the
Governor should be the Secretary of the Committee.
(2) The term of office should be limited to three years.
(3) The quorum for the meeting of the Advisory Committee should consist of five members.
Competent
authority can
vest powers
Advisory
Committee of
Pre-childhood
development
centre.
That the
Competent
authority can
delegate powers

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
(4) Unless a member vacates the earlier post due to death, resignation or dismissal, such
member shall function in the post for 3 years.
(5) If an appointed member is absent for three consecutive meetings without a reason,
considered, as valid by the Advisory Committee, such member shall be treated as
vacated his post.
(6) An appointed member of the Advisory Committee can be selected or ejected from his
post at any time by the Governor.
(7) Any appointed member is able to resign from his post by means of a letter addressed to
the Governor stating that he needs to resign from his post.
(8) In an instance where a member shall demise, resign, released or ejected from the post
and/or the post fallen vacant due to other reasons, the Governor shall take into
consideration the provisions enacted in paragraph 7(1)(A) of the Charter and shall
appoint a successor. A successor appointed in lieu of such member shall hold the post
for the unexpended balance period of the post held by his predecessor.
09. (1) The Advisory Committee shall prepare the work procedures in regard to the
appointments, meetings and other relevant matters through regulations subject to the
other provisions contained in the charter.
(2) The Advisory Committee shall meet at least once in three months.
10.  If any person -
(A) is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or ceases being a citizen ;
or
(B) is stated being bankrupted or insane under any laws or regulations of Sri Lanka or any
other country ;
or
(C) is stated to have been punished or is being punished with a term of imprisonment by
the Jurisdiction of Sri Lanka or any other country ;
or
(D) iss subject to any monetary or any other connection which is harmful in execution of
his duties as a member of the Advisory Committee ;
or
(E) has been punished in respect of any punishable offence under this Charter or ineligible
to be appointed as a member of the Advisory Committee.
11. Any decision or action taken by the Advisory Committee shall not be cancelled owing to the
fact that a vacancy or a deficiency in appointing a member exists thereon.
The Advisory
Committee shall
prepare the
work
procedures.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
22A
12. The Advisory Committee shall perform the following duties and tasks :-
(A) Take relevant decision on principle in connection with the Pre-childhood Development
Centres, preparation of orders to execute them and submit such orders to the Governor
(B) Identify the duties that should be fulfilled by all sections relevant to the work of the
Pre-childhood Development Centres and prepare a work strategy, advise review and
supervise and issue instructions from time to time.
(C) Supervise the activities of the registered Pre-childhood Development Centre situated
in the administrative area of Provincial Council order a syllabus relevant to the subjects
in the Pre-childhood Development Centre revise and take decisions on principle relevant
to them.
(D) Identify the children who need special education prepare future programmes to suit
them make aware of the parents of those children and take steps to perform the required
action for the development of the children.
(E) Take decisions on the action to be taken in respect of the Pre-childhood Development
Centres which perform activities contrary to the provisions of this Charter.
(F) Find out about the appeals received in regard to the registration of Pre-childhood
Development Centres and submit recommendations to the Governor.
(G) Issue instructions to the competent authority in respect of executing the provision of
this Charter.
13. The advisory committee should prepare a syllabus to be utilized by all Pre-childhood
Development Centre of Uva Province in accordance with the guidance of the National
Education Institute and it should be activated in all Pre-childhood Development Centres of
the Province after it being accepted by the Governor.
SECTION   IV
The basic and Minimum facilities that should be there in
Standards for the Pre-childhood Development Centres
14. (1) The Pre-childhood Development Centres should consist of the under mentioned basic
and minimum facilities :-
(A) Allocating of at least 10 square feet of room in the building for a child.
(B) There should be latrine system constructed to consist at least a latrine for every
25 children.
(C) Out of the extent of room square feet of the building the doors and windows
should consist of at least 1/7 of the extent of ventilation provided.
(D) The precincts of the Pre-childhood Development Centres should be well secured
by means of security fences or security parapet walls.
(E) Maintain a first aid box on instructions of the Advisory Committee.
The duties and
tasks of the
Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
(F) A play compound should be there with sufficient room for the children to the
play in every Pre-childhood Development Centre.
(G) There should be a teaching staff according to the proporation of 20:1 in case of
general children and 5:1 in respect of special children in each and every Pre-
childhood Development Centre.
(H) The garden of every Pre-childhood Development Centre or the ground of every
Pre-childhood Development Centre should be prepared in a pleasant environment
consisting of basic sports facilities as ordered by the Advisory Committee.
(I) Should possess required furniture sufficiently and maintain them in a way to
bring about the mental pleasure of the children.
(J) There should be an appropriate place prepared to perform religious rites.
(2) A Pre-childhood Development Centre will not be established in a harmful or dangerous
environment and/or in an area where harmful and dangerous environment is present
within 100 meters of the centre.
Standards for Day Care centres
14. (2) All Day Care Centres should consist of the following basic and minimum facilities :-
(A) Allocating of at least 10 square feet of extent of room in the building for one child.
(B) There should be a latrine system consisting of one latrine for every 25 children
(C) Out of the extent of room square feet of the building the doors and windows
should consist at least 1/7 of the amount of the ventilation provided.
(D) The Precincts of the Day Care Centre should be well secured by means of security
fence and/or security parapet wall.
(E) Maintain of First Aid Box on instructions of the Advisory Committee.
(F) There should be a play compound with sufficient room for the children to play in
every Day Care Centre.
(G) Supervisors should be engaged to the proportion of 20:1 for general children and
5:1 of special children in every Day Care Centre.
(H) The garden and/or the ground of every Day Care Centre should be prepared in a
pleasant environment consisting of basic sports facilities as done by the Advisory
Committee.
(I) Should possess required furniture sufficiently and maintain them in a way to
bring about the mental pleasure of the children.
(J) There should be an appropriate place prepared to perform religious rites.
(2) A Day Care Centre will not be established in a harmful or dangerous environment and/
or in an area where harmful and dangerous environment is present within 100 meters.
The Governor is
able to order
qualifications
and standards in
Pre-childhood
Development
Centres and Day
Care Centres.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
24A
15. The Governor shall order from time to time the standards that should be followed by the Pre-
childhood development centres or Day Care Centres to enable to be eligible for registration
under the charter.
SECTION    V
Registrations of Pre-childhood development centres and Day Care Centres
16. No, Pre-childhood development centres or Day Care Centres should be established r maintained
without the approval of the competent authority of the province after the enactment of this
charter.
17. All Pre-childhood development centres and Day Care Centres maintained in the province
should be registered by the owner or the manager of such Pre-childhood development centres
or Day Care Centre according to the format indicated in sub-section one (1) here, on or before
expending three months of the declaration of this charter and the gazette notification.
18. If any manager or an owner of a Pre-childhood development centre or a Day Care Centre has
failed to apply for registration within three months after this charter is being declared as a
gazette notification such Pre-childhood development centre or the Day Care Centre should
be registered by the competent authority on application submitted with reasons which seem
to be justifiable and fair and taking into consideration the expended time and by charging and
additional fee.
19. It is required to submit suitable and genuine information and details in the application form
submitted (matters indicated in sub section 01 should be entered) by Pre-childhood
development centres and Day Care Centres.
20. (1) The registration fee ordered to be paid by the competent authority should be paid by
the applicant for registration.
(2) The competent authority shall declare from time to time the periods for registration,
obtaining licenses and the relevant form and fees.
(3) The competent authority for the power to extent the time of registration obtaining of
licenses and also collect fees and additional fees for delayed periods.
21. All institutions which execute within the province for children of ages commencing from 3
years to 5 years shall be considered as a Pre-childhood development centre or a Day Care
Centre. The Day Car Centres executed for special children under the Social Services
Department and the Pre Childhood Development Centres maintained under the probation
and child care department should also have to be registered under this scheme.
22. Any Pre-childhood development centre or a Day Care Centre that is established or maintained
by any one violating or contrary to the above maintained provisions of this charter shall be
It is not possible
to maintain a
Pre-childhood
development
centre or a Day
Care Centre
without being
registered.
It is required to
apply for
registration of
Pre-childhood
development
centres or Day
Care Centres.
It is required to
charge an
additional fee
from the Pre-
childhood
development
centres or Day
Care Centres
which are not
registered within
the scheduled
time.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
treated as an offence under this charter, while such offender or misdemeanor shall pay a fine
not more than Rs. 500  (Rs. Five hundred) every month such offence is committed.
23. If and when an application is tendered for registration of any educational institute which is
not maintained under the name of the Pre-childhood development centre according to the
provisions contained in the charterby the date of enactment of the charter and in accordance
with the item 21 of this charter, the competent authority has the power to refuse or reject
registration after informing the reason for such refusal or rejection.
(1) In every instance of such refusal or rejection, the reason for such refusal or rejection
shall be informed to the applicant of such owner or manager within a month of such
application has been tendered.
(2) The owner or manager of such Pre-childhood development centre can submit an appeal
to the Governor within 10 days of such refusal or rejection.
(3) On receipt of such an appeal the governor should forward it to the advisory committee
for obtaining their observations and recommendations to take a decision about the
appeal.
(4) The decision on Pre-childhood development centres taken by governor shall be the
final decision.
24. (1) A register should be maintained of all Pre-childhood development centres with the
details of the names of the Pre-schools, addresses and the names and addresses of
those who maintain such Pre-childhood development centre with any other details
decided as required by the competent authority of the Pre-childhood development
centres established by the time this charter being enacted by the competent authority
and registered under the provisions contained in the charter after the effective date of
the provisions contained in the charter and newly registered Pre-childhood development
centre after the effective date of the provisions contained in the charter.
(2) All Pre-childhood development centres of the province should be registered by the
competent authority while a number should be allocated and a certificate of registration
shall be issued.
(3) Such certificate issued should be treated and a valid and a legal document in respect of
the duties and provisions contained in this charter.
SECTION   VI
Qualifications and training of teachers of Pre-childhood  development centres
25. (1) The personnel who perform duties as teachers in Pre-childhood development centres
by the effective date of this charter should have passed at least in 06 (six) subjects
including Sinhala language and mathematics at the general certification of education in
the ordinary level held by the department of examination or should have followed a
training course in Pre-childhood development education in an institute accepted by
the advisory committee.
The Competent
Authority has
power to refuse
or reject
registration.
To maintain a
register of Pre-
childhood
development
centres which
are registered.
Educational
qualifications
that should be
completed by
the teachers of
the P re- childhood
development
centres.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
26A
(2) All teachers serving in Pre-childhood development centres after the effective date of
the charter should have passed in advanced level examination of the General Certificate
of Education held by the department of examination.
26. All teachers who serve in Pre-childhood development centres by the effective date of this
charter who have not completed the qualifications in the Ordinary Level Examination of the
General Certificate of Education held by the commissioner of exams of the Examination
Department, as indicated above within two years of the effective date of this charter or
should follow a Pre-childhood development education in a reputed institution accepted and
ordered by the competent authority and pass such examination or training course.
27. The competent authority has the power to order to relinquish or quit from the duties of the
teachers or Pre-childhood development centres who do not possess the required qualification
and who fail to acquire the basic qualifications during the required time ordered by the
competent authority.
28. (1) All teachers who are engaged in Educational duties in any Pre-childhood development
centre by the effective date of this charter should apply for registration within 6 month
of the effective date of this charter.
(2) The teachers in Pre-childhood development centres who apply thus shall be registered
in the relevant register provided they have fulfilled the qualifications according to the
provisions contained in the charter while an identity card should be issued to them.
29. All training institutions which are engaged in duties pertaining to training teachers of Pre-
childhood development centres (except the national level government institutions) should
get registered while they should obtain a certificate of registration from the competent
authority.
30. The competent authority should prepare a systematic way of work every year relevant to
teacher training in Pre-childhood development centres and submit it to the provincial advisory
committee for approval
31. The competent authority has the power to order teachers in Pre-childhood development
centres conducted by the Provincial advisory committee who do not participate in training
programmes, to preclude serving in Pre-childhood development centres and make them to
relinquish their work or post.
32. The teachers in Pre-childhood development centres should follow and participate in training
courses continuously which are scheduled according to time frames ordered by the advisory
committee.
33. The competent authority should prepare a systematic plan with the instructions for the
advisory committee for awareness of the parents of children of Pre-childhood development
centres.
Those teachers
who do not
possess required
qualifications
should get
qualified during
the time
required.
Ejection orders
can be given to
those who are
not qualified
All teachers in
Pre-childhood
development
centres should
get registered.
The training
institution of
Pre-childhood
development
education should
get registered.
Every year a
systematic way
of work should
be prepared.
Possibility to
request to
relinquish their
work and post.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
SECTION   VII
General Rules/Provisions
34. (1) If it is scheduled through this charter that orders should be made or powers should be
vested by this charter to make orders or no all matters that may be required by the
charter or in that regard, the Minister is able to make orders.
(2) Each and every order made by the Minister should be effective from the date of
publishing the gazette notification or at a later date genuinely indicated in that order.
(3) Each and every order made by the Minister and published as a Gazette Notification
shall be submitted to the Provincial Council as soon as possible for approval. Any
order that is not approved by the Provincial Council can be treated as cancelled without
being subject to any harm for the actions taken prior to such approval or cancellations.
(4) Any order treated as cancelled shall be published in the gazette as a mortification.
35 (1) The competent authority can make to execute the powers of this charter to perform
duties and tasks or matters connected and consequential thereto and the rules that are
considered as required by the competent authority as well as for the allowances paid to
the teachers and the fees collected from children.
(2) Each and every rule made by the competent authority shall be approved by the Governor
with the recommendation obtained from the advisory committee and such rules approved
should be published in the gazette as a notice
36. Anyone who seeks to fulfill the duties contained in this charter his service can be obtained
for a scheduled and limited period while an allowance ordered by the Governor can be paid.
Also on the recommendation of the advisory committee and the approval of the competent
authority an annual allowance can be paid to registered Pre-childhood development centres.
37. If the Governor or the advisory committee has given any order instruction or any guidance
the competent authority should comply to such work and if any report of document is
requested to be given the competent authority should also taken action to supply them.
SECTION     VIII
Offences and punishments
38. It shall be an offence to violate, misconduct, or breach orders or provision contained and
provided under the charter and disturb and interrupt is performing duties of persons who
have the power to effect such provisions or orders also shall be an offence under this charter.
39. Anyone who commits such offence and found to be guilty after a brief court case such
person shall be subject to a fine not exceeding to Rs. 10,000 (Rs. Ten Thousand) in valid Sri
Lankan Currency and/or a term of imprisonment a period not more than 6 months subject to
one or both punishments.
40 . No. 01 of 2009 the Uva Provincial Council Education Charter will be cancelled.
The Governor is
able to make
orders.
The competent
authority can
make rules.
The persons who
do duties and
Pre-childhood
development
centres can be
paid an
allowance
annually.
Interim
Provisions.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
28A
41. Interpretation
“Minister” - The Minister who is in charge of the subject of Education.
“Provincial Council” - Uva Provincial Council established under chapter 17A of the
constitution.
“Competent Authority” - The officer appointed as the competent authority in the charter and
officer delegated with powers to work on behalf of him.
“Advisory Committee” - Pre-childhood development centre Advisory Committee
“Managers” - Those entrepreneurs who maintain Pre-childhood development centres.
“The teachers in Pre-childhood development centres” - Teachers of both sex who teach in
Per-childhood development centres.
“Special Children” - Those who should go to Pre-childhood development centres who are
not able to see hear and who are weak physically disabled and cretins.
“Province” - Province of Uva indicated in the subsectioin 8 of the constitution of Sri Lanka
consisting of Monaragala and Badulla Districts.
“Genuine Date” - The date the Governor approved this charter.
42. If there is any different interpretation in Sinhala and Tamil versions the Sinhala version shall
be accepted as correct.
SUB SECTION      I
Pre-childhood development centres/Day Care Centres
Application for registration/establish and commence newly
F
OR OFFICE USE ONLY
1. Date of Application :—
2. Signature of the officer who accepted :—
3. The registration fee paid :—
4. The General Receipt Number :—
5. Date of Registration :—
(Pre-childhood development centres/Day Care Centres)
6. Registered/Not Registered :—
(Pre-childhood development centres/Day Care Centres)

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'16
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2011
1. The Place or locality where the Pre-childhood development centre decided to be
established :—
2. Divisional Secretary Area :—
3. Grama Sewa Officer’s Division and No. :—
4. Educational Zone :—
5. Educational Division :—
6. Is it a Pre-childhood development centre of Day Care Centre that is maintained at
present :—
7. Is it a newly established Pre-childhood development centre or Day Care Centre :—
8. Name of the Pre-childhood development centre or Day Care Centre :—
9. Name and Address of the Owner/Administrative Board/V oluntary Organization of Pre-
childhood development centre or the Day Care Centre :—
10. Proposed date of the establishment or commencing date of the newly establishing Pre-
childhood development centre or the Day Care Centre :—
11. Number of Squares feet of the extent of the floor of rooms of the building of the Pre-
childhood development centre of Day Care Centre :—
12. The expected or the number of students engaged at present :—
13. Details of the teachers who are engaged at present/expected to be engaged in the Pre-
childhood development centre or the Day Care Centre :—
Name Address Educational Qualifications
i.
ii.
iii.
14. Number of assistants engaged in Pre-childhood development centres or Day Care
Centre at present :-
15. The medium or media in which the Pre-childhood development centre is being conducted
and maintained :-
16. Are there facilities of Drinking Water/Electricity and latrines  :-
I should certify that the above details are true and correct.
……………………………………
Signature of the Applicant.
Date …………………………………… Name ……… ……………………………
06-15/3
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.