

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of  February 19, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 23.02.2016)
RISHAD BATHIUDEEN FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Abdullah Mahrooff M. P.
for Trincomalee District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RISHAD BATHIUDEEN FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association  called and known as the
“Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation” has heretofore been formed
in the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected  with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage  to grant
such application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Rishad Bathiudeen
Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the  “Rishad
Bathiudeen Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted  members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
(hereinafter referred to as the  “Corporation”)   with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of  the  “Rishad Bathiudeen
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and  use a common
seal and  alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
Co-operation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Rishad
Bathiudeen
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children to enable them to continue their
education, encourage them to attend school regularly,
assist them in their educational, cultural and scientific
activities and to establish permanent and mobile
libraries ;
(c) to promote and protect Human rights, Human values,
fundamental freedoms democracy and pluralism in
Sri Lanka ;
(d) to promote sustainable development in rural and
backward areas by utilizing the natural resources that
is available in those areas ;
(e) to promote agricultural and fishery sectors by
introducing latest technologies to obtain maximum
benefits ;
(f) to establish information technology centers island
wide for the advancement of scientific studies and
development of the country ;
(g) to strengthen the Institutes of higher studies,
encourage research and scholarship for the
advancement of higher education ;
(h) to promote social and cultural activities for enriching
different ethnicities and for integrating the Sri Lankan
communities ;
(i) to empower women, children and the marginalized
groups such as persons with disabilities, the poor etc. ;
(j) to promote and encourage humanitarian, sports,
literary, spiritual activities ;

<!-- page 4 -->

Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(k) to assist in the development of educational, religious,
cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities without any
reference to race, religion or caste and to conduct
various festivals and competitions ;
(l) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elder and established
and maintain Children’s homes and day care centers
for children and elders ;
(m) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the  rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation  be administered by a Board of
Directors  consisting of  Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and
other eight members elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honorable
Rishad Bathiudeen shall be the Chairman of the Board of
Directors for life and thereafter, one of his family members
shall become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such a new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts,  matters and things what
so ever as are  necessary or desirable for the promotion, or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donation or any other assistance
from persons or organizations in Sri Lanka or abroad, to
invest its funds, to erect any building or structures on any
land held by the Corporation and to engage, employ and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any General Meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less  than two-thirds of the members present and voting
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the  Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
30
Rule of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 6 -->

Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be  amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall  be subject to
the  rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one, or more
Banks as the Board of Directors  shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of scuh membership fees as may by
due from him to the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30 Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Corporation
may hold
preperty
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the Centre.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their  rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among  their members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be porvided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act  and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Rishad Bathiudeen Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .