

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
627
627
¡â¤ 1,449 _ 2006  °Œ¾ł 09  Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.06.09
No. 1,449 – FRIDAY,  JUNE  09,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 630
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 632
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th June, 2006 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 02nd June, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,448 of 02.06.2006 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
628
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
629
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B2—B 079209

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
630
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  VOLUNTEER AIR  FORCE
Airmen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka V olunteer Air Force for Airmen
in the Operator Motor Transport (Driver) Trade :—
1. (a) Educational Qualification :
Operator Motor Transport.— Should have passed the eight
standard. It is essential to be in possession of a valid driving licence
to drive heavy vehicles with prior driving experience. Been in
possession of higher qualifications will be considered as an advantage.
(b) Other Requirements.— Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka V olunteer Air Force :
(1) Nationality.— Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(2) Age.—  Not less than 18 years of age and not more than 30
years as at 30th June, 2006,
(3) Height.— 5' 4" and above,
(4) Civil Status.— Married or Unmarried.  (Unmarried Airmen
are not allowed to marry until the completion of a period
of one year from the date of Enlistment.
2.  Candidates who do not possess the required educational
qualifications or fulfill the requirements of paragraph 01 (a) and (b)
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height and
vision will be measured. Candidates whose age, height and educational
qualifications are not according to the standard specified in the Gazette
Notification will not be interviewed.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievement in
the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :
(a) Airmen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air
Force Regulations and orders with effect from the date of
enlistment ;
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat. They will be
required to perform combat duties and any type of duty,
day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any
part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.— Selected candidates will be enlisted in
the rank of Aircraftman (Third Class) in the V olunteer Air Force and
shall be required to serve for a continuous period of five years.
Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for further service
on completion of five years of service.
6. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay Rates.— The scale of consolidated pay applicable to
Airmen shall be as follows :
Aircraftman - Rs. 1,44,240–7X1,440–10X1,800=
    Rs. 172,320 per annum ;
Leading Aircraftman  - Rs. 148,380–4X1,440–11X1,800 =
Rs. 173,940 per annum ;
Corporal - Rs. 152,400–1X1,440–13X1,800 =  Rs. 177,240
per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to airmen. Increments in promotions
will be based in consideration to the service period, good
conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the
appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances.— Rs. 1,000 per month.
(2) Hardlying Allowance.— Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Enhanced allowance.— Rs. 1,900/= per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(4) Enhanced allowance.— Rs. 2,400/=  per month for those
serving in operational areas (Rs. 80/= will be paid for
each working day at only Jaffna Peninsula).
(5) Ration Allowance.— Rs. 5,649.75 per month for living
out Airmen. (Free messing for living-in Airmen).
(6) Accommodation.—  Free for personnel living-in.
(7) Travelling.— Three sets of Holiday Railway warrants
per year (For Airmen, Wife and Children). One set of
Railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of
bus fare for living-in Airmen.
(8) Disturbance Allowance.— When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(9) Good Conduct Badge Pay.— Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(10) Uniform upkeep allowances.— Rs. 170 per month.
(11) Medical Facilities.— Provided through Air force expense
for Airmen and their Families.
(12) Facilities for free travel to work in S.L.T.B. buses for
living - out Airmen within a radius of 30 miles (48 Km.)
from the place of work.
(13) Following Rent Allowances are payable to married
Airmen not in occupation of Government married quarters
Rs. 1,100 - Rs. 3,000 per month.
(14) Other Allowance.— Separation and Overseas, etc. will
be paid as detailed in the Air Force Pay Code.
  7. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own
handwriting in terms of the form specified below, all cages
of the application should be filled with much details as
possible. Applications should be sent by registered post
addressed to “Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force,
Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach there not later than 1200
noon on 23rd June, 2006. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked “Application for V olunteer
Airmen” on the top left corner. Application received at
Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date
and time and not in accordance with the requirement of
this notification and not in registered post will not be
considered.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
631
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of the Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if
selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when summoned for interviews or when
called upon to do so :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted) ;
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications
required ;
(3) A valid heavy vehicle driving license and documents to
indicate prior driving experience. Been in possession of a
Trade/Technical Training and / or experience (if any)
obtained from a recognized institution will be an added
advantage ;
(4) Two recent certificate of character. One of these should
be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from  the responsible person who has the know of
the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (if employed) ;
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadeting,
etc..
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when required to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original documents or copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals
of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
08. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board. Interviews will be held in Sri Lanka Air
Force, Ekala. Such candidates will be informed individually of the
date and time.
09. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
without the National Identity Card.
10. Candidates likely  to  be suitable  following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before and Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to merit order.
11. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so
by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of
such candidates.
12. Any statement in the application, which is found to be incor-
rect, will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the inaccu-
racy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered
after the selection.
13. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
G. D. P
ERERA ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR VOLUNTEER AIRMEN IN THE
SRI  LANKA  VOLUNTEER  AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :————.
(According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number. :————.
03. Postal Address :————.
04. Permanent Address :————.
05. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :————.
06. District :————.
07. Electorate :————.
08. G.S. Division :————.
09. Telephone Number :————.
10. Date of Birth :————.
Age as at 30th June, 2006 :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
11. Civil status :————.
12. Height :————, Feet :————, Inches :————.
13. Highest Educational qualifications standard achieved :–——.
14. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination :
  Year Index No. Subject Passed Grading
15. G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
  Year Index No. Subject Passed Grading

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
632
16. (a) Any special qualifications for the post :————.
(Eg.— Technical, Training and Experience, etc.)
(b) Trade Experiences :
Driving Period Head of Department and Address
Experience
17. Details of special achievements in sports :————.
18. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :————.
19. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police Service,
give details :————.
20. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court? If so, give details :————.
21. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name  Description Permanent Address
22. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are, to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airmen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published in
the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
06-203
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
CAREER  DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAMME
Ministry of Education
DISTANCE EDUCATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(DEMP)
FUNDED  BY  ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT  BANK
TRAINING  PROGRAMME  LEADING  TO  GAINFUL  EMPLOYMENT  OF  YOUNG  NEEDY
G. C. E. A/L COMPLETERS
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Citizens to enroll
with the above programme. The applicants are required to fulfill the
eligibility criteria stipulated under this programme and forward their
applications as per specimen given below :
Since December, 2003 the Ministry of Education has launched
the above project and a part of the project, funds has been allocated
to conduct short term training programmes (3-9 months) leading to
gainful employment of unemployed needy young G. C. E. A/L
Completers.
The project will place youth for above mentioned short term
training within public and private training providers who would do
tailor made semi skilled and demand driven training programmes/
courses (duration of 3 to 9 months) aiming at employment after the
training and pubilc or private institutions, companies, industries,
etc. who have labour requirement within their respective institutions
and would like to conduct “on the job” training for selected G. C. E.
(A/L) completers according to the institution’s labour requirements
and employing them after the training based on their performance
during the training period.
The project will provide funds/stipend to support the needy
unemployed G. C. E. A/L school leavers who joined to follow “on
the job” training programmes. The stipend would serve as an
allowance to cover expenses such as travelling, food etc. for the
candidates during their training period of 3-9 months.
If the trainee is selected for a “demand driven training” the cost of
such training will be borne by the project during the training period.
No monthly allowances from DEMP will be made to trainee under
this category.
Those applicants should fulfil the following criteria :
(i) Applicants’ family income should be less than Rs. 10,000
per month. (GS letter certified by DS should be annexed) ;
(ii)Applicant should have sat the A/L Examination during 2004
and 2005 but remain unemployed and should be below 22
years of age as at 31st December, 2005 ;
(iii)Applicants who have already applied to the previous
advertisement dated 3rd July, 2004 need not to apply
again for this advertisement.
(iv) Applicants who have been selected or pending selections to
Universities, Vidyapeeta and other public and private post
secondary institutions to follow full time or part time degrees,
diploma, certificate programme should not apply ;
(v) Trainees who are selected for either of the above training
should sign a bond with the Distance Education
Modernization Project against the expenses and continuation
of the respective training.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
633
17. Marital Status : Married/Single
18. NIC No. :————. (Annex copy)
19. Date of Issue :
Date :————, Month :————, Year  :————.
20. Passport No. (Annex copy) :————.
21. Date of Expiry :
Date :————, Month :————, Year :————.
22. Nationality :————.
23. Race :————.
24. Preferred Categories of Employment :
Only 5 categories can be selected. Please specify the Preference
Level (1 to 5)
Example :
Category Sub Category (Please specify) Pref.
Accountancy Auditor/Accounts Clerk 1
Tourism and Hotel Room Boys/Receptionists 2
Category Sub Category Pref.
(examples) (Please specify)
Accountancy
Agriculture and Livestock
Mechanical Production
Automotive/Building and
Construction
Computer and Information Tech.
Electrical and Electronics
Fisheries
Food and Beverages
Gem and Jewellery
Handicraft and Cottage Industry
Marine and Shipping
Metal and Light Eng.
Personal and Community
Development
Printing and Packaging
Rubber Plastics and Leather
Related
Textile and Garment
Wood Related
Tourism and Hotel
Other
Those who fulfil the above criteria are requested to forward their
applications according to the given format of this advertisement
along with necessary documents before 15th of July, 2006 to reach.
Project Director,
Distance Education Modernization Project (DEMP),
The Ministry of Education,
1st and 2nd Floors,
No. 35/10, Nawala Road,
Colombo 05.
Career Development Programme
DISTANCE EDUCATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
M INISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
APPLICATION  FOR  TRAINING  PROGRAMME  LEADING  TO  GAINFUL  EMPLOYMENT
OF  YOUNG  NEEDY  GCE A/L COMPLETERS
01. Name in Full (Capital letters) :————.
02. Permanent Address (Capital letters) :
Address Line 1 :————.
Address Line 2 :————.
Address Line 3 :————.
City :————.
2(a) District :————.
2(b) Grama Niladhari Divi. :————.
03. Telephone  :————. (if any)
04. Mobile  :————. (if any)
05. Fax  :————. (if any)
06. E-mail  :————.(if any)
07. Family Income  :————.
08. GN income certificate (GN Division and No.) certified by DS
(DS Division)  :————. (Y/N)
09. Temporary Address :
Address Line 1 :————.
Address Line 2 :————.
Address Line 3 :————.
City :————.
09(a) District  :————.
09(b) Grama Niladhari Divi. :————.
10. Telephone :————. (if any)
11. Mobile :————. (if any)
12. Fax :————. (if any)
13. E-Mail :————. (if any)
14. DOB :
Date :————, Month :————, Year :————.
(Attach a copy of BC)
15. Age as at 31.12.2005 :————.
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
16. Gender (M/F) :————.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
634
25. Indicate in which Districts you would like to undergo Training :
(List 03 Districts in order of priority)
(i) ————.
(ii) ————.
(iii) ————.
26. Educational Qualification :
(Indicate your best grading only for Mathematics and English)
G. C. E. (O/L) Subjects Grade
(Annex copy)
Year 20…… Mathematics …………
English Language …………
G. C. E. (A/L)
Stream : Commerce/Mathematics/Science/Arts (Pls. High Light)
Subjects Grades
(Annex copy)
Year 20… First Sitting 1. …………… …………
2. …………… …………
3. …………… …………
4. …………… …………
Year 20… Second Sitting 1. …………… …………
2. …………… …………
3. …………… …………
4. …………… …………
Year 20… Third Sitting 1. …………… …………
2. …………… …………
3. …………… …………
4. …………… …………
27. Training programmes and courses attended after completing
GCE A/L :
Name of Course Year Duration Grade
Institution T itle Awarded
……… ……… ……… ……… ………
……… ……… ……… ……… ………
……… ……… ……… ……… ………
……… ……… ……… ……… ………
28. Additional Information :
Language Proficiency Spoken Reading W riting
English ……… ……… ………
Sinhala ……… ……… ………
Tamil ……… ……… ………
Other ……… ……… ………
(Please specify - Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fluent, Fair,
Poor)
29. Employment History (If relevant) :
Employer Designation Duration EPF Job
Period No. Responsibilities
……… ……… ……To…… ……… ………
……… ……… ……To…… ……… ………
……… ……… ……To…… ……… ………
……… ……… ……To…… ……… ………
Other Relevant Information :
30. Whether receiving grants already (Y/N) :————. If “Y” name
of the grant and amount/month :————.
31. Physical Fitness :————. (Y/N)
(Certified by Physician)
32. Letters of Guarantors :————.
32.1 Parents :————. (Y/N) (if parents are dead pl. give
details of close relative who would agree to be a guarantor)
Name (father/mother) :————. NIC No. (If available).
address :————.
32.2 Govt. Officer :————. (Y/N) (The Government Officer
could also be a retired person) :
Name :————.Position (held) :————.
NIC No. :————.Salary Scale :————.
Address :————.Tele. No. :————.
For Office use only :
01. Ref. No. :————.
02. Date Received :
Date :————. Month :————. Year :————.
03. Officer’s Name :————.
04. Recommended/Not Recommended :————.
05. Reasons for (4) above :————.
06. Employment Prospects identified :————. (Y/N)
07. Approval Granted by :————.
08. Valid From :————.
Date :————. Month :————. Year :————.
08. Rejected Date :
Date :————. Month :————. Year :————.
09. Reasons for Rejection :————.
10. Others :————.
11. Authorized by :————.
12. Date :———. Date :———. Month :———. Year :———.
06–185

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
635
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  &  HOME
AFFAIRS
Registrar General’s Department
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR  RECRUITMENT TO
THE POSTS OF REGISTRARS  GRADE II OF THE
REGISTRARS  SERVICE
APPLICATIONS  are  invited by the   Commissioner General of
Examinations for the  Competitive Examination for  Recruitment to
the Posts of Registrar Grade II of the Registrars’ Service in the
Registrar General’s Department.
02.  Examination.- The Examination will be held  in Colombo by
the  Commissioner General of  examinations  in September,  2006.
The Public Service  Commission reserves the right  to postpone or
cancel the examination.
03. Conditions of Service.- Recruitments will be made to the
posts of Registrar Grade II on the general conditions  governing
appontments in the  public service and on the following conditions.
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable. The Selected
candidates will be  required to contribute to the  W. & O. P.
Scheme and must  furnish security occasionally decided
by the  Registrar General. The appointments are  subject
to provisions of the   Establishments Code  and Financial
Regulations. Officers recruited to these  posts on
01.01.2003 or after as new recruits will be required to
contribute to the pensions fund   on percentages fixed by
the Government from time to time.
(ii)New  entrants to the  Public Service will be on probation
for  a period of 03 years.
(iii)Officers already in the Public Service will be apponted in
an acting  capacity for   a period of one year.
(iv) All Officers who are appointed to this  post will have  to
pass  the Efficiency Bar Examination within 3 years.
(v) The service of new entrants appointed subject to a
probation period  will be terminated if   they fail to pass
the Efficiency Bar  Examination within   03 years  from
the date of appointment.
(vi) The period of service of Public Officers,  appointed in an
acting  capacity will be  extended by one year at the
discretion of the Public  Service Commission,  if they fail
to pass  the said  Efficiency Bar  Test within  three  years
from  the date  of appointment.  If the  officer fails   to pass
the Efficiency Bar Examination within the  extended period
he will be reverted to his  former  post.
(vii) On confirmation in his  appointment in the  Registrar’s
Service, an officer  selected  from  the Public Service will
cease to be   a member of the former  service and will have
no right   of reversion  to that service.
04. Salary Scale.–  TB - 3-8 - 2- Rs.147,180 - 16 x 3,480 -
Rs. 2,02,860 (P. A. C. 09/2004).
05. Age Limit.- Applicants should not be less  than  25 years and
not more than 40 years of age  on the closing  date of application.
The upper age limit will   not apply  to those already in the  Public
Service.
 06. Educational Qualifications.- Applicants should have  the
following  qualifications on 11.07.2006 :—
6.1 External Candidates.- Graduates who  have obtained a
Degree in Law   from a recognized University or Attorneys
- at - Law  who  have   passed the Final  Examination of the
Law  College.
6.2  Internal Candidates :
(i) Officers of Grade III of the Registrar’s Service of the
Registrar General’s Department who have  been
confirmed in their posts.
(ii)Following  officers of the  General Clerical Service :—
(a) Class I  ; or
(b) Officers of Class II of the  Management Assistant’s
Service who have been confirmed in their
appointment and have completed 08 years of
service and are drawing. The third salary and step
or a higher salary step than that.
(c) Officers of the  Management Assistant’s Service
who  have  obtained a degree from  a recognized
University and have  been  confirmed in their
appointment and have completed not  less  than 03
years of service.
(iii)Other  State Officers :
The officers in Grade III of the Registrar Service who
have passed the Second Efficiency Bar Examination
and have completed not less than 08 years of service in
that class and 05 years of satisfactory service preceeding
the date of callings applications.
6:3 Professional & Other  Qualifications :
(a) Proficiency in offcial language,
(b) Knowledge of the  official works  of the Registrar
General’s Department,
(c) Knowledge in English.
07. Scheme of recruitment :
(i) External Candidates ;
(ii)Internal Candidates :
(a) 75%  of the   vacancies will be filled from those who
qualify in a competitive examination conducted
by the commissioner General of examinations.
An  interview will be held   only  to scrutinize the
certificates.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
636
(iii) On seniority and merit :
25% of the  existing vacancies will be filled out of the
qualified officers as in 6-2(3) on seniority and merit. In
case such qualified offers are nor available. All vacancies
will be filled on the results of the competitive examination.
Section will ba made from among the qualified grade III
officers of the Registrar’s Service after calling for
applications by the Government Gazette notification/paper
advertisement and by a structured interview based on the
marking scheme approved by the Public Service
Commission. This marking scheme should appear in the
notice of applications.
08. Examination Fee.– The fee for the  examination is Rs.  250
and this  should  be paid  before  the closing date  of applications at
a Kachcheri or at the  General Treasury, Colombo to be  credited to
revenue Head 20-03-20-13. The  receipt should  be securely pasted
in the  relevant place   of application. The fee is not refundable,
09. Method  of application :
(a) The application should be inconformity  with  the specimen
appended to this  notice  and should  be prepared by the
candidate in his   own  hand  writing  on a paper size  a
81/2" x 12"  using both sides.
(b) The application should  be filled in the language in which
the candidate is eligible to sit for the  examination.
(c) The  completed applications for the  examination should
be sent under registered cover to the   Commissioner General
of Examinations, Department of Examinations,  Palawatta,
Battaramulla, on or before 11.07.2006. The words
“Recruitment to the Grade II posts in the Registrars’
Service” should  be clearly written on the top  left  hand
corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received  after  the closing  date  will not be
accepted.
 Note.- Candidates in the public Service/ Provincial public service
should send  their  applications through   the respective Heads
of the their  Department/ Organization.
(d) Applications which have  not  been 11.07.2006 duly
completed will be rejected. No complains  regarding
applications lost  or delayed in the post  will be  entertained.
(e) Receipt of an application will not be acknowledged.
Commissioner General of Examinations  will send the
admission cards   under registered cover to the   candidates
one week before  the date of examination.  A candidate who
does not   receive his   admission card   at least seven days
before the date  of examination should   notify the
Commissioner General of Examinations, with  the following
particulars.
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full name  of the   Candidate ;
(iii)Address ;
(iv) Date of posting the  application, Registration number
and Post Office.
10.  Admission to the Examination Centre :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all candidates whose applications have
been received. A candidate presenting  himself   for the
examination must produce his admission card to the
Supervisor of the   Examination Center. A candidate who
fails  to produce his  admission card  will not be permitted
to sit  for  the examination.
(ii) A candidate must sit for the  examination at the Examination
Hall  assigned to him. Every applicant should  observe the
general rules and regulations that should be   observed by
the  candidates for  examinations.
(iii)The issue of an admission card  to a candidate does  not
necessarily mean that  he or she has  the  requisite
qualifications to  sit  for the examination.
11.  Identity of the  Candidate.– A  candidate will be required to
prove his  identity  at the  Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor for  each  subject  he offers.  For  this  purpose any  of the
following documents will be  accepted.
(i) An Identity Card issued by the  Department of Registration
of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport issued not more  than three years prior to
the  date of examination.
(iii) Valid  postal Identity Card issued  by the  Post  Master -
General.
12. Furnishing False  Information.– If  a candidate is found   to be
ineligible, his   candidature is liable to be   cancelled at any stage prior
to or during or after  the  examination. If  any  of the  particulars
furnished by a Candidate, who  is in the Public Service, is found   to
be false with  his  knowledge or if he has  willfully suppressed  any
important fact, he will be liable to dismissal from  the Public  Service.
13. Any matter not provided for  in this   notification will be dealt
with   as determined by the Public Service Commission.
14.   Scheme of Examination :
I. Medium :
(a) Language of Examination.— Sinhala/Tamil/English.
(b) Candidates should  answer  the question papers in one
and the same  language as  indicated in the  application.
(c) Candidates are not allowed to change  the language
indicated in the   application.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
637
II. Subjects and syllabus :
(a) A written examination with  question papers on the
following  subjects:-
Subject Time Marks
(i) Registration of Documents 1.30hrs 100
(ii)Registration of Marriages,
Births & Deaths 1.30hrs 100
(iii) Office Management and
Institutional affairs 1.00 hr 100
(iv) Financial  Management 1.00 hr 100
(v) English 1.00 hr 100
(b)  Syllabus :
(1) Registration of Documents :
A question paper  to test  the candidate’s knowledge
of the following Ordinances and Acts :—
Registration of Documents Ordinance
Notaries Ordinance
Prevention of Frauds Ordinance
Stamp duty Act
Power  of Attorney Ordinance
Regulations made  under these Laws
(2) Registration of Marriages, Births and Deaths :
A question paper  to test the candidates  knowledge on the
following  Ordinances and Acts :—
Registration of  Marriages (General) Ordinance
Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act
Births and  Deaths   Registration Act
Muslim Marriage  and Divorce Act
Regulations made  under these laws
(3) Office Management and  Institutional affairs :
A question paper  designed to test the candidates
knowledge in the  following subjects :—
(i) The nature  of public administration
(ii)Organizational structures :—
Principles of good  organization;
Division of work and  allocation of tasks;
Cordination of work;
Nature of supervision; Span  of  Control;
Line and Staff relationship;
Hierachy of Authority;  Delegation of Authority.
(iii)Administrative  Process and  Decision making :
Rational decision making
Exercise of discretion; Facts  versus value
Reality  and  Evaluation judgement
(iv) Communication :
Flow of  information within   the  organization;
Importance of  information for  decision  making;
Function of communications within the   organization;
Public  relations,  Press  relations;  Relations with
members of Parliament  and  Provincial Councils
(v) Office Systems  :
Office procedure; Principles of office systems;
Standing orders;  organization charts;  work  charts;
Written specification and schedules of procedure
for  clerical work;
Work study;  Method study; Measurment of work;
Measurement of efficiency.
(vi) Records and filing  :
Essentials of  a good  filing  system;  Methods of
filing  and indexing;
Systems of classification;
Filing equipment;  Storage of records;  Disposal of
valueless documents.
(vii)Form  control  and  from  design :
Purposes  of form  control and form design.– Style,
Layout, and  quality of contents, Form size  quantity
and colour; Economy in the use of forms.
(viii)Inward and   outward mail :
Procedures for handling mail, urgent letters,
Confidential letters,  Remittance through the post.
(ix)Correspondence :
Control of correspondence,  Techniques of
correspondence, Form letters Reports, Parliamentary
questions, Inter - departmental Correspondence,
Correspondence with   Members of parliament.
(x) Control of Works :
Staff inspections, Reporting  systems,  Statistical
measurement of work performance.
(xi)Control of use of office equipment :
Maintenance  and upkeep  of photocopying
machines and type - writers,  Adding and calculating
machines,  Time  Recording Machines,  Telephones
etc.
(xii)Office layout  and environment :
Maintenance of office  premises, Office layout and
office furniture and  office  equipment (Control
Procedures for  cleanliness) of  Security,  Lighting
Ventilation and  safety precautions in office.
(xiii)Functions of the  Public Service Commission and
the Ministry of  Public Administration :
Recruitment  to the  Public Service, Schemes of
recruitment, Minutes on Various  Services,
Conditions of service, Probation, Confirmation,
Increments, Promotions,  Retirements, Resignations.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
638
(xiv)Job analysis and job Evaluation.
(xv)Salary scales Allowances and the   remuneration of
workers and the office personnel.
(xvi)Rewarding Position and  Grading classification,
Merit Rating Incentive Schemes and Suggestions
Schemes.
(xvii)Selection and  Interviewing  of Personnel, Aptitude
Tests, Interviewing Techniques.
(xviii)Personal Records.— History Sheets, Appointments
and  Transfers of Personnel.
(xix)Staff Welfare Services, Pensions and Gratuities
(xx) Working hours  for different categories of Public
employees.
(xxi)Leave in the  Public Service including special types
of leave - Accident leave T. B.  leave etc.
(xxii)Overtime.
(xxiii)Loans  and advances available to public employees.
(xxiv)Security provided by Public Officers.
(xxv)Role  of Trade Unions.
(xxvi)Grievances procedure in the Public services.
(4) Financial Management :
A question paper designed to test the candidates’
knowledge in the  following  subjects :—
(i)Annual Estimates :
The annual estmates and the budgetary procedures
Supplementary estimates procedure under  FR  71,
Control of expenditure authorization of expenditure
and payment.
(ii)Contracts and Tenders :
Regulations pertaining to contracts and  tender
procedure.
(iii)Supplies and Services :
Purchase of supplies (goods) and  Services,
Procedure for requisitioning and   ordering
Settlement of supplies bills.
(iv)Control of Stores :
Systems of estimating  supplies,
Inventoring,
Inspecting Storage,
Issuing and recording  of Stores.
(v) The role  of the Public Accounts Committee,
General Treasury Auditor - General and the
Registrar General.
(vi)The votes ledgers, Monthly Summaries of
expenditure  Imprests.
(5) English :
A question paper  designed to test  the candidates ability
to -
(i) Read   and understand legislative enactments that   are
published  in Sri   Lanka  in the  English Language.
(ii)exchange ideas in the  English Language :
The  candidates who  have  obtained the highest marks
will be called  for the interview in the  descending order.
The purpose of this   interview will be only to scrutinize
the educational and  other  service certificates. No marks
will be given at this   interview. Those candidates whose
certificates are proved  to be genuine and who have
obtained the highest marks  at the written examination
will  be recruited   to these   posts.
    By order  of  the   Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of  Public Administration &
Home  Affairs.
Ministry of Public  Administration & Home  Affairs.
Colombo  07,
25th May, 2006.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME
AFF AIRS  REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT
Competitive Examination for  Recruitment to the  Posts of
Registrars Grade  II of the  Registrar Service
(Candidates are not  allowed  to change the medium of examination
indicated in the  application).
For  official use only.
                        
Medium :
(Write the relevant letter in the  cage)
(Sinhala 2, Tamil 3, English 4)
(1) (i) Last  name  with  initials  (in English Block Capitals) :——.
Ex : Mr/Mrs./Miss. SILV A A. B.
(ii)Names denoted by initials (in English  Block  Capitals):–—.
National Identity Card No.:
(2)  Full Address :
(i) Permanent (in English Block Capitals)  :––––––––.
(ii)Official  (in English  Block Capitals) :––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
639
(Candidates who  are in Public  Service/Provincial Public
Service must write their  official addresses. Any change in
address should be informed immediately.)
The address, where the Examination Admission card to be
sent :—
(In English block capitals)
(3) (i) Date of Birth :  Years :––––––––,   Months :––––––––,
Date :––––––––.
(ii)Age as at 11.07.2006 :
Years :––––––––,   Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
(Candidates who  are not in the Public service must  attach
a certified copy of their  birth  certificate).
(4) Sex:
Female - 1 (write the relevant number  in the cage.)
Male - 2
(5) Civil Status : (Write the relevant number in the cage.)
Married     - 1
Unmarried - 2
(6) Candidates who are not public officers must provide the following
information :
(i) Qualifications obtained to be eligible to sit  this   examination
under 6 : (i)
(Please attach a true copy of the educational certificate that
qualifies you  to sit this examination) :––––––––.
(ii)The institutions from  which those Qualifications were
obtained :––––––––.
(7) The following information must  be provided by  those candidates
who  are public  officers :
(A) (i) The Qualifications acquired to sit this  examination under
sec. 6 : 2 : (I), (II) and (III) :
(ii)Particulars of institutions  from  which  such  Qualifications
were  acquired :
Name of Department Position heldFrom To Duration
(B) (i) Service/Post :––––––––.
(Note : State the post  fully and clearly as  (G.C.S. Grade I)
(ii)Monthly Consolidated salary as at 11.07.2006 :––––––––.
(iii) Total period  of service under Government as at 11.07.2006
:––––––––.
(8)
Upper  Corner portion of the cash receipt should
be pasted here securely.
(9) Certificate of the Candidate:
I certify  that to the   best of my knowledge and belief  all the
information given  in this  from are true and I have  affixed  cash receipt
No. ........... dated ......... being the payment of the   examination fee.
I also agree to be bound by the   rules  governing   examinations
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature before
after the examination. If I am   found to be ineligible  for this
examination  and to dismissal from my post  without compensation
if  it is revealed after the appointment.
–––––––––,
Signature of the  Candidate.
Date :–––––––.
Attestation
I do hereby certify that  Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................
who is an officer of my office / and  is personally known to me
signed before me  on .................... 2006.
––––––––––,
Signature of Attesting  Officer.
Name :–––––––,
Designation :–––––––,
Address :–––––––.
(In case  of Government servants, the  signature can be attested by
the Head  of Department or the  revevant Staff Officer. In case of
external candidates signature can be attested by any one of the
following :-
A  principal  of an approved  school, a retired Principal of such
school, Justice of the Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney - at
- law  an  officer of the  public  or Local  Government  Service drawing
an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 160,440 or over   Notary  Public
a Chief priest a Priest in charge of a religious institution.
Certificate  of the  Head of Department
I certify that  Mr./Mrs./Miss   ..................... is  employed  in this
Department  and that  his/her  work and conduct are satisfactory.
He/She  fulfils  the requirement stated in the relevant notification
calling for  applications for this   examination.  No penalty whatsoever
has  been imposed on him/her other   than a warning. He/She  can/
cannot be released  from   sevice if selected.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head  of the  Department.
Date :–––––––,
Name and Designation :–––––––,
Address :–––––––,
Telephone No. :–––––––.
Official Stamp :———–.
06-338

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
640
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED AT TECHNICAL COLLEGES — 2006/2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses conducted in Technical Colleges appearing in this Gazette Notification.
Students for admission will be selected from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit, and the place available in each
course.
02.  The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance with the
“ Specimen Application Form ” given in this Notification as specified in item 12 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10 stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Principal of the respective Technical College to which admission is sought to reach him on or before 2006.06.23
Applicants are advised not to submit applications to this Department or to any officer’s official or personal addresses.
03.  The top left-hand corner of the envelope should be marked with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
    e.g.—National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship Course  ETC 05.
04.  Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05.  Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully with the Name and Code Number of the Course, College in which
the course to be followed and the Medium of Instruction of the Course correctly. Requests made subsequently to change the College, Course
or Medium of instruction will not be considered under any circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged from all those following Part Time and evening Courses in the following manner :
(i) Part Time/Evening Certificate Courses (more than one year) Rs. 2,000 per year ;
(ii)Part Time/Evening one year and Short Term Courses less than one year Rs. 1,500 per course.
07.  Attention of all candidates is invited to the Schedule of Courses appended at the end of this Notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges where the courses are conducted and medium of instruction. The
addresses of Technical Colleges where the courses are available are shown in the List of Technical Colleges.
08.  A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these colleges should :—
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii)have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude test and/or an interview.
10.  Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the interview will be deemed disqualified.
11.  Subject to a maximum of Rs. 450 a month a stipend  of Rs. 20 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.
About 600 Full Time Day Course students from low income families are paid  a bursary of Rs. 2,500 per year.
12.  The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using separate application forms.
D
R . H. L. OBEYESEKERA ,
Director-General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P.O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
641
LIST OF  TECHNICAL    COLLEGES
Serial
No. Technical College Address District
01. Sri Lanka Technical College Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02. Galle Technical College Kaluwella, Galle G alle
03. Kandy Technical College Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04. Jaffna Technical College Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05. Badulla Technical College Greenland Drive, Badulla B adulla
06. Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
07. Anuradhapura Technical College New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
08. Kurunegala Technical College Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
09. Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
10. Ampara Hardy Technical College Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
11. Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
12. Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
13. Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
14. Ratnapura Technical College Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
15. Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16. Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17. Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18. Nuwara Eliya Technical College Jayatilaka Mawatha, Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya
19. Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20. Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta, Hambantota
21. Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22. Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23. Balapitiya Technical College Wandaduwa Station Road, Balapitiya, G alle
24. Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25. Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26. Bandarawela Technical College Wewatenna, Bandarawela B adulla
27. Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28. Gampaha Technical College Werallawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29. Trincomalee Technical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30. Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31. Matale Technical College M.C. Road, Matale Matale
32. Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33. Medagama Technical College Medagama Monaragala
34. Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35. Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36. Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
SPECIMEN   APPLICATION   FORM
APPLICATION  FOR  ADMISSION  TO  TECHNICAL  COLLEGES — ACADEMIC YEAR  2006
For Official use only                        
(Applications must be directed to the Principal of the relevant Technical College, Addresses of Technical Colleges are
given in the List of Technical Colleges)
(Each Course applied for should be in a separate application form)
01. Name of the Technical College/Training Centre : ———————.
02. Name of the Course : ———————. (Full Time Day/Evening/Part Time)
Medium : ———————. Code No. : ———————.
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials : ———————.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
642
04. Names indicated by Initials : ———————.
05. Permanent Address : ———————.
06. National Identity Card No. : ———————.
07. District : ———————. Electorate : ———————.
Grama Niladhari Division : ———————.
08. Date of Birth : ———————.
Age as at 01.01.2006 :
Years : ——————— , Months : ——————— , Days : ——————— .
09. Male/Female : ———————.
10. Educational Qualifications :
  (A) G.C.E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts) :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
  (B) G.C.E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G.C.E. (A/L) sittings : ———————.
(D) Highest Grade/Year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
Grade : ———————. Year : ———————.
11. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
(To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement)
11.1 Applicant’s Name : ———————.
11.2 Post held at present and the Date of Appointment to the Post : ———————.
If self employed, the type of employment : ———————.
11.3 Work place and its address : ———————.
11.4 Employee Provident Fund No. : ———————.
Employee Trust Fund No. : ———————.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office.
11.5 Name of the Employer : ———————.
11.6 Designation : ———————.
11.7 Signature : ———————. Official Seal :
11.8 Date : ———————.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
643
    12. Applicant’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge, and I have obtained the qualifications
required for the course applied for. Further I agree with the Scheme of Selection of students to Technical Colleges and to accept the decision
of the Director-General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
———————.
Applicant’s Signature.
Date : ———————.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10
should be affixed here and
cancelled by signing on it.
THE SCHEDULE OF COURSES CONDUCTED IN TECHNICAL COLLEGES — 2006/2007
Engineering Technician Studies Courses
FULL  TIME  COURSES
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
01 ETB03 National Diploma in 1. Should possess at least Six subjects including Sinhala Medium :
  Agriculture Agriculture, with four Credit passes in one sitting, Dambulla, Kuliyapitiya
at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination. The four Credit
Full Time Day passes should be for the following subjects :
  Two Years First Language, Mathematics, Science and Social
  Studies or any of the following subjects:
  Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry,
    Food Science and Food Technology, Fresh Water
    (Inland), Bio Resource Technology, Oceanic
    (Marine), Bio Resource Technology ; or
2. Should possess at least Three Ordinary passes in
one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination. The
subjects should be any three of the following :
Biology, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry, Physics,
Agriculture.
3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2006.
02 ETC01 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notEnglish Medium :
  Industrial Technicians more than two sittings with four Credit passes Kandy, Ratmalana
  (Civil Engineering) including Science, Mathematics, Medium
Language and English Language at least five (5)
Full Time Day subjects should be passed in one sitting ; or
  Two Years 2. Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ; or
3. Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Methematics at G.C.E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
4. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2006.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
644
03 ETC02 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notEnglish Medium :
  Industrial Technicians more than two sittings with four Credit passes Ratmalana, Kandy
  (Electrical & Electronic including Science, Mathematics, Medium
  Engineering) Language and English Language at least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ; or
Full Time Day 2. Merit pass in any National Certificate in
  Two Years Engineering Craft Practice - 2 year course ; or
3. Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
4. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2006.
04 ETC03 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notEnglish Medium :
Industrial Technicians more than two sittings with four Credit passes Ratmalana, Kandy
(Mechanical including Science, Mathematics, Medium
Engineering) Language and English Language at least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ; or
Full Time Day 2. Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Two Years Engineering Craft Practice - 2 year course ; or
3. Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an Aptitude Test
4. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2006.
05 ETC05 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notSinhala Medium :
Engineering more than two sittings. Ampara, Anuradhapura,
Draughtsmanship The Six (6) subjects should be :      Badulla, Balapitiya,
 (a) Sinhala/Tamil/English ;     Bandarawela, Dambulla,
Full Time Day  ( b) Mathematics and Science ;     Galle, Gampaha, Hasalaka,
One Year  ( c) Three other subjects     Homagama, Maradana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on     Ratmalana, Kalutara,
01.01.2006.     Kandy, Matale,
    Nuwaraeliya, Matara,
  Beliatta, Kurunegala,
 Kuliyapitiya,
 Polonnaruwa,
    Monaragala,Ratnapura,
  Kegalle, Warakapola
Tamil Medium :
  Maradana, Jaffna,
  Batticaloa, Vavuniya,
  Sammanthurai,
  Trincomalee
06 ETB02 National Diploma in 1. Passes in Six (6) subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) English Medium :
  Jewellery Design and examination in not more than two sittings. Maradana
  Manufacture (Preference will be given to candiates who have
passed in Art, Metal Work, Wood Work, Maths
Full Time Day and English) and
  Two Years Passes in Two (02) subjects at the  G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2006.
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 19 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
645
07 ETC 07 National Certificate in 1. Passes in Four (4) subjects at G.C.E. (O/L) Sinhala Medium :
  Jewellery Manufacture Examination in one sitting ; or should have passed Maradana, Galle, Beliatta
  Year 9 and experience in the relevant field
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Tamil Medium :
Full Time Day 01.01.2006 Batticaloa
  One Year
08 ECC 40  Certificate in 1. Should have passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination ; Sinhala Medium :
Landscaping for Junior or Galle, Kandy,
Supervisors Have passed the National Certificate in Kegalle,
Landscaping Technology crafts level III course Kurunegala
conducted in any of the V ocational Training
Full Time Day Centres attached to VTA
One year 2. Age should be between 18 and 35 years as on
01.01.2006. Preference will be given to those below
25 years.
09 ETC 04 *National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Technology four (04) credit passes including Science, Mathematics Galle, Kandy, Badulla,
(Quantity Surveying) and Medium Language in one sitting. Should Anuradhapura, Kurunegala,
have at least an Ordinary Pass for English Language. Ratmalana, Ampara,
Preference will be given to the candidates those Matara, Ratnapura,
Full Time who have followed Pure Maths/Applied Maths or Warakapola, Beliatta,
One year Combined Maths and/or a Hard Technology subject Dambulla, Bandarawela,
in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination Gampaha, Weerawila
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2006
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Batticaloa
PART  TIME  COURSES
10 ETC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Civil not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
Engineering) Six (06) subjects should be : Homagama, Kalutara,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language K andy, Hasalaka,
Part Time Three years ( b) Mathematics and Science Dambulla, Nuwara
(c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualifications Eliya, Galle, Balapitiya
(Restricted to those Matara, Beliatta,
employed in the 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006 Ampara, Gampaha,
relevant field) Trincomalee, Badulla,
Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura,
Monaragala,
Ratnapura,
Kegalle, Warakapola,
Embilipitiya
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
646
11 ETC 02.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Electrical not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
and Electronic Six (06) subjects should be : Homagama, Kalutara,
Engineering) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language K andy, Galle
(b) Mathematics and Science Matara, Kurunegala,
Part Time Three years ( c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualification ; Anuradhapura,
  or Badulla, Ratnapura,
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Kegalle, Warakapola,
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 years - Electrician Gampaha, Balapitiya
relevant field) course or Radio, TV and Electronics course conducted
at Technical Colleges under the Department of
Technical Education and Training Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006 Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya
English Medium :
Maradana
12 ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Mechanical not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
Engineering) Six (06) subjects should be :- Homagama, Kandy,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Matara, Kegalle,
(b) Mathematics and Science Warakapola,
Part Time Three years ( c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualifications ; Beliatta,
  or Gampaha
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 years - Motor Vehicle
relevant field) Mechanic/ General Machinist/Fitter Machinist Course
conducted at Technical Colleges under the Department
of  Technical Education and Training Tamil Medium :
Jaffna
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006
13 ETC 04.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Quantity not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
Surveying) Six (06) subjects should be : Homagama, Kandy,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Galle, Matara, Beliatta,
(b) Mathematics and Science Kalutara, Trincomalee,
Part Time Three years ( c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualifications.Kurunegala, Badulla,
Anuradhapura, Kegalle
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006 Warakapola,
employed in the Balapitiya,
relevant field) Gampaha
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Batticaloa, V avuniya
English Medium :
Maradana
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
* A Newly introduced Course.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
647
Engineering Craft Studies Courses
FULL  TIME  COURSES
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
01 ECC 08 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
  Engineering Craft Passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana,  Gampaha,
  Practice—Electronic not more than two sittings Kalutara, Hasalaka,
  2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Galle, Beliatta,
01.01.2006. Those under 22 years are given Polonnaruwa,
Full Time day preference Anuradhapura,
  Two years Bandarawela, Embilipitiya,
Warakapola,
Nuwara-eliya, Kegalle
Tamil Medium :
Trincomalee, Vavuniya
02 ECC 10 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana, Ratmalana,
Practice-Fitter not more than two sittings Homagama, Kalutara,
Machinist Nuwara-Eliya, Beliatta,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Hasalaka, Kuliyapitiya
Full Time Day 01.01.2006. Those under 22 years are given Anuradhapura,
Two years perference Bandarawela, Gampaha,
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya,
Warakapola,
Polonnaruwa
03 ECC 13 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Embilipitiya, Ratmalana,
Practice-Industrial not more than two sittings ; Hasalaka, Nuwara-Eliya,
Electrician or Balapitiya, Beliatta,
have passed the House Wiring Course conducted in Ampara, Kuliyapitiya,
Full Time Day any V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Polonnaruwa, Bandarawela,
Two years Warakapola, Trincomalee
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Tamil Medium :
01.01.2006. Those under 22 years are given V avuniya, Trincomalee,
perference Sammanthurai
04 ECC 18 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Kalutara, Nuwara-,
Practice - Motor not more than two sittings Eliya, Matara, Beliatta,
Vehicle Mechanic Ampara,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kuliyapitiya,
Full Time Day 01.01.2006. Those under 22 years are given Anuradhapura,
Two years preference Polonnaruwa,
Warakapola,
Embilipitiya
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
648
05 ECC 02 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ; Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or Maradana, Ratmalana,
Practice – Gas and have passed the Welder Course conducted in any of Kalutara, Hasalaka,
Arc Welder the Vocational Training Centre attached to VTA. Dambulla, Nuwara-
Eliya, Matara, Beliatta,
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17  years as on Weerawila, Ampara,
One Year 01.01.2005. Those under 22 years are given preference. Trincomalee,
Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
Anuradhapura,
Bandarawela,
Monaragala, Ratnapura,
Embilipitiya, Kegalle,
Badulla, Gampaha,
Homagama,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Warakapola,
Galle, Balapitiya,
Wariyapola, Kandy,
Dehiattakandiya
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya
06 ECC 09 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ; Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or Hasalaka, Dambulla,
Practice – Plumber have passed the Plumbing Course conducted in any of Anuradhapura, Nuwara-
the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Eliya, Galle, Beliatta,
Full Time Day Embilipitiya,
One Year 2. Age should not be less than 17  years as on Bandarawela,
01.01.2005. Those under 22 years are given preference. Ratnapura, Monaragala,
Kuliyapitiya, Kandy,
Badulla, Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana, Kegalle,
Kurunegala, Kalutara,
Maradana,Warakapola,
Dehiattakandiya,
Matara, Homagama
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
07 ECC 05 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics, Science and Medium Ratmalana,Galle,
Practice – Refrigeration Language in not more than two sittings. Beliatta, Kegalle,
and Air Conditioning Anuradhapura, Kandy,
Mechanic 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Maradana, Homagama,
01.01.2005. Those under 22 years are given preference. Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Full Time Day Matara, Polonnaruwa,
One Year Bandarawela,
Ratnapura,Embilipitiya
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 23 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
649
08 ECC 06 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 : Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or Homagama, Kalutara,
Practice – Wood have passed the Carpenter Course conducted in any Galle, Nuwara-Eliya,
Machinist of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Anuradhapura,
Wariyapola, Maradana,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Kandy, Ratmalana,
Full Time Day 01.01.2005. Those under 22 years are given preference. Ampara, Hasalaka,
One Year Matara, Beliatta,
Bandarawela,
Ratnapura,
Kuliyapitiya,
Balapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Monaragala, Dambulla,
Warakapola,
Kurunegala,
Embilipitiya, Kegalle,
Polonnaruwa, Badulla
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai, Jaffna
09 ECC 14 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ; Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or W ariyapola, Dambulla,
Practice – Building have passed the Masonry Course conducted in any Anuradhapura, Nuwara-
Craftsman of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Eliya, Galle, Beliatta,
Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Bandarawela,
One Year 01.01.2005. Those under 22 years are given preference. Gampaha, Weerawila,
Ratnapura, Monaragala,
Kuliyapitiya, Badulla,
Polonnaruwa,
Balapitiya, Kegalle,
Kurunegala, Kalutara,
Warakapola, Matara,
Maradana, Kandy,
Homagama,
Dehiattakandiya
Tamil Medium :
V avuniya, Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai,
Batticaloa, Jaffna
10 ECS 21 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Aluminium Fabrication Maradana, Ratmalana,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Beliatta, Kurunegala,
Full Time Day 01.01.2005. Homagama, Matara,
Six Months Warakapola, Kandy,
Anuradhapura,
Gampaha
11 ECS 25 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Electrical Wiring W ariyapola,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Weerawila, Kalutara,
Full Time Day 01.01.2005. Pathadumbara, Matale,
Six Months Dehiattakandiya
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
650
12 ECS 26 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Motor Cycle and Scooter Pathadumbara,
Repairing 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Anuradhapura, Matale,
01.01.2005. Kurunegala, Ratmalana,
Full Time Day Dehiattakandiya,
Six Months Kegalle
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Sammanthurai
13 MCC 08 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Footwear Making Ampara, Medagama
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
Full Time Day 01.01.2006. Those under 22 years are given Preference.
One Year
14 CBT 08 Certificate in House 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Hold Electrical Pathadumbara,
Appliances Repairing 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006. Anuradhapura
Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Full Time Day
Six Months
15 CBT 10 Certificate in Building 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Painting Beliatta, Galle, Kegalle,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006. Nuwara-Eliya
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
16 CBT 13 Certificate in Machining 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Gampaha
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
One Year Those under 22 years are given Preference.
17 CBT 14 Certificate in Metal 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Fabrication Ratmalana
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
18 CBT 15 Certificate in Radio, TV 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
& Allied Equipment Maradana
Repairing 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Full Time Day
Six Months
19 CBT 19 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Automobile Painting Kurunegala
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
20 CBT 04 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Automobile Tinkering Kurunegala
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 25 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
651
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
21 MCS 08 Certificate in Furniture 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Wood Carving Kurunegala
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
Six Months
22 ECS 24 Certificate in Foundry 1. G.C.E. (O/L) in Six (06) subjects in not more thanSinhala Medium :
practice two sittings. Kandy
Full Time Day
Six Months 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
PART  TIME  COURSES
23 ECC 33.1 Certificate in Tractor 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Mechanic Anuradhapura
Part Time One Year 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna
24 ECC 20.1 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Maintenance and Anuradhapura
Repairs to Agricultural 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006.
Equipment
Part Time One Year
Business Studies Courses
FULL  TIME  COURSES
01 BSC 03 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Marketing passess in Mathematics, Medium Language and English Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Full Time Day Language in one sitting. Kurunegala, Ratnapura,
Two years Maradana, Kalutara
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on 01.01.2006.
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Sammanthurai,
Jaffna
English Medium
Maradana
02 BSC 04 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Accounting Technicians passes in Mathematics, Medium Language Maradana, Kalutara,
Full Time Day in one sitting Homagama, Kandy,
Two years Hasalaka, Dambulla,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Nuwara-Eliya, Galle,
Students who on 01.01.2006 Matara, Beliatta, Balapitiya,
successfully complete Trincomalee, Kurunegala,
this course are eligible Kuliyapitiya,
to follow the following Anuradhapura, Badulla,
courses, conducted by the Ratnapura, Kegalle,
Sri Lanka Institute of Warakapola, Bandarawela,
Advanced Technical Dehiattakandiya
Education
* Higher National Tamil Medium :
   Diploma in Accountancy Maradana, Kandy,
* Higher National Diploma Jaffna, Batticaloa,
   in Management Sammanthurai,
* National Diploma in Trincomalee, V avuniya
   Business Studies
* National Diploma in
   Business & Finance

<!-- page 26 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
652
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
03 BSC 06 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withEnglish Medium :
Secretarial Practice passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana, Gampaha,
English not more than two sittings. Should have a Credit Kalutara, Homagama,
pass in English. Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Full Time Day Beliatta, Balapitiya,
One Year (i) Competency in spoken & written English Kurunegala, Anuradhapura,
will be considered Badulla, Warakapola,
Students who successfully (ii)Candidates will have to sit a written test, if so Batticaloa, Kegalle,
complete this course decided by the authorities Trincomalee, Kuliyapitiya
are eligible to follow the(iii)Female Candidates are preferred
National Diploma in 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Secretarial Practice 01.01.2006
Course, conducted by the Preference will be given to those under 22 years
Sri Lanka Institute of
Advanced Technical
Education
04 BSC13 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Shorthand, passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Maradana, Kalutara,
Typewriting and more than two sittings Kandy, Dambulla,
Computing—Sinhala Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala Galle, Kuliyapitiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years 01.01.2006. Beliatta, Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Preference will be given to those under 22 years Monaragala, Trincomalee,
One Year Medagama, Ampara,
Pathadumbara
05 BSC14 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) in Six (06) Subjects in not more thanTamil Medium :
Shorthand, two sittings with passes in Medium Language Maradana, Jaffna,
Typewriting and and Mathematics Batticaloa,
Computing—Tamil Should have a Credit Pass for Tamil Language Sammanthurai,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years Trincomalee
Full Time Day 01.01.2006. Preference will be given to those
One year under 22 years
PART  TIME  COURSES
06 BSC 04.1 National Certificate for 1. Passes in Six (06) subjects including MathematicsSinhala Medium :
Accounting Technicians at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in two sittings.Kurunegala
Part Time Two years 2. Age should not be less than 18 years as on 01.01.2006
(Resctricted to  employees
in an office of a Recognized
Firm, Government
Department/Corporation
or Local Authority or any
other Recognized Institute).

<!-- page 27 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
653
07 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) in Six (06) subjects in not more thanTamil Medium :
Shorthand, Typewriting two sittings with passes in Medium Language and Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
and Computing – Tamil Mathematics, Should have a Credit Pass for Tamil Batticaloa
Language
(Resctricted to  those who 2.Age should be over 17 years as on 01.01.2006
are engaged in Stenography/
Typing or in an allied field)
Part Time One year
General Studies Courses
FULL  TIME  COURSES
01 ESC 01 National Certificate in 1. Passes in Six (06) subjects including English at theEnglish Medium :
English for Commerce, G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in not more than Maradana, Ratmalana,
Industry and Further two sittings Homagama, Gampaha,
Education Kalutara, Kandy,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Hasalaka, Matale,
Full Time Day 01.01.2006. Nuwara Eliya, Galle,
One Year Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Weerawila, Jaffna,
Students who successfully Batticaloa,Ampara,
complete this course Dehiattakandiya,
are eligible to follow the Sammanthurai,
National Diploma Trincomalee, Kurunegala,
in English Course, Kuliyapitiya,
conducted by the Sri Lanka Anuradhapura,
Institute of Advanced Polonnaruwa, Badulla,
Technical Education Monaragala, Ratnapura,
Embilipitiya, Kegalle,
Warakapola, Medagama,
Vavuniya, Bandarawela,
Wariyapola
02 MCC 12  Certificate in Textile 1. Should have completed Year 10 Sinhala Medium :
and Household Drapery Kuliyapitiya
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006
Full Time Day
One Year
03 MCS 07 Certificate in Hotel 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in Sinhala Medium :
House Keeping not more than two sittings Dambulla
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006
Six Months Those under 22 years are given Preference
04 MCC 09 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects inJapanese Medium :
Japanese Language not more than two sittings G alle
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006
One Year Those under 22 years are given Preference
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 28 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.06.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.06.2006
654
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
05 MCS 09 Certificate in Batiks 1. Should have passed Year 9 Sinhala Medium :
and Textile Printing Matale
Full Time Day Six Months 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006
06 MCS 10 Certificate in Tailoring 1. Should have passed Year 9 Sinhala Medium :
(Ladies/Gents) Ratnapura, Warakapola
Full Time Day Six Months 2.Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006Tamil Medium :
Trincomalee, Sammanthurai
PART  TIME  COURSES
07 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. Passes in Six (06) Subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L)English Medium :
English for Commerce, Examination in not more than two sittings Dambulla, Beliatta,
Industry and further (Special consideration will be given to those employed Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Education in a supervisory capacity in an Industrial, Commercial Samanthurai, Badulla,
or any similar establishment or those who were Kurunegala,
Part Time Two years employed in a similar capacity at an earlier date and Polonnaruwa, Ampara,
those who may qualify for promotion after successfulMonaragala,
completion of the Course) Medagama, V avuniya,
A basic knowledge of English is essential Embilipitiya
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2006
*Note.— Students who follow the eighteen (18) Engineering Craft Studies Courses from No. 03-20 have the opportunity to
obtain National Vocational Qualification Certificates.
06-254
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.