

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"329 - 2023 wfm%a,a ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'04'21
No. 2,329 –friday,  april 21,  2023
(Published by Authority)
PArt IV (B) — LocAL  GoVernment
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of  Sri Lanka
ImPortAnt  notIce  reGArDInG   AccePtAnce  of  notIceS  
for  PuBLIcA tIon  In  the  WeekL y  ,GAzette,
atteNtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th May, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th April, 2023.
electronic transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,.
 Gangani  Liyanage,
  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Page
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance ... ––
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
  Page 
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders  ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 248
By-Laws ... ––
 247 - B 082448 - 5,403 (04/2023)
N. B. -   Parts I:II  (A), II and IV A and IV (B) of the Gazette No. 2328 of 12.04.2023 were not published.
Note.—  (i)  Anti Corruption Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka of 31st of March, 2023.
 (ii)  National Eye Bank Trust of Sri Lanka Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 06th of April, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'21
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 21.04.2023
248
Local Government Notifications
hIkkADuWA   urBAn  councIL
Amendment to imposition of tax by hikkaduwa urban council in Part IV (B) - Gazette dated 16.12.2022 
of Democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka
it is hereby notified that permit fee on a hotel or place of accommodation registered at Tourist Board stated in page Nos. 
from 5478 to 5479 was decreased from 0.5% to 0.3% under decision No. 3 (1) at special Sabha meeting of Hikkaduwa Urban 
Council on 13.12.2022. Accordingly tax rate stated in clause 08 of page No. 5475 is amended as 0.3%.
It is further notified that an item an item should be added as “Ayurvedic Treatments and Spa Centers” in type of 
permit in Column 1 under Serial No. 80 of page No. 5478 and the annual value in Column II should be the same. 
 Minal Sembakutti,
 Chairman,
 Hikkaduwa Urban Council.
04-230
rAmBukkAnA   PrADeShIy A  SABhA
Section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987
i  hereby notify that by virtue of Section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, as per the resolution adopted at the 
General Meeting held by Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha in Kegalle District on 08.02.2022, following roads situated within 
the area of authority of Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha, are belonged to Sabha in terms of the written consent given by 
relevant land owners, as per the corresponding length and width of the roads.
It is further notified that, if any objection is raised by the General public to widen these roads, authority has granted 
to forward me with two duplicates together with the document indicating the reasons for objections within 30 days from the 
date on which this notice is published in the Gazette Notification. If no objection is raised within such period, subsequently 
above roads are declared as a property belonged to Pradeshiya Sabha and maintained as per the corresponding length and 
width of the roads. 
 E. M. A. N. B. Handagama,
 Chairman,
 Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha
At Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana,
On 18th, February, 2022.
Road Description :-
Length :- 176.5m Width:- 3.65m
Name of Road:- Ihalanga Road
Grama Niladhari Division:- Narambedda West
The Start:- Close to land of Hitinawatta
The End:- Kahawatte Kumbura
Ihalanga Road starting close to land of Hitinawatta alias Denata Parana Gedarawatta claimed to R. R. Amarawathi 
Chandrasiri and bound on the left by the lands of Hitinawatta alias Denata Gedarawatta claimed by R. R. Amarawathi 
Chandrasiri, Ihalanga Kumbura claimed by P. S. G. Pushpalatha Menike.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'21
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 21.04.2022
249
And bound on the right by the lands of Mudunapita Hena claimed by Pathmini Perera, Ihalanga Kumbura alias 
Kahawatte Kumbura claimed by R. R. Chandrasuriya, Ihalanga Kumbura claimed by P. S. G. Pushpalatha Menike.
Road Description :-
Length :- 56.74 Meters Width:- 3.05 Meters
Name of Road:- Watahapotha Kotapugalahena Road;
Division:- Udagaladeniya;
The Start:- Close to land of S. M. U. S. Bandara;
The End:- Close to land of S. M. Kalyanawathi Menike.
Watahapotha Kotapugalagawahena Road starting close to land of S. M. U. S. Bandara Watahapotha 
Kotapugalagawahena and bound on the right by the lands of Watahapotha Kotapugalahena claimed by S. M. U. S. Bandara, 
Thelabugahamadawatta claimed by S. M. Karunathilaka Bandara.
And bound on the right by the lands of Watahapotha Kotapugalagawahena claimed by S. M. U. S. Bandara.
Road Description :-
Length :- 93 Meters Width:- 3 Meters
Name of Road:- Six lane of Bodirajarama Mawatha;
Division:- Mottappuliya;
The Start:- Close to land of D. R. A. Godamune of Bodirajarama Mawatha;
The End:- Close to land of R. G. Senanayaka of Nikagollawatta.
First lane of Bodirajarama Mawatha starting close to land of D. R. A. Godamune of Bodirajarama Mawatha and 
bound on the left by the lands of Udahamullehenawatta claimed by D. R. A. Godamune, Udumullehenawatta claimed by H. 
R. Anil Rathnayaka, Nikagollawatta alias Ayiththiyagalawatta claimed by R. G. Senanayaka.
And bound on the right by the lands of Udumulla Hena Denata Watta claimed by M. B. M. L. B. B. Dissanayaka, 
Udumullahena Denata Watta claimed by G. Ranaweera Udumullahena Denata Watta claimed by R. S. S. Gunasekara.
Road Description :-
Length :- 69.85 Meters Width:- 3 Meters
Name of Road:- Second lane of Bodirajarama Mawatha;
Division:- Mottappuliya;
The Start:- Bodirajarama Mawatha;
The End:- Wetakeyapotha Land.
Road to Second lane of Bodirajarama Mawatha starting close to land of M. P. G. S. Manjula Rajapaksa of 
Bodirajarama Mawatha, and bound on the right by the lands of Udakevita Kumbura claimed by M. G. A. S. De Mallika.
And bound on the right by the lands of Wetakeyapotha claimed by M. G. G. S. Manjula Rajapaksa.
Road Description :-
Length :- 128.6 Meters Width:- 3.65 Meters

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'21
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 21.04.2023
250
Name of Road:- Road of fourth Lane, Bogahatenna;
Division:- Thaldewa;
The Start:- Close to land of H. P. Sugath Dammika Weerasingha of Bogahatennawatta;
The End:- Close to land of W. R. Deepthi Bandara.
Fourth lane of Bogahatenna starting close to land of H. P. Sugath Jagath Dammika Marasingha, Bogahatenna 
of Rambukkana Hangawela Road, and bound on the left by the lands of Bogatennawatta Lot No. 02 claimed by Malinda 
Suresh Kumara Wimalaweera, Bogahatennawatta Lot No. 05 claimed by H. P. Premarathna, Bogahatennawatta Lot No. 08 
calimed by G. D. Chamila Wasanthi No. Bogahatennawatta Lot No. 11 claimed by W. G. Sumanasekara and W. G. Janith 
Madushanka, Bogahatennawatta Lot No. 16 claimed by K. D. Manoj Chanaka Abeywardana, Bogahatennewatte Lot No. 17, 
claimed by W. G. Wimalasuriya, Bogahatennawatta Lot No. 18 claimed by D. G. Podi Menike, Bogahatennawatta Lot No. 
20 claimed by Damayanthi Nilwala.
And, bound on the right by the lands of Bogahatennawatta, Lot No. 03 claimed by M. P. Sugatha Dahammika 
Marasingha, Bogahatennawatta Lot 04 claimed by K. P. M. R. Ranasingha, Bogahatennewatta claimed by Lots No. 07, 12, 
15 claimed by H. P. Premarathna, Bogahatennewatta Lot No. 25, claimed by A. M. Kanthi Chandrawathi, Bogahatennewatta 
Lot No. 24 claimed by B. K. D. Indika Rohan Abeywardana, Bogahatennewatta Lot No. 23, claimed by S. B. Gunarath 
Menike, Bogahatennawatta Lot No. 21 claimed by W. R. Deepthi Bandara.
Road Description :-
Length :- 256 Meters Width:- 3 Meters
Name of Road:- Kurudiyawalahena Road;
Division:- Mangalagama;
The Start:- Close to land of J. A. G. L. of Colombo Kandy Road (Belonged to Mangalagama Division);
The End:- Close to land of E. R. Nishantha Weerasingha.
Kurudiyawalahena Road starting close to land of J. A. G. A. Lal of Colombo Kandy Road (Belonged to Mangalagama 
Division) and bound on the left by the lands of Kurudiyawalahena claimed by J. A. G. A. Lal, Heendeniya Hena, Wella Hena, 
Athumadihena claimed by Mahesh Kaushallya Mangalagama, W. A. S. Nilanjana Wijesingha.
And, bound on the right by the lands of Kurudiyawalahena claimed by A. G. A. Lal, Kurudiyawalahena claimed by  
A. R. Nishantha Gamini, Kurudiyawalahena claimed by H. M. K. R. Saman Kumara Herath, Kurudiyawalahena claimed 
by H. G. Darsani Roshika Hapugahawatta, Kurudiyawalahena claimed by A. J. A. Prasanna Kumara Jayasundara, 
Anguruwadolahena claimed by R. M. Dilani Chandrasekara, Anguruwadolahena claimed by J. A. Sirisena, Anguruwadolahena 
claimed by H. P. Niroshan Sampath Wimalasena, Anguruwadolahena claimed by Y . G. Jayasingha, Anguruwadolahena 
claimed by W. G. Upul Priyantha Wanasingha and R. M. Ramani.
04-235/1
rAmBukkAnA   PrADeShIy A  SABhA
Section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987
i  hereby notify that by virtue of Section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, as per the resolution adopted at the 
General Meeting held by Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha in Kegalle District on 08.03.2022, following roads situated within 
the area of authority of Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha, are belonged to Sabha in terms of the written consent given by 
relevant land owners, as per the corresponding length and width of the roads.
It is further notified that, if any objection is raised by the General public to widen these roads, authority has granted 
to forward me with two duplicates together with the document indicating the reasons for objections within 30 days from the 
date on which this notice is published in the Gazette Notification. If no objection is raised within such period, subsequently 

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'21
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 21.04.2022
251
above roads are declared as a property belonged to Pradeshiya Sabha and maintained as per the corresponding length and 
width of the roads. 
 E. M. A. N. B. Handagama,
 Chairman,
 Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha
At Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana,
On 25th, March, 2022.
Road Description :-
Length :- 129m Width:- 3.05m
Name of Road:- Aththogoda Road across Wekoladeniya Wewala;
Grama Niladhari Division:- Molagoda;
The Start:- Close to Wewala Kumbura of Road of Wekoladeniya Aththagoda;
The End:- Close to land of Kammalawatta Gala
Aththagoda Road close to land of Wewala Kumbura belonged to Kubaldiwala Ancient Temple of Aththanagoda 
Road and bound on the left by the lands of Wewala Kumbura claimed by Hettimulle Sri Siddhartha Thero, 
Liyanagahamulahenyayawatta claimed by P. Y . B. Wijesingha, Liyanagahamulahenayayawatta claimed by K. D. Ananda 
Surasena Liyangahamulahenyayawatta claimed by R. K. D. Priyanga Rajakaruna, Liyangahamulahenayayawatta claimed 
by P. Nilantha Perera.
And bound on the right by the lands of Wewala Kumbura claimed by Hettimulle Sri Siddhartha Thero, 
Liyanagahamulahenyayawatta claimed by K. D. Thilak Nandana, Liyangahamulahenyayawatta claimed by J. K. Nuwan 
Sanjaya Dushmantha.
Road Description :-
Length :- 304 Meters Width:- 2.5 Meters
Name of Road:- Henapola Ambawa By Road;
Grama Niladhari Division:- Henepola;
The Start:- Henapola Ambawa Road;
The End:- Close to land of S. P. Wickramarathna.
Henepola Ambawa by Road starting close to road of Henepola Ambawa Road and bound on the left by the lands 
of Hitinawatta, Maha Arambawatta claimed by S. P. Udayalal Wimalarathna Kumarage, Hitinawatta claimed by S. P. Sunil 
Rajakaruna, Udahawatta claimed by M. P. Ramani Padmalatha Udahawatta claimed by S. Sunil Rajakaruna, Udahawatta 
claimed by S. P. Kumarage, Eriyagahadeniye Hitinawatta claimed by S. P. Sisira Kumara Somarathna, Eriyagahadeniye 
Hitinawatta claimed by S. P. R. S. Wickramarathna, Eriyagahadeniye Hitinawatta claimed by S. P. Wickramarathna.
And bound on the right by the lands of Udahawatta claimed by S. P. Sunil Rajakaruna, Udahawatta claimed by S. P. 
Santha Kumara Jayathilaka, Udahawatta claimed by S. Sunil Rajakaruna, Udahawatta claimed by R. P. Chandrani Mallika, 
Eriyagahadeniye Hitinawatta claimed by S. P. Sisira Kumara Somarathna, Eriyagahadeniye Hitinawatta claimed by S. P. R. 
S. Wickramarathna, Eriyagahadeniye Hitinawatta claimed by S. P. Kelum Prasad Wijethilaka, Eriyagahadeniye Hitinawatta 
claimed by S. P. Wickramarathna.
Road Description :-
Length :- 206 Meters Width:- 2.43 Meters

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'04'21
Part IV (B) – Gazette  of  the  democratIc  SocIalISt  rePuBlIc  of  SrI   lanka – 21.04.2023
252
Name of Road:- Muddanawa No. 01 Road across village;
Division:- Beddawala;
The Start:- Close to land of Anura Premalal of Rambukkana Mawanella Road;
The End:- Bathkeliya Road.
Muddanawa No. 01 Road across village starting close to land of Anura Premalal of Mawanella Rambukkana 
Road, Kalugalagewatta claimed by Anura Premalal, Bogahamulawatta claimed by Y . G. Sugathapala, Hitinawatta alias 
Medagedarawatta claimed by H. R. Rathnayaka Banda, Hitinawatta claimed by Y . G. S. Sampath Kumara, Hitinawatta 
claimed by Y . G. Piyasiri.
And bound on the right by the lands of Deniya Kumbura claimed by P. G. Ganga, Deniye Pillewa claimed by Y . 
G. Guneris, Gondakkanayewatta claimed by M. B. Ariyadasa, Hitinawatta claimed by M. B. Inoka Sanjeewani Jayalath, 
Gedarawatta claimed by M. B. Ranaweera.
04-235/2
rAmBukkAnA   PrADeShIy A  SABhA
Section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987
i  hereby notify that by virtue of Section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, as per the resolution adopted at the 
General Meeting held by Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha in Kegalle District on 19.05.2022, following roads situated within 
the area of authority of Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha, are belonged to Sabha in terms of the written consent given by 
relevant land owners, as per the corresponding length and width of the roads.
It is further notified that, if any objection is raised by the General public to widen these roads, authority has granted 
to forward me with two duplicates together with the document indicating the reasons for objections within 30 days from the 
date on which this notice is published in the Gazette Notification. If no objection is raised within such period, subsequently 
above roads are declared as a property belonged to Pradeshiya Sabha and maintained as per the corresponding length and 
width of the roads. 
 E. M. A. N. B. Handagama,
 Chairman,
 Rambukkana Pradeshiya Sabha
At Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana,
On 10th June, 2022.
Road Description :-
Length :- 194.6m Width:- 3.10m
Name of Road:- Welameda Road across Kivulpana Temple
Grama Niladhari Division:- Kivulpana
The Start:- Close to land of Kivulpana Raja Maha Viharaya
The End:- Kivulpana Pansalawatta Canal
Welameda Road from Kivulpana Temple starting close to land of Kivulpana Pansalwatta and bounded on the left 
by the land of Kivulpana Pansalwatta claimed by Athulgama Rahula Thero.
And bound on the right by the lands of Sirimalewatta claimed by M. R. Upul Nishantha, Sirimalewatta claimed by 
M. A. Malani Menike, Sirimalewatta claimed by E. M. Jayarathna, Narangahadenyawatta claimed by P. K. G. Heenmenike.
04-235/3
PRINTED   AT  THE  DEPARTMENT   OF  GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA .