

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
 SRI  LANKA
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PERSONAL  DATA  PROTECTION 
(AMENDMENT)
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
[Bill No. 8]
Presented by the Minister of Digital Economy 
on 08th of May, 2025
(Published in the Gazette on March 27, 2025)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed

<!-- page 2 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2 : This clause amends section 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act, No.9 of 2022 
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of the section as amended 
is to provide for -
 ( a) all other provisions of the principal enactment except section 1 to come into operation 
on such date or dates as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette; 
and
 ( b) anything duly done under Parts V, VI, VIII, IX and X of the principal enactment 
which have already been brought into operation by Orders made under the repealed 
subsection (3) of section 1 of the principal enactment, to be valid and continue to be in 
force.
Clause 3 : This clause amends section 12 of the principal enactment by the repeal of subsection 
(2) of that section and is consequential to the amendment made by clause 11.
Clause 4 : This clause amends section 17 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of this 
section as amended is to provide for-
 ( a) the procedure to be followed in relation to a request received by a controller from a 
data subject under section 13, 14, 15, 16 or 18 of the principal enactment; and
 ( b) such request to be complied with by the controller free of charge, except in certain 
circumstances.
Clause 5 : This clause amends section 18 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of this 
section as amended is to provide for the right of a data subject to request a controller to review a 
decision of such controller based on automated processing which is likely to create an impact of 
the rights and freedoms of such data subject under the Constitution, in addition to such rights and 
freedoms under any written law.
Clause 6 : This clause amends section 19 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of this 
section as amended is to provide further for a data subject to appeal to the Authority in respect of 
a refusal to provide access to personal data under section 13 and to allow withdrawal of consent 
under section 14(1).
Clause 7 : This clause amends section 20 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of this 
section as amended is-
 ( a) to dispense with the requirement to designate or appoint a Data Protection Officer 
where the processing is carried out by a public corporation; and
 ( b) to provide for the requirement to appoint or designate a Data Protection Officer where 
the core activities of processing carried out by the controller or processor consists of 
categories of processing which results in a risk of harm affecting the rights of the data 
subjects.

<!-- page 3 -->

Clause 8 : This clause amends section 24 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of this 
section as amended is to provide for a personal data protection impact assessment to be submitted 
to the Authority only upon a written request of the Authority.
Clause 9 : This clause amends section 25 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of this 
section as amended is-
 ( a) to limit the application of that section in respect of risk of harm to the rights of data 
subjects guaranteed under the principal enactment; and
 ( b) to repeal subsections (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) thereof.
Clause 10 : This clause replaces section 26 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of this 
section as replaced is to specify the requirements to be complied with by a controller or processor 
engaged in cross-border data flows.
Clause 11 : This clause inserts new section 51
A in the principal enactment enabling the Authority 
to make guidelines in respect of the matters specified in the principal enactment.
Clause 12 : This clause amends section 53 of the principal enactment by the repeal of paragraph 
(b) of subsection (2) thereof and is consequential to the amendments made by clause 10 and   
clause 13.
Clause 13  : This clause amends section 56 by the replacement of the definitions of the 
expressions “Data Protection Officer”, “public authority” and “third country”.
Clause 14 : This clause amends Schedule VI to the principal enactment enabling the meetings of 
the Board of the Authority to be summoned by the Chairperson of the Authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

Personal Data Protection (Amendment) 1
5
15
20
10
L.D.-O 6/2025
 
AN ACT TO AMEND THE PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION 
ACT, NO. 9 OF 2022
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Personal Data Protection 
(Amendment) Act, No.    of 2025.
2. (1) Section 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act,     
No.9 of 2022 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal 
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows:-
 ( a) by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and the 
substitution therefor, of the following subsection:-
“(3) All other provisions of this Act except 
this section, shall come into operation on such 
date or dates as the Minister may appoint, by 
Order published in the Gazette.”; and
 ( b) by the repeal of subsections (4) and (5) thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of subsection (3) of section 
1 of the principal enactment, anything duly done under Parts 
V, VI, VIII, IX and X prior to the date of commencement of 
this section, shall be deemed to be valid and continue to be 
in force.
3. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended, by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof.
4. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended as follows:-
 
Short title
Amendment 
of section 1 of 
Act, No. 9 of 
2022
Amendment of 
section 12 of 
the principal 
enactment
Amendment of 
section 17 of 
the principal 
enactment

<!-- page 5 -->

2 Personal Data Protection (Amendment)
5
15
20
25
10
 (1) by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the 
substitution therefor, of the following subsection:-
“(1) Where a controller receives a written 
request from a data subject under section 13, 
14, 15, 16 or 18, such controller shall inform in 
writing to the data subject, without undue delay 
and within one month of the receipt of such 
request, whether-
 ( a) such request was granted; or
 ( b) such request was refused, with 
reasons therefor, unless the 
disclosure of such reasons is 
prohibited by any written law.”;
 (2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (1) 
thereof, of the following subsections:-
“(1
A) Where a controller requires an extension 
of the time period referred to in subsection (1) for 
reasons assigned, such period may be extended 
for a further period of two months, which shall 
not exceed three months from the date of the 
receipt of the request.
(1
B) In the event of extension of time period 
under subsection (1), the controller shall inform 
the data subject, regarding such extension, prior 
to the expiry of the period of one month referred 
to in subsection (1). 
(1
C) A controller shall inform the data subject 
on the availability of the right of appeal to the 
Authority in respect of the refusal of a request 
made under section 13, 14, 15, 16 or 18.”;30

<!-- page 6 -->

Personal Data Protection (Amendment) 3
5
15
20
25
10
 (3) in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for the 
words and ﬁ gures “sections 13, 14, 15 or 16” of the 
words and ﬁ gures “section 13, 14, 15, 16 or 18”; 
 (4) in subsection (4) thereof, by the substitution for the 
words and ﬁ gures “sections 13, 14, 15 or 16,” of the 
words and ﬁ gures “section 13, 14, 15, 16 or 18,”;
 (5) in paragraph ( d) of subsection (5) thereof, by the 
substitution for the words “an heir” of the words 
“by an heir”;
 (6) by the repeal of subsection (6) thereof and the 
substitution therefor of the following subsection:-
“(6) A request made by a data subject under 
section 13, 14, 15, 16 or 18 shall be complied 
with by the controller free of charge:
 Provided however, the Authority may 
determine by way of rules, the criteria or 
circumstances under which a fee may be charged 
by a controller to give effect to such requests.”; 
and
 (7) by the repeal of subsection (7) thereof.
5. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended, in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for 
the words “under any written law.”, of the words “under the 
Constitution or any written law.”.
6. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended by the repeal of subsections (1), (2) and (3) thereof 
and the substitution therefor of the following subsections:- 
Amendment of 
section 18 of 
the principal 
enactment
Amendment of 
section 19 of 
the principal 
enactment

<!-- page 7 -->

4 Personal Data Protection (Amendment)
“(1) Where a controller– 
 ( a) has refused to provide access to personal data 
under section 13;
 ( b) has refused to allow withdrawal of consent under 
section 14(1) or refused to refrain from further 
processing of personal data under section 14(2);
 ( c) has refused to rectify or complete personal data 
under section 15; 
 ( d) has refused to erase personal data under section 16;
 ( e) has refused a request of the data subject under 
section 17(2); or 
 ( f) has refused a request to review a decision based 
solely on automated processing under section 
18(1), 
the data subject may, appeal to the Authority against such 
refusal in such form, manner and within such period of time 
as may be prescribed.
(2) Upon receipt of an appeal under subsection (1), the 
Authority may determine whether the–
 ( a) decision of the controller to refuse to provide access 
to personal data under section 13 was lawful;
 ( b) decision of the controller to refuse to allow 
withdrawal of consent under section 14(1) or not 
to refrain from further processing of personal data 
under section 14(2) was lawful; 
5
15
20
25
10

<!-- page 8 -->

Personal Data Protection (Amendment) 5
 ( c) decision of the controller to refuse to rectify or 
complete personal data under section 15 was 
lawful; 
 ( d) decision of the controller to refuse the erasure of 
personal data under section 16 was lawful; 
 ( e) refusal under section 17(2) by the controller was 
lawful; or
 ( f) refusal to review a decision based solely on 
automated processing under section 18(1) was 
lawful.
(3) Upon receipt of an appeal under subsection (1) and 
after concluding the necessary investigations, the Authority 
shall determine within such period as may be prescribed-
 ( a) whether the appeal is allowed; or 
 ( b) whether the appeal is disallowed, with reasons 
therefor,
and the Authority shall inform to the data subject and the 
controller of such determination.”.
7. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended as follows:-
 (1) in subsection (1) thereof-
 ( a) in paragraph ( a) thereof, by the substitution 
for the words “by a ministry, government 
department or public corporation,” of 
the words “by a Ministry or government 
department,”; and
5
15
20
25
10
Amendment 
of section 
20 of the 
principal 
enactment

<!-- page 9 -->

6 Personal Data Protection (Amendment)
 ( b) by the repeal of sub paragraph (iii) of paragraph 
(b) thereof and the substitution therefor of the 
following subparagraph:-
“(iii) categories of processing which 
results in a risk of harm affecting 
the rights of the data subjects 
protected under this Act, based on 
the nature of processing and its 
impact on the data subjects, as may 
be determined by the Authority by 
way of guidelines made under this 
Act.”; and
 (2) in subsection (5) thereof-
 ( a) in paragraph ( a) thereof, by the substitution 
for the words “processing requirements 
provided under this Act or any other written 
law;” of the words “processing obligations or 
requirements, as the case may be, under this 
Act or any other written law;”; 
 ( b) by the repeal of paragraph ( b) thereof and 
the substitution therefor of the following 
paragraph: -
 “( b) advise the controller or processor 
on how to comply with the 
provisions of this Act;”; and
 ( c) in paragraph ( e) thereof, by the substitution 
for the words “data protection.” of the words 
“personal data protection.”.
5
15
20
25
10

<!-- page 10 -->

Personal Data Protection (Amendment) 7
8. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended as follows:-
 (1) in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for the 
words “Data Protection ofﬁ cer, where designated,” 
of the words “Data Protection Ofﬁ cer,”; and
 (2) by the repeal of subsection (5) thereof and the 
substitution therefor of the following subsection:-
“(5) Upon a written request from the 
Authority, the controller shall submit to the 
Authority the personal data protection impact 
assessment required to be carried out under 
this section and provide any other information 
relating to such assessment, as may be required 
by the Authority.”.
  
9. Section 25 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended as follows:-
 (1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the 
words “under this Act or any written law,” of the 
words “under this Act,”; 
 (2) by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) 
thereof;
 (3) in subsection (7) thereof, by the substitution 
for    the words and ﬁ gures “in section 24 (1) and 
where such processing”, of the words and ﬁ gures              
“in section 24 (1) where such processing”; and
 (4) in the marginal note thereto, by the substitution for 
the words “risks of harm and the requirement for 
prior consultation” of the words “risks of harm”.
5
15
20
25
10
Amendment of 
section 24 of 
the principal 
enactment
Amendment 
of section 
25 of the 
principal 
enactment

<!-- page 11 -->

8 Personal Data Protection (Amendment)
10. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby 
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-
26. (1) A controller or processor may 
engage in cross-border data ﬂ ows, only where 
such controller or processor, as the case may 
be, ensures compliance with the provisions of 
Part I, Part II and sections 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 
and 25.
(2) For the purpose of ensuring compliance 
under subsection (1), a controller or 
processor shall adopt such instruments as 
may be speci ﬁ ed by a directive issued by the 
Authority under paragraph (c) of section 33, to 
ensure binding and enforceable commitments 
of the recipient in the third country to ensure 
appropriate safeguards to the rights of the data 
subjects and remedies available under this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of 
subsection (1), a controller or processor, 
other than a public authority may engage in        
cross-border data ﬂ ows, if-
 ( a) the data subject has explicitly 
consented to the proposed cross-
border data ﬂ ow, after having been 
informed of the possible risks of 
such processing for the data subject;
 ( b) the transfer is necessary for the 
performance of a contract between 
the data subject and the controller 
or the implementation of any pre 
contractual measures taken by the 
controller at the request of the data 
subject;
5
15
20
25
30
10
Replacement 
of section 
26 of the 
principal 
enactment“Cross-border 
data flow

<!-- page 12 -->

Personal Data Protection (Amendment) 9
 ( c) the transfer is necessary for the 
establishment, exercise or defence 
of legal claims relating to the data 
subject;
 ( d) the transfer is necessary for reasons 
of public interest as de ﬁ ned in item 
(g) of Schedule I to this Act;
 ( e) the transfer is necessary to respond 
to an emergency that threatens the 
life, health or safety of the data 
subject or where his legal guardian 
is physically or legally incapable of 
giving consent;
 ( f) the transfer constitutes only a transit 
of personal data through Sri Lanka; 
or
 ( g) such processing is permitted under 
any other conditions as may be 
prescribed under this Act.
(4) A controller or processor who is a 
public authority shall not engage in cross-
border data fows in respect of the categories 
of personal data as may be prescribed under 
subsection (5).
(5) The Minister may, prescribe the 
categories of personal data for the purposes 
of subsection (4), upon a request made by the 
Authority or a controller or processor who 
is a public authority in consultation with the 
relevant statutory or regulatory body.”.
5
15
20
25
30
10

<!-- page 13 -->

10 Personal Data Protection (Amendment)
 11. The following new section is hereby inserted 
immediately after section 51 of the principal enactment and 
shall have effect as section 51
A thereof:-
 51A. The Authority may, from time to 
time, issue guidelines in respect of the matters 
speciﬁ ed in this Act, including the matters 
relating to the Data Protection Management 
Programme as speciﬁ ed in section 12.”.
12. Section 53 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended by the repeal of paragraph ( b) of subsection (2) 
thereof.
13. Section 56 of the principal enactment is hereby 
amended as follows:-
 (1) by the repeal of the de ﬁ nition of the expression 
“Data Protection Of ﬁ cer” and the substitution 
therefor of the following deﬁ nition:-
 ““Data Protection Of ﬁ cer” means, the person 
designated or appointed under section 
20 and includes a third party who is not 
directly employed by a controller or 
processor, but ful ﬁ ls the responsibilities 
under section 20(5);”;
 (2) by the repeal of the de ﬁ nition of the expression 
“public authority” and the substitution therefor of 
the following deﬁ nition:-
Insertion of 
new section 
51
A in the 
principal 
enactment
Amendment of 
section 53 of 
the principal 
enactment
Amendment of 
section 56 of 
the principal 
enactment
“Guidelines
5
15
20
25
10

<!-- page 14 -->

Personal Data Protection (Amendment) 11
 ““public authority” means, a Ministry, any 
Department or Provincial Council, local 
authority, or a Ministry or Department of 
Provincial Council but does not include- 
 ( a) a public corporation; or 
 ( b) a company incorporated under the 
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007;”; 
and
 (3) by the repeal of the de ﬁ nition of the expression 
“third country” and the substitution therefor of the 
following deﬁ nition:-
 ““third country” means, any other territory or 
country other than Sri Lanka;”.
14. Schedule VI to the principal enactment is hereby 
amended in subparagraph (2) of paragraph 6 thereof, by the 
substitution for the words “The Director-General shall” of 
the words “The Chairperson shall”.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment 
of Schedule 
VI to the 
principal 
enactment
Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency
5
15
10

<!-- page 15 -->

12 Personal Data Protection (Amendment)
Printed at the Department of  Government Printing