

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1986$9 - 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'09'27
No. 1986/9 -  TUESDAY  SEPTEMBER  27,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
VALUE    ADDED    TAX   ACT,   No.   14   OF  2002
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under paragraph (e) of  sub-section (2) of section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act,
No. 14 of 2002 as last amended by the Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2015, I , Kalyani Dahanayake,
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, do by this notification, specify the guidelines to operates Simplified Value
Added Tax Scheme effective from 01.01.2016,  as set out in the Schedule hereto.
The guidelines already issued under Gazette Notification No. 1910/2 dated April 16, 2015 are rescinded effective
from 01.01.2016
K
ALYANI D AHANAY AKE,
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue.
Department of Inland Revenue,
Colombo 02,
23rd September 2016.
Schedule
THE  OPERA TION  OF SIMPLIFIED   V ALUE   ADDED  TAX  (SV AT)  SCHEME
1. Persons eligible to be registered under SV AT
(a) The following V AT Registered Persons and the suppliers of any goods or services to such registered
persons are entitled to be registered under the SV AT Scheme.
(i) any registered person who supplies goods or services to any Strategic Development Project (herein
after referred to as “SDP”) established in terms of sub-section (4) of section 3 of the Strategic
Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, as is referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (f) of
Part II of the First Schedule to the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 (herein after referred to as
the “V AT Act”), and who is entitled to claim input tax under the proviso of sub-section (6) of section
22 of the V A T Act during the project implementation period so far as such supplies are project
related supplies which exceeds 50% of the total supplies;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
2A
(ii) any person registered under the provisions of subsection (7) of section 22 of the V AT Act including
SDP, and who is entitled to claim input tax under the V AT Act during the project implementation
period so far as such purchases are project related Purchases ;
(iii) any registered person engaged in any specified project referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph
(f) of PART II of the First Schedule to the V AT Act;
(iv) any exporter or provider of zero rated services specified in section 7 of the V AT Act, having zero
rated supplies exceeding fifty per-centum of his total supplies;
(v) any manufacturer who supplies goods (liable to V A T) manufactured by himself in Sri Lanka, to exporters
to be utilized for manufacture of goods for export, where the value of such supplies and zero rated
supplies exceed fifty per-centum of his total supplies;
(vi) any provider of value added services to exporters which results in the improvement of the quality,
character or value of any goods manufactured for export where such supply of services exceed fifty
per-centum of his total supplies;
(vii) any registered person who supplies any goods or services, to any registered person referred to in
items (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi) above, provided that the Commissioner General is, on the information
available, satisfied that the value of such supplies exceed fifty per-centum of the total supplies of
such registered person who supplies such goods or services.
(b) Any SDP referred to in item (ii) above is required to be registered under the SV AT Scheme irrespective of
the fact that such SDP is not chargeable to V AT.
2. Procedure for Registration under SV AT Scheme
Application and the information about the documents to be submitted for registration under SV AT,  are
available at the Taxpayer Service Unit of the Inland Revenue Department. Applications could also be
downloaded from the official Website of the Inland Revenue Department  (herein after referred to as “IRD”).
www.ird.gov.lk.
For registration under SV A T Scheme, the applicant should be an authorized individual. In the case of a company,
the applicant should be and authorized representative who has been approved by the Board of Directors of
the Company. A copy of such approval should be submitted. In the case of a partnership, the applicant  should
be a partner. In the case of a proprietorship, applicant should be the proprietor. Further, the applicant himself
is required to be present for obtaining the registration. However, in the case of a company, the applicant or
an authorized representative of the company is required to be present for the purpose of SV AT registration.
In the case of foreign companies, applicant could be an audit firm or lawyers’ firm.
e-registration is not applicable for the registration under the Simplified V AT Scheme.
Note :
(a) Persons who are otherwise eligible for refunds are advised to request their suppliers those who have not
registered under SV AT Scheme, to register under SV AT Scheme.
(b) The back dated registration is considered only in respect of suppliers and only for a period not more than 14
days.
(c) Any registered person referred to in item (i) to (vii) of sub paragraph (a) of paragraph 1 of this Schedule is
named as Registered Identified Purchaser  (herein after referred to as “RIP”) , and his purchase is
known as suspended purchase. All above eligible persons shall obtain the Registered Identified Purchaser
status under the above SV AT Scheme.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
3A
(d) In granting RIP status to any registered person referred to in item (i) of sub paragraph (a) of paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue (herein after referred to as “CGIR”) should be
satisfied that the  supplies made to the SDP is more than 50% of his total supplies. Further, for such purpose,
the place of business is visited for getting confirmation, as required.
(e) In granting RIP status to a registered person referred to in item (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) of sub paragraph (a) of
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, a verification is made from the computer system of the IRD as to whether the
supplies of such person referred to in aforesaid item (iv), (v), (vi), or (vii) is more than 50% of his total
supplies. Further, for such purpose, the place of business is visited for getting confirmation, as required.
(f) Any V AT registered person registered under SV AT Scheme as a supplier is referred to as Registered Identified
Supplier (herein after referred to as “RIS”) . The supply made to any RIP is known as suspended supply,
and the invoice raised on such supply is known as suspended tax invoice.
(g) Any supply of a person who is engaged with specified projects and made such supply to relevant Government
authority is an exempt supply under the Part II of the First Schedule of the V AT Act, but treated as deemed
taxable supplies in terms of section 22 (10) of the V AT Act.
(h) Any supply of goods or services by a registered person to any SDP is an exempt supply under the Part II of
the First Schedule of the V AT Act, but treated as deemed taxable supplies in terms of section 22 (10) of the
V AT Act. However, if such supply is made by any person registered under SV AT Scheme, such supply is
treated as deemed suspended supply.
(i) When an application is submitted by a person who is eligible to be a RIP, the names and the National Identity
Card (NIC) numbers of two persons (a valid Passport No. in case of a non citizen), should be mentioned
giving authority to obtain SV AT credit vouchers from the CGIR.   This authorization cannot be altered unless
a written request is made to the CGIR by the person who has signed the application. If such person is no
longer employed with the registered person, another authorized person can sign the request, but such person’s
eligibility should be proved giving documentary evidence.
(j) RIP is eligible to purchase goods or obtain services, for carrying on any respective activity which is mentioned
in item (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) or (vii) of sub paragraph (a) of paragraph 1 of this schedule suspending V AT
component. Such purchases are treated as purchases for specified purposes.  RIP is also eligible to make
standard rate supplies, but the total zero rated supplies, suspended supplies and deemed taxable supplies of
any such RIP for a calendar month should not be less than 50% of his total supplies. In such a situation, such
registered person is eligible to purchase goods or obtain services under suspended terms which are used for
its taxable supplies, and such purchase is treated as a purchase used for deemed specified purpose.  In case
where the zero rated supplies, suspended supplies and deemed taxable supplies relating to SDP are less than
50% of the total supplies of a RIP, he is required to get changed the status from RIP to RIS.
(k) List of the registered persons who are authorized to purchase under suspended terms  is published in the
official Web site of the IRD. Any RIS may refer to this information to ensure whether the purchaser is a RIP.
The list is updated at the end of each month providing information on new registrations, cancellations, made
inactive, changes in the status and the registered persons who are black listed under SV AT Scheme. Therefore,
RIS is required to refer to above information in the Web-site of the Inland Revenue Department.
(
l) In the case of foreign companies, if applicant or signatory or credit voucher collector is an audit firm or
lawyers’ firm, proprietor or partners of such firm is responsible and is legally bound for tax matters specified
in this regulation.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
4A
3. Specific Regulations to Registered Identified Suppliers
3.1 Suspended Tax Invoice and submission of Form SVAT 04
(i) Supplies to RIP can be made on a Suspended Tax Invoice  (SV AT 02) showing the V AT componed as
“Suspended Value Added Tax”. Such suspended invoice should be issued without any delay. Before making
supplies under suspended terms to a registered person, RIS is required to made sure that the person is a
RIP. The lists of RIPs and RISs have been published in the official Web site of the Inland Revenue Department.
(ii) A tax invoice should not be issued to any RIP under any circumstances unless the input is disallowable
under the provisions of the V AT Act.
(iii) The goods exempt from V AT except any supply which is treated as deemed taxable supplies made to SDP
during the project implementation period, or to any specified project cannot be supplied under SV AT Scheme.
Any such deemed taxable supply made by any person registered under SV AT Scheme to any SDP which is a
RIP, is considered as deemed suspended supply as per Note (h) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, and therefore,
such person is required to follow the regulations applicable to RIS.
(iv) Supplies should be considered on accrual basis unless the approval is obtained under section 23 of the V AT
Act for accounting on cash basis, if it is on cash basis, the time of supply is the time in which the payment
is received by the supplier. However, under cash basis or accrual basis, any advance payment received
should be declared in the taxable period in which such payment is received.
(v) RIS should follow provisions relating to the time of supply as stipulated in the V AT Act, Therefore, the
suspended supplies as well should be declared on that basis.
(vi) RIS is required to key data to the goods/services declaration Form SV AT 04, by using e-Service within 15
days from the end of the relevant month in which the supplies are made in order to get the approval of
respective RIP to get confirmed on the suspended supply and credit voucher numbers. In this regard, the
RIS is required to download the quick guide on SV AT from the Web portal of the Commissioner General.
(vii) If there is no suspended supplies made during the any month, RIS is required to tick no suspended supplies
check box and update the Form SV AT 04 unless a value to be entered as value of debit notes or credit notes.
(viii) If the given information in Form SV AT 04 is rejected by respective RIP with reasons, RIS is required to re-
submit Form SV AT 04 for the approval of RIP by using electronic filing facility.
(ix) In any case where RIS has not updated Form SV AT 04 within the given time frame, he is required to visit
IRD with Form SV AT 04 which has been signed by the authorized RIP and with the relevant credit vouchers.
(x) When there is any amendment or deletion to be made to the record which has already been updated by the
RIS and approved by RIP, RIS is required to visit IRD and get it done from the IRD officer if e-filing facility
is not available.
(xi) Separate records should be maintained to ascertain supplies on which V AT is suspended.
(xii) RIS should e-m ail Schedule SV AT 05 (Invoice breakdown) to RIP before updating the Form SV AT 04, if RIP
request to do so.
3.2. Credit Voucher  and submission of Schedule SVAT 05 (if any SVAT 05a, SVAT 05b) and SVAT 07
(i) RIS is provided a SIMPLIFIED V AT CREDIT VOUCHER (SVCV) by the RIP based on the Form SV AT
04 submitted by the RIS through the e-Service. RIS is required to collect such credit voucher irrespective
of the fact that approval is granted electronically, and keep such credit voucher with him for five years.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
5A
(ii) All credit vouc hers received by any RIS in respect of any taxable period are required to be submitted to the
IRD to prove the suspended supplies if he is requested to do so.
(iii) RIS is required to download the Schedule templates of SV AT 05, SV AT 05a, SV AT 05b and SV AT 07, and the
verifier tool from the official Website of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. RIS should ensure
that the latest schedule templates are used for preparation of schedules.
(iv) SV AT quick guide available in the official Web site of the Inland Revenue Department which is updated on
regular basis has to be followed with the e-Service procedure.
(v) Schedule SV AT 05 (and if applicable SV AT 05a and SV AT 05b) which have been prepared on the given
template in respect of all suspended suppliers are required to be uploaded only by using e-Service by RIS
himself or by using internet with the assistance of the IRD Officer on or before the end of following
month.
(vi) Schedule SV AT 07 should be uploaded by using e-Service by RIS himself when more than 20 records are to
be entered. When less than 20 records are to be entered, schedule may be uploaded or updated by using e-
Service or by using intranet with the assistance of the IRD officer on or before end of the following month.
(vii) If the value of supplies is to be reduced due to the return of supply or on any other reason relating to any
month where credit note is issued/received, the information should be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 05b
giving the value of the supplies which is disclosed in the above schedule SV AT 05 with the credit voucher
number received for that particular month. The original value of invoices and the value of credit notes
should be stated in Schedule SV AT 07. However, credit voucher is issued by the RIP on the net value.
(viii) If the value of supplies has to be reduced during the month in respect of previously declared supplies, that
information should also be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 05b of the current month with the credit voucher
number previously obtained. It should also be disclosed with the current period credit voucher number in
respect of net supplies, and the value of credit notes. However, credit voucher is issued by the RIP on the
net value. Original value of supplies and the value of credit notes should be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 07.
(ix) If there are no suspended supplies made during the month, but there are returned supplies which are related
to previously declared supplies, it should also be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 05b with the previously
obtained credit voucher number for such supplies together with the current credit voucher number received
on a negative value. The value of credit notes should be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 07.
(x)  If the value of supplies have to be increased on any reason relating to any month where debit note is issued/
received, that information should be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 05a giving the value of the supplies which
is disclosed in the above Schedule SV AT 05 with the credit voucher number received for that particular
month and relevant credit voucher relating to the supplies for which the increase of value of supply is to be
made.
(xi) If schedules SV AT 05, 05a, 05b or 07 have not been submitted in time or if there is any amendment or
deletion is to be made to the record which has already been uploaded, RIS is required to visit IRD and get it
done from the IRD officer.
3.3 VAT Return
(i) RIS should disclose V AT suspended taxable supplies in Cage C of the V AT return considering the time of
supply irrespective of the fact that a credit voucher is received or not, in respect of such suspended supply.
Respective suspended V AT amount on suspended supply should be declared in cage 2A. Any RIS who requests

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
6A
for settlement of his V AT payments on suspended supplies through a credit voucher for any calender month
should make such request in cage R2 in the V AT return in which the supply and relevant output tax are
declared. The value in R2 should be equal to the values approved by RIPs. Where there is a discrepancy
between the amount entered in cage 2A and in cage R2 of the V AT return exists, such discrepancy shall be
treated as a standard rated supply chargeable to V AT unless the relevant approval is obtained from RIP in any
subsequent month after the submission of Form SV AT 04 to the satisfaction of the CGIR.
(ii) The value for suspended supply in the V AT return should be the excess of the value of supply over the
difference between the value of credit notes and debit notes declared in Schedule SV AT 07 based on SV AT
05a and 05b.
(iii) RIS who has any exempt supply of goods or services made to any SDP should not disclose the value of such
supply in cage A2 with deemed tax in cage 1A, and deemed tax credit in cage R1, but such supply should be
disclosed as suspended supply in cage C and respective tax in cage 2A and credit in cage R2 since it is
considered as deemed suspsended supply as per Note (h) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
3.4 Refunds
RIS is not entitled to any refund on any Value Added Tax paid. However, where RIS claims a refund of any
input tax paid by him on any import on which upfront payment has been made to the Director General of
Customs or on any local purchase made from any V AT registered person so far such purchases are connected
to zero rated supply or to suspended supply made to Registered Identified Purchasers by whom suspended
credit voucher has been issued on such supply, such refund will be released after six months  from the end
of the taxable period if the Commissioner General is satisfied after carrying out a special audit on the value
addition of the business of such RIS, and if such amount is relating to the period commencing on or after
January 1, 2016.
 4. Specific Instructions to Registered Identified Suppliers - NFE Suppliers
(i) If RIS supply goods or services to RIP on Non Foreign Exchange (NFE) basis or non-cash basis on behalf
of the foreign buyer, such RIS is named as NFE Supplier. Such RIS shall issue a NFE Suspended V AT
Invoice on non-cash supply of goods or service (as specified in From SV AT 02(a)) without any delay to RIP
for such supply of goods or services, provided that :
(a) RIS shall have a delivery request from RIP to deliver such supply of goods or services. Such delivery
request should essentially contain description of purchased items, quantity and names and addresses
of foreign buyers to whom the final product is intended to be exported.
(b) RIS shall have a purchase order from foreign purchaser with the instruction to deliver the goods/
services to RIP. Name and address of the issuer of such purchase order, description and quantity
should essentially be identical to details mentioned in the delivery request in (a) above ;  and
(c) RIS shall receive foreign remittance as settlement of such supplies directly from foreign purchaser
and not from any other source ( eg. not allowed to set off  any third party liability of RIS with the
consent of foreign purchaser).
(ii) If RIS is a NFE supplier, he should receive a “NFE Credit V oucher” provided by the CGIR and issued by the
RIP who is a NFE Manufacturer in respect of such NFE supply. RIS is required to key data to Form SV AT
04, by using e-Service within 15 days from the end of the relevant month in which the supplies are made in
order to get the approval of respective RIP to get confirmed of the suspended supply and credit voucher
numbers.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
7A
(iii) RIS (NFE Supplier) shall have all supporting documents for information which contents in the said forms.
(iv) All other instructions and procedures are applied in the same manner as applicable to normal Suspended
V AT Invoice, suspended supply and Credit V oucher.
5. Specific Regulations to Registered Identified Purchasers
5.1 Suspended Purchases
(i) All purchases of raw materials, capital goods and other services from RIS used for specified purpose or for
deemed specified purpose are referred to as suspended purchases. RIPs are not permitted to purchase
under normal tax invoice from another SV AT registered person unless such purchases are identifiable as
purchase on which no input tax is allowed under section 22 of the V AT Act.
(ii) Suspended purchase should necessarily be for specified purposes or deemed specified purposes. If such
suspended purchases have been used for any exempt supply (other than exempt supply which is treated as
deemed suspended supply as per Note (h) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule) or any V AT input credit is
disallowed under the V AT Act (if suspended purchases were made as disallowable part which was not
identifiable at the time of purchase), an adjustment should be made as specified under section 22 of the
V AT Act by disallowing the benefit received through the suspension. If no adjustment has been made by the
registered person, an assessment under section 31 of the V AT Act could be issued by the Assistant
Commissioner considering such suspended V AT as disallowable input credit (decision has been taken not
to waive any penalty on such assessment). If suspended purchase have been used for taxable supplies, no
adjustement is due (as above) since relevant output tax is payable in full to the CGIR without any input tax
being deducted. Howerver, if it is proved that any suspended purchases have not been used for specified
purposes or for any deemed specified purposes, the value of such suspended purchase and the gross profit
margin thereon is treated as a taxable supply, and an assessment is issued under section 31 of the V AT Act
by the IRD. Any penalty thereon is not waived off.
(iii) The copies of V AT suspended invoices issued by the suppliers should be preserved at least for a period of
five years as a source documents to prove the purchases and the suspended V AT component, when such
details are required.
5.2 Approval of Form SVAT 04 by RIP
(i) When RIP logs into the list page under the e-Service, he is shown Form SV AT 04 submitted by RIS. Thereby,
he is required to approve it giving the credit voucher number allocated to the respective RIS on or before
20 days from the end of the relevant month for which purchases were made.
(ii) If there is any amendment or deletion to be made to the record which has already been approved by RIP, RIP
is required to visit IRD and get it done from the IRD officer.
(iii) If there is no suspended purchases made during any month, RIP is required to tick no suspended purchases
check box in RIP template.
5.3 Credit vouchers and submission of Schedule SVAT 06
(i) The RIP is provided with SIMPLIFIED V AT  CREDIT  VOUCHERS  (SVCV) on a request made by only
by using the e-Service. It is issued in triplicate in a serial order by the IRD. A book of SVCV contains 50
credit vouchers. In issuing credit vouchers to respective suppliers, such SVCV should be signed by two
authorized persons (signatories). Therefore, names of five signatories with their designations, specimen

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
8A
signatures and copies of NICs (copies of passport in case of non-citizens) should be provided to the IRD at
the time of collection of such SVCV , Any change of such signatories subsequently should be informed in
advance. This information is to be made available to the CGIR by the person who has signed the application.
If such person is no longer employed with the registered person, another person can sign the notification,
but such person’s eligibility to sign as authorized person should be proved giving documentary evidence.
(ii) Request for subsequent collection of credit vouchers is also made using the e-Service, When visiting IRD
for collection of credit vouchers, authorized collector should visit IRD with the original SV AT certificate
and relevant document for his identification. When requesting new series of credit vouchers, the copies of
used credit vouchers should be produced to the IRD.
(iii) RIP is required to issue a Credit V oucher on suspended purchases to the RIS not later than 20 days from the
end of any calendar month in which such purchases are made. However, in respect of supplies made to RIPs
on irregular basis, credit vouchers may be issued at the time of the transaction. RIP is required to issue one
credit voucher covering the aggregate purchases made from one supplier during any calendar month. RIP is
required to keep copies of all vouchers issued.
(iv) In the case of bank transactions, RIP is bound to produce SV AT credit voucher at the point of transaction or
within 07 days from the end of a month in which the transaction is carried out provided that the bank
submits Form SV AT 04 using the e-Service within 07 days from the end of the relevant calender month in
which the supplies are made. No credit vouchers is entertained by a bank after 07 days from the end of the
following month in which the transaction is made.
(v) Where any credit voucher is cancelled due to a mistake, original of the cancelled credit voucher should be
attached to the credit voucher book.
(vi) CGIR may refuse issuing credit vouchers to any RIP at any time if it appears that required percentage of
credit vouchers have not been released or required approval for Form SV AT 04 have not been granted on
time.
(vii) RIP is required to submit summary of suspended purchases - Schedule SV AT 06
(viii) RIP is required to download the Schedule templates of such Schedule SV AT 06 and the verifier tool from
the official Website of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. RIP should ensure that latest schedule
templates are used for the preparation of Schedule SV AT 06.
(ix) SV AT quick guide available in the official Website of the IRD which is updated on regular basis has to be
followed to learn the e-Service procedure.
(x) Schedule SV AT 06 should be uploaded by using e-Service by RIP when more than 20 records are to be
entered. When less than 20 records are to be entered, schedule may be uploaded or updated by using
e-Service or by using intranet with the assistance of the IRD officer on or before the end of the following
month.
(xi) If Schedule SV AT 06 has not been submitted in time or if there is any amendment or deletion is to be made
to the record which has already been uploaded, RIP required to visit IRD and get it done from the IRD
officer.
(xii) If purchases have been returned or due to any other reason for which credit note is issued/received, to any
supplier during the same month in which such purchases were made, it should be disclosed in Schedule
SV AT 06 with such supplier’s details and credit voucher number issued during the month and the original
value of purchaser and value of credit notes.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
9A
(xiii) If purchases have been returned or due to any reason for which credit note is issued/received, to any supplier
in respect of previously declared purchase, that information should be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 06 with
the creidt voucher number with the original value of purchase. If value of returned purchase is more than
the purchase of the current period from such supplier, negative value credit voucher is to be written.
(xiv) If there is no purchase in the current month, but there are credit notes issued/received during the month
which is related to previously declared purchases, it should also be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 06 together
with the current credit voucher number which is issued on a negative value.
(xv) The creidt voucher is to be written on the net value of supplies based on the vaule given in Form SV AT 04
for any situation mentioned in item (xii), (xiii) or (xiv) above.
(xvi) If the value of purchases have to be increased on any reason relating to any month where debit note is
issued/received, that information should be disclosed in Schedule SV AT 06 giving the value of the purchases
which is disclosed in the above Schedule SV AT 06 with the credit voucher number issued for that particular
month and relevant credit voucher relating to the purchases for which the increase of value of purchase is
to be made.
(xvii) Any RIP should , on request, prepare a statement of reconciliation to facilitate the officials of the Department
to check whether the imports and locally purchased goods and services have been used for any specified
purpose or deemed specified purpose as defined in Note (j) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
(xviii) RIP is required to submit, on request, a schedule of purchases made under suspended terms giving all
invoice numbers under three sub headings (i. e. raw materials, capital goods and other goods and services
obtained/consumed).
(xix) If any RIP has made suspended supplies, such RIP is required to comply with the requirements specified in
paragraph 3 or 4 as the case may be, of this Schedule. During any period if RIP has not made suspended
supplies, he is required to tick to suspended supply check box in RIS template.
(xx) RIP should not purchase goods or services which are exempted under PART II of the First Schedule of the
V AT Act under suspended terms. If any case SV AT credit voucher has been issued on such purchases, it
should be disallowed and enter such value in cage 8A of the V AT return.
5.4 VAT Return
5.4.1 Value of Purchase
(i) The vaule of purchases should be declared under the suspended purchases in cage “J” of the V AT Return for
the month in which the suspended tax invoice is received. In any case where such purchase has not been
declared for that particular month, it can be disclosed in a subsequent three months period within the same
year of assessment for which accounts are made up for the purpose of section 28 of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 10 of 2006. The amount of suspended V AT should be entered in cage “K”. Under no circumstances
V AT on suspended purchases shall be an input tax, and therefore, it could not be deductible from output tax.
As such, suspended V AT is not refundable. In case where any imput tax on purchases made under suspended
terms is disallowable under the provisions of the V AT Act as mentioned in item (ii) of paragraph 5.1, it
should be disclosed in cage 8A of the V AT return.
(ii) The value of suspended purchases in the V AT return should be the excess of the value of purchase over the
difference between the value of credit notes and debit notes declared in Schedule SV AT 06.
5.5 Refunds
(i) The RIP is requested to make purchases from RIS. Refunds are not made under any circumstances other
than any upfront payment made to the Director General of Customs and V AT paid in any situation mentioned
in item (iii) below.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
10A
(ii) RIP is not authorized to accept a normal tax invoice on purchases unless such purchases are identifiable as
purchase on which the input relating to such purchases are disallowable for V AT purpose or the V A T
component is claimable as referred to in  item (iii) below. Instead of normal tax invoice which could be
considered for claiming of input tax RIP shall request the supplier to issue a suspended tax invoice by
requesting him to get registered under SV AT Scheme as RIS, as far as possible in the case of situations
mentioned in item (iii) below.
(iii) RIP is entitled to claim input tax credit or get excess input (if any) where goods or services obtained from
any other V AT registered person who is not a RIS.
(iv) If it appears that the purchase has been made from any RIP or RIS who has been black listed, no refund is
made on tax invoices received by RIP from such persons
6. Specific Regulations to Registered Identified Purchasers - NFE Manufacturers (Consingnees)
(i) If RIP is a direct exporters who received materials on Non Foreign Exchange (NFE) or non- cash basis
from local suppliers (RIS) on behalf of the foreign buyer to whom the final product is exported, such RIP
is named as NFE Manufacturer (Consignee) and is issued a “NFE Suspended Tax Invoice” by the RIS on
non-cash basis supply, Thereafter, the NFE Manufacturer shall issue a “NFE Credit V oucher” obtained from
the CGIR to such supplier (RIS), provided that such supplies are utilized only for the purpose of manufacture
and export of goods to the foreign buyer. RIP shall have supporting documents for verification of the IRD
officer.
(ii) The value of NFE purchases should be declared under Non Foreign Exchange Purchases in cage “J1” of the
V AT Return. The amount of suspended V AT should be entered in cage “K1”
(iii) All other instructions and procedures shall be applied in the same manner as applicable to normal Suspended
V AT Invoice, suspended purchase and Credit V oucher as applicable to RIP.
 
7. Documents
The goods/services declaration form SV AT 04 and supplementary Schedule SV AT 05, 05a and 05b issued by suppliers
should be mutually agreed with the RIP if such Supplier does not use e-Service. The documents duly signed by RIP
should be returned to the RIS for enable him to submit to the CGIR in order to get keyed data from the IRD Officer
via intranent.
8. General Instructions to Registered Identified Purchasers and Registered Identified Suppliers
(i) RIP should submit V AT return monthly.
(ii) All RIS  should submit his V AT Return on quarterly basis.
(iii) RIP who made suspended supplies should follow the instructions applicable for RIS.
(iv) Value should be to the nearest rupee (do not enter cents).
(v) Any of those forms should not contain information from more than one calendar month.
(vi) Request for change of address of a person registered for SV AT Scheme should be made to the Taxpayer
Services Unit.
(vii) Loss of credit voucher books or credit vouchers should be informed immediately to the IRD with an affidavit
and police report to cancel such credit voucher books or vouchers.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
11A
(viii) Cancellation of SV AT registration should be made after the cancellation of V A T registration and after receiving
a request in that regard with the original certificate. Cancellation is done after receiving all due Form SV AT
04 and respective Scheduels under SV AT Scheme. Further, once the cancellation is done, name of such
persons are published in the Website of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. Further, cancellation
could be made by CGIR on his discretion based on the information which shows that the registered person
has not complied with the regulation issued by him.
(ix) RIS status can be changed to RIP status on a request made with the original certificate and after satisfying
in the requirements mentioned in Note (d) or (e) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
(x)  RIP status could be changed to RIS on a request made with original certificate and credit voucher books
obtained, if any.
(xi) RIP status could be changed to RIS, based on the information available with the CGIR where the required
percentage has not been met for three consecutive taxable periods.
(xii) Confirmaiton of suspended purchase or supplies will be made if both the persons have made available
schedules in the given schedule templates and uploaded, updated or submitted correcly.
9. Penal Provisions
(a) Registered Identified Purchasers
As the ultimate beneficiaries of the SV AT Scheme, the RIPs should strictly be adhered to the SV AT compliance,
obligations while supporting RISs to be compliant with statutory obligations.
(i) Not issuing due credit vouchers by RIP, or not submitting necessary forms by any RIP to the CGIR in
time, which in any manner affects the other party in the process, shall be strictly dealt with under the
statutory provisions of V AT Act.
(ii) After hearing the complaints from suppliers with regard to non-submission of credit vouchers in time, if
it is proved to the satisfcation of the CGIR that the negligence of such act has affected to the supplier, an
assessment could be made on the respective RIP, or such RIP would be black listed.
(iii) Not approving of respective Form SV AT 04 and not submitting Schedule SV AT 06 to the CGIR by the RIP
on time, which is in any manner affects the other party in the process will be strictly dealt with under the
statutory provisions  of V AT Act relating to non-furnishing of returns.
(iv) If any goods or services exempted under PART II of the First Schedule of the V AT Act has been purchased
by any RIP under suspended terms, statutory provisions of the V AT Act will be strictly applied.
(b) Registered Identified Suppliers
(i) If suspended tax invoice has been issued in respect of goods or services which are exempted under PART
II of the First Schedule of the V AT Act, statutory provisions of the V AT Act will be strictly applied.
(ii) The negligence of suppliers in issuing suspended tax invoice, updating Form SV AT 04 and Schedule SV AT
05,  SV AT 05a, SV AT 05b and SV AT 07 to the CGIR on time and which is in any manner affects the other
party in the process will be strictly dealt with the statutory provisions of  V AT Act relating to non-furnishing
of returns.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 27.09.2016
12A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
10. The forms and Schedules specified for the purposes of this scheme are as follows :
(a) The Registration Form
(b) Suspended V AT Invoice used for supplies without charging V AT - (SV AT 02).
(c) NFE Suspended Tax Invoice - [SV AT 02 (a)].
(d) Form SV AT 04 which is to be updated by RIS
(e) Simplified V AT Credit V oucher which is to be obtained from the IRD and utilized by the RIP for set off the
liability of V AT on purchases from the RIS - (SVCV).
(f) Monthly supplementary declaration - Schedule SV AT 05
(g) Suspended Debit Notes declaration - Schedule SV AT 05a
(h) Suspended Credit Notes declaration - Schedule SV AT 05b
(i) Summary of the suspended normal and NFE supplies including suspended Debit Notes issued/received
and Credit Notes issued/received - Schedule SV AT 07
(j) Summary of the suspended normal and NFE purchases including suspended Debit  Notes issued/received
and Credit Notes issued/received including - Schedule SV AT 06
11. This set of regulations is subjected to amendment from time to time.
The guideline issued by the CGIR under Circular No. SEC 2012/03 of  30.07.2012  and Gazette Notification
No. 1910/2 dated April 16, 2015 is prevail for the period prior to this Gazette.
10 - 225