

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
w;s úfYI
wxl 2186$41 - 2020 cQ,s ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'07'31
No. 2186/41  - FRIDAY,  JULY    31, 2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
 PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No: CI/1830.
THE   INDUSTRIAL   DISPUTES   ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between
International Distillers Limited, Melfort Estate, Kotalawala,
Kaduwela of the one part and the Food, Beverages and
Tobacco Industries Employees Union, No. 513-1/2, Elvitigala
Mawatha, Colombo 05  of the other part on 25th October
2019 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the
Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legislative
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05,
10th  July,  2020.
Collective Agreement No. 04 of 2020
Collective Agreement
Between
International Distillers Limited,
Melfort Estate, Kotalawala,
Kaduwela.
Of one Part
And
Food Beverages and Tobacco
Industries Employees Union,
No. 513-1/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo
Of other Part
1A- G  32610 - 41  (07/2020)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
COLLECTIVE    AGREEMENT
Collective agreement between International
Distillers Limited and Food Beverages &
Tobacco Industries Employees’  Union
(Manual Grade Employees)
This Agreement made and entered into on this 25 th October
2019 between International Distillers Limited, a duly registered
company having its factory and office at Melfort Estate,
Kotalawala, Kaduwela (hereinafter referred to as “the
Company”) and the Food, Beverages and Tobacco Industries
Employees Union, a duly registered Trade Union having its
registered office at No. 513-1/2, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo
5 (hereinafter referred to as “The Union”).
1. Parties and Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind the Company, the
Union and all members of the Union employed in the
Company on permanent monthly contracts as at the date
of signing this Agreement, unless otherwise stated, and
those who are employed in categories specified in
Schedule 1 hereof.
Unless otherwise stated, it is also agreed by and between
parties that the terms of this Collective Agreement will
be applicable to those employees in the Company who
are not members of the Union but who are employed in
the categories specified in Schedule 1 on permanent
monthly contracts of employment as at the date hereof
and to all those who will be recruited by the Company to
positions referred to in Schedule 1 hereof during the
period of this Agreement.
2. Salaries of Employees
It is hereby agreed that the salaries of employees covered
by this Agreement will be revised as follows:
(i) First Year 2019/2020
(a) To ascertain the salary payable to an employee
with effect from 1
st November 2019 the employer
shall add to the monthly salary as at 31st October
2019 of each employee, a sum of Rs 3,250/
The minimum salary applicable to an employee
in respect of each category of employment are
as per the scale set out in Schedule 1 hereof.
(b) The employees shall also be entitled to a
seniority allowance on the rates applicable as
follows, which shall also be included for EPF,
ETF, Overtime and Gratuity.
i. Service from 3 yrs to less than 11 yrs Rs
39/25 per year of service
ii. Service from 12 yrs to less than 15 yrs Rs
29/80 per year of service
iii.Service of 16 yrs or more Rs 25/60 per
year of service
(ii)Second Year - 2020/2021
(a) To ascertain the salary payable to an employee
with effect from 1
st November 2020 the employer
shall add to the monthly salary as at 31st October
2020 of each employee, a sum of Rs 2,750/- and,
(b) In addition the seniority allowance as referred
to in 2. (i) (b) above shall be revised as follows:
i. Service from 3 yrs to less than 11 yrs Rs
27/18 per year of service
ii. Service from 12 yrs to less than 15 yrs Rs
32/95 per year of service
iii.Service of 16 yrs or more Rs 37/ 94 per
year of service
(iii)Third Year - 2021/2022
(c) To ascertain the salary payable to an employee
with effect from 1st November 2021 the employer
shall add to the monthly salary as at 31st October
2021 of each employee, a sum of Rs 3,300/- and,
(d) In addition the seniority allowance as referred
to in 2. (i) (b) and 2. (ii) (b) above shall be revised
as follows:
iv. Service from 3 yrs to less than 11 yrs Rs
41/25 per year of service
v. Service from 12 yrs to less than 15 yrs Rs
31/80 per year of service
vi. Service of 16 yrs or more Rs 27/60 per
year of service
3. Bonus
During the pendency of the Agreement The Company
will pay in December and April of each year a Bonus to
employees calculated on the basis set our hereunder.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
i) A sum equal to one and a half (1.5) month’s salary in
December provided that the Company has operated
at a profit during the financial year immediately
preceding the bonus payment, and a further half (0.5)
month’s salary in April at the discretion of the
Company. The salary for this purpose shall be the
salary paid to employees in the month of November
of the year in which the bonus falls due having regard
to the position that the financial year of the Company
is from 1
st October to 30th September.
ii) The Company agrees to pay an additional sum equal
to half month’s salary in December each year if the
Company achieves the budgeted sales target of each
year, which is 790,330 91tr cases, for the financial year
2019/20 excluding the Bacardi & Eristoff product
categories. In respect of the financial year 2020/21 &
2021/22, the budgeted sales targets will be determined
and announced by the Company and the Union may
opt to include Bacardi & Eristoff product categories
into the budgeted sales targets to be announced by
the Company.
iii)The Company agrees to pay an additional sum equal
to half months salary in December each year if the
Company exceeds the budgeted sales target by 5% in
the previous financial year.
iv) In the event of the Company not having made profits
in respect of any financial year, the bonus payable
shall be restricted to one (1) month’s salary per
employee in December. The Union, however, reserves
the right to raise a dispute in relation to such reduction
and should the controlling body of the Union so
decide, such dispute shall be pursued under the
provisions of the Industrial Dispute Act. It is agreed
in this regard, the Union and/or the employee shall
not resort to any form of Trade Union action in
pursuing such dispute.
4. Loans
The Company will grant the following types of loans to
employees on applications made for such loans on the
basis set out hereunder.
a. Provided the applicant has no outstanding amount
on the category of loan applied for.
b. The retirement date of the employee applying for
such loan shall be taken into consideration in the
working of the recovery period of the loan.
c. Ability of the applicants to furnish information,
documentation and security as relevant and be
complaint with the requirements of the Company
for the granting of such loans.
i) Distress Loan
The Company will grant distress loans to employees
on applications made for such loans on the following
basis.
a) Employees with over 5 years service Rs 22,500/
-. An interest free loan repayable in 12 monthly
instalments.
b) Employees whose service period is 3 years and
above and under 5 years of service will be
entitled for an interest free loan of Rs 15,000/-
repayable in 12 monthly instalments.
c) Employees whose service period is 1 year and
above and under 3 years of service will be
entitled for an interest free loan of Rs 10,000/-
repayable in 12 monthly instalments.
ii) Housing Loans
Housing loans shall be granted to employees once in
five years during their period of service with the
company, in accordance with the conditions presently
applicable in the following manner.
1. Employees with a service of 3 yrs. to less than 8
yrs. Rs. 60,000/-
2. Employees with a service of 8 yrs. to less than
10 yrs. Rs. 75,000/-
3. Employees with a service of 10 yrs. or more
Rs. 200,000/-
The interest rates shall be determined on the
average bank lending rate prevalent and shall
apply to these loans on the basis of a reducing
balance, and the total loaned amount together
with the interest is recoverable within 48 months
of granting such loan to an employee.
iii)Loan to purchase Motorcycle or Three Wheeler
A loan of Rs 125,000/- shall be made available to
employees who have completed one year
7s (1) service
to purchase either an unregistered motorcycle or a

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
three wheeler subject to the tendering of a legally
accepted valuation & other terms presently applicable.
An employee would only become eligible to apply for
a further loan after full repayment and the lapse of 5
years since the last loan.
The interest rates prevalent shall apply to these loans
on the basis of a reducing balance, and the total
loaned amount together with the interest is
recoverable within 48 months of granting such loan
to an employee.
5. Work Arrangements
In addition to the normal working hours, the Company
shall at its own discretion, schedule longer work
programmes such as overnight production and work
on shift basis to meet market demand as and when
required.
These work arrangements shall include a dual shift
operation, which shall be worked from 6.00 am to 2.00
pm and from 2.00 pm to 10.00 pm on a continuous
basis and without interruption. On the days dual shift
is operated, the employer shall pay a ‘shift allowance’
to employees who attend work on such shifts as
follows:
1
st Shift (6.00 am to 2.00 pm) - Rs 175/-
2nd shift (2.00 pm to 10.00 pm) - Rs 225/-
Where a second shift is not necessary, a single shift
will be operated on the basis of the traditional work
arrangements (ie. as a single shift) also on a
continuous basis and without interruption to
production operations.
To facilitate uninterrupted operations the Union and
employees agree to avail of the meal intervals on a
staggered basis irrespective of the shift being
operated (ie. whether or not it is a single or dual shift
being operated) as per schedule (2) hereof.
In the event a change of working hours is deemed
necessary for the company, ie to change the
operations from a single shift to a dual shift or ‘vice
versa’ as the case may be, such changes will be
notified seven (7) days prior to the implementation.
The modalities of implementing of such work
arrangements shall be decided upon after consultation
with the Union. It is also agreed that the employees
shall extend their co-operation in relation to such work
arrangements.
6. Monthly Performance Bonus
The Company agrees to pay a Monthly Performance
Bonus (MPB) based on local liquor sales of a minimum
of 50,000 (9 ltr cases) per month on the basis of the scale
hereunder with effect from 1
st November 2019.
Number of Cases in (000) Applicable MPB per
employee in (Rs)
50 - less than 70 5,500
70 - less than 75 6,300
75 - less than 80 6,800
80 - less than 85 7,300
85 - less than 90 7,800
90 - less than 95 8.300
95 - less than 100 8.800
100 - less than 105  9,300
105 - less than 110 9.800
110 - less than 115 10.300
115 - less than 120 10.800
Over 120 15.300
7. Production Incentive
The Company will contribute Rs 5/78 per 9 litre case
produced towards a production incentive pool during
the month and distribute to each employee in an eligible
category (excluding those earning a sales commission/
bonus) on a pro-rata basis, on the number of hours
actually worked by each eligible employee during the
entire month. Any period of prior approved annual leave
obtained by an employee will be regarded as hours
worked for the purpose of computing this incentive
payment.
The Company shall also take into consideration of both
shifts in the event of a dual shift operation period, as set
out in clause five (5) above, for the purpose of calculating
the production incentive.
8. Sales Commission/Bonus
The Company will pay Rs 1/65 per 9 litre case to
employees engaged in the delivery of finished goods
from the factory/ company warehouse/ depots to
customers.
In the transfer of finished goods between and among
the factory and or company operated warehouses/
depots, a payment of cts. 20 per 9 litre case shall be paid.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
9. Batta Rates for Delivery Staff
The following rates shall apply to Distribution Staff
engaged in work during the time of such meals.
Bed tea - Rs. 40/-
Breakfast - Rs.140/-
Morning tea (10 a.m.) - Rs. 40/-
Lunch - Rs. 200/-
Afternoon tea (3 p.m.) - Rs. 40/-
Evening tea (6 p.m.) - Rs. 70/-
Dinner - Rs. 200/-
10. Night Allowance for Manual Categories
The Company will pay a sum of Rs. 125/- per employee
for work performed in the factory premises from 5 p.m.
up to 8 p.m. or thereafter, provided that the total duration
for such work shall not be less than three hours.
11. Retirement Gift
The Company agrees to grant retirement gifts to those
employees who retire after reaching the retirement age
of 55 yrs, as follows :
     Over 15 yrs. of service 01 Gold sovereign
     Over 20 yrs. of service 1 1/2 Gold sovereign
12. Annual Picnic
During the pendency of this Agreement the Company
will make a grant of Rs. 11,000/- in the 1
st year, Rs. 12,000/
- in the 02nd year and Rs. l3,000 in the 3rd year, per employee
who participates in the annual picnic organized by
employees of the Company.
In the event of there being no annual picnic in respect of
any year, no grant will be made on such account and the
Company will not carry forward this amount to a
subsequent year.
13. Gift Vouchers
The Company will issue Gift V ouchers to all manual grade
employees in December and April each year. The amount
applicable for each year are as follows :
        2019/20 - Rs. 9,750/=
        2020/21 - Rs. 10,250/=
        2021/22 - Rs. 10,750/=
14. Uniforms
Uniforms provided to employees annually will be four
(4) T-shirts and Three (3) trousers.
In order to enhance the hygiene standards of the
Company, employees are prohibited from wearing the
Company uniforms outside the premises of the factory
and the location where work is assigned.
15. Duty Leave for Union Secretary
A half working day of each month is allowed as duty
leave to the Branch Union Secretary for union work with
the prior approval of the Manager HR, Head of
Department of the particular function or the Chief
Executive Officer.
16. Variation of Terms and Trade Union Action
The Union and the employees covered and bound by
this Agreement on their part agree that;
i) During the continuance in force of this Agreement, the
Union and employees shall not seek to vary or alter any
term or condition of this Collective Agreement or make
any demands relating to the payment or increase of any
monetary benefits to employees whether by way of a
salary revision or otherwise.
ii) During the pendency of this Agreement the Union and
the employees shall not engage in strike or any other
form of trade union action in respect of any dispute that
may arise between the Union and the Company and or
the employees, and except in a situation where in the
opinion of the controlling body of the Union, the
Company acts in a manner calculated to threaten or
undermine the existence of or the legitimate activities of
the Union in relation to an industrial dispute and the
Company is given 14 days written notice of such action.
17. Mobility of Labour
If work is temporarily not available for a General Worker
in the Department where such employee is normally
assigned work at any given time, or in the event the
services of a General Worker is urgently required by
another Department, he/ she shall be deemed ready and
willing to perform work within his capacity and skill in
any other Department to which he may be assigned.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
The Company shall establish a Grievance Handling
mechanism to address any grievance that may arise due
to such temporary assignment. The decision of the
management shall be final.
18. Transfers
Employees will be transferred from Department to
Department at the discretion of the Management, subject
to the competence of the employee.
19. Period of Agreement
i) The provisions of this Collective Agreement shall
be effective from 1
st November 2019 and shall remain
binding unless otherwise terminated by the
Company or the Union with one month’s notice to
each other, provided, however, that no such notice
may be given by either party prior to the 30
th
September 2022, other than for a reason involving
the violation of all or any of the provisions
contained herein by a party.
ii) The provisions of this Collective Agreement shall
supersede the provisions of any other
memorandum of settlement or collective agreement
entered into between parties earlier and the
provisions of whatever such earlier settlement/
agreement shall stand terminated with effect from
the date hereof.
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have
hereunto set their hands at the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon office in Colombo on this
25
th day of October 2019.
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
INTERNATIONAL Food Beverages and Tobacco
DISTILLERS  LIMITED.,Industries Employees’ Union
Name : R S Tissanayagam Name: D Malavisuriya
Designation: Designation:
Managing Director Deputy Gen. Secretary
Witness to the Witness to the
above signature above signature
Name : V N Nair Name : N G R Nawagamuwa
Designation Designation:
Group Head of Finance Branch Union Secretary
 Schedule (1)
Category-wise Minimum Monthly Salaries
The minimum rates of salaries mentioned below will be
adjusted to be consistent with the minimum rates of wages to
be promulgated by the Wages Board for the Liquor & Vinegar
Trade, Motor Transport Trade and Engineering Trade Gazetted
in terms of the law during the period of operation of this
Collective Agreement.
Category Designations Minimum
Salary (Rs.)
General Worker 15,000.00
Production Worker
(Liquor & Vinegar Trade)
Transport Aid 15,000.00
(Previously  Cleaner)
(Motor Transport Trade)
Skilled Minor Supervisor 15,000.00
Machine Operator
Driver
(Motor Transport Trade)
Skilled Electrician 15,000.00
Technician
Mechanic
Blending/V at Operator
(Engineering Trade)
Schedule (2)
Staggered Meal Intervals of Employees
1. The meal intervals for the respective shift times will be
as follows:
a. Single Shift
Mid-day meal (lunch) -12 noon to 1 p.m.
Tea break - morning 10 a.m. to 10.15 a.m.
Tea break - afternoon 3.15 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.
b. Double shift - morning
Breakfast - 7 a.m. to 7.15 a.m.
Morning tea-10 am to 10.15 a.m.
Lunch - 12 noon to 12.30 p.m.
Double shift - Evening
Afternoon tea - 3.15 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.
Evening Tea - 6 p.m. to 6.15 p.m.
Dinner - 8 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.
Tea -10 p.m.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
2 . Employees involved in the production process
(Production, Maintenance and Stores) will avail only half
an hour for the mid day meal (lunch) or dinner which will
be staggered along with the relevant tea breaks during
the times as set out below.
a. Single shift
Mid-day meal (lunch) -12 noon to 1 p.m.
Tea break - morning 9.45 a.m. to 10.30 a.m.
Tea break - afternoon 3 p.m. to 3.45 p.m.
b. Double shift - Morning
Breakfast - 7 a.m. to 7.45 a.m.
Morning tea - 10 a.m. to 10.45 a.m.
Lunch -12 noon to 1 p.m
Double shift - Evening
Afternoon tea - 3 p.m. to 3.45 p.m.
Evening tea - 5.45 p.m. to 6.30 p.m.
Dinner - 8 p.m. to 9 p.m.
3. An employee who avails of only half hour for the mid
day meal (lunch) during the single shift operation shall
be paid an interval allowance of Rs. 160/- per day and
half an hour’s overtime at one and half times the normal
hourly rate. These payments will be paid strictly to only
those employees who actually engage in direct
production operations on a given date.
4. During maintenance work or machine service the above
arrangements will not be applicable, provided however,
that advance notice has been given to the employees
regarding such maintenance work.
5. An employee will qualify for the payments referred to in
paragraph (3) above only if he works the full day.
Therefore, those factory employees on half a day’s leave
will not enjoy this facility. However, if an employee on
half day’s leave either works half an hour after 12 noon
or half an hour before 1 pm is entitled to claim half an
hour’s overtime but not entitled to the interval allowance.
Any employee utilizing short leave immediately prior to
12 noon or after lunch will not be entitled to claim the
interval allowance or the overtime on that particular day.
At the request of employees involved in the production
process the company will permit an employee up to a
maximum of two occasions per month to leave the work
place half an hour early without providing any
replacements. This facility is available to a maximum of
two persons per day. Accordingly an employee who
wishes to make use of this facility would have to work
half an hour early during the lunch interval to be eligible
for this concession and entitled to claim the interval
allowance, however, no overtime will be paid.
6. The company will accede to a request from the Union
not to operate the production lines during one of the tea
intervals to enable the Union to have a meeting with its
members at branch level. This will be limited to a maximum
of two occasions a month provided that the Union will
give at least 48 hours notice to the Company. If the
circumstances justify, a meeting at shorter notice than
48 hours of a request being made by the Union, will be
considered by the management on a case by case basis.
The Company will also have the option of this facility by
giving the employees prior notice of its intension to stop
production during an interval.
08 - 328
My No: CI/1813
THE   INDUSTRIAL   DISPUTES   ACT,  CHAPTER   131
The Collective Agreement entered into between De La Ru
Lanka Currency & Security Print (Pvt) Ltd, Export Processing
Zone, Biyagama, Malwana of the one part and the Inter
Company Employees Union, No.259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha,
Koswatte, Talangama of the other part on 4
th October 2019 is
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05,
10th  July, 2020.
Collective Agreement No. 07 of 2020
COLLECTIVE     AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement made on this 4
th October 2019,
pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act, between De La Rue
Lanka Currency & Security Print (Pvt) Limited, a Company
incorporated under the laws of Sri Lanka, having its principal
place of business at Export Processing Zone, Biyagama,
Malwana of One Part (hereinafter referred to as “the
Employer”) and the Inter Company Employees Union, a Trade
Union registered under the laws of Sri Lanka, having its

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
registered office at 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta,
Battaramulla, of the Other Part, (hereinafter referred to as
“the Union”) witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the
parties as follows :
1. Parties to be covered and bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind De La Rue Lanka
Currency & Security Print (Pvt) Limited, the Inter
Company Employees Union and employees of the
Employer in manual grades on permanent monthly
contracts of employment (hereinafter referred to as
“Employees”).
2. Date of Operation and Duration
This Agreement shall be effective for a period of 12
months from the 1
st day of July 2019 and shall be in force
till 30th of June 2020 and shall thereafter continue to be in
force unless it is repudiated by either party giving one
month’s notice in writing to the other, provided however,
that neither party hereto shall give such notice to the
other before the 30
th day of June 2020.
All parties agreed to put forward their proposals for
renewal of the Collective Agreement, in writing, at least
6 months prior to expiry of the Agreement.
3. Revision of basic salaries:
(i) Salaries drawn by employees covered and bound
by this Agreement shall be revised in the following
manner:
1
st July 2019-8%
(ii) De La Rue believes in recognizing and rewarding
the best performers, hence the Company at its
discretion may grant additional rewards to best
performers depending on the availability of
budgetary allowances.
4. Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Employer that bonus
payments are ex-gratia, the Employer shall continue to
pay two months’ salary as annual bonus.
The hitherto practice with regard to the time of payment
and deductions based on attendance, penalties made
after a domestic inquiry, unauthorized absence shall
continue. New employees shall enjoy the benefit of the
bonus proportionately. The current practice of 25%
forfeiture of annual bonus for disciplinary written
warnings will continue.
5. Production bonus
i) The Employer shall continue to make payment of a
production bonus equivalent to one month’s salary
of an employee subject to the achievement of the
conditions of SSQCDP which, will be published at
the beginning of the financial year.
ii) However, it is also agreed by the Employer to make
payment on pro-rata basis of the production bonus
in the event each of the said criteria is achieved
based on the weights in percentages are mentioned
against each criterion.
iii) Parties agree that the Employer reserves its right
to 10% of forfeiture on production bonus payable
on account of written warnings issued after a proper
investigation.
iv) In addition to the above, the deduction from the
production bonus shall also be made on account
of absence and shall be pro-rated on a weekly basis.
This condition shall be applicable for any period
of absence over and above the stipulated leave
entitlement. E.g. Deduction of 1/52 of production
bonus for every 5 days absence.
6. Shift allowances:
Subject to the present criteria of payment it is agreed by
parties that the shift allowances will be revised from the
date of signing of this Agreement (i.e. 4
th October 2019):
1st shift (6.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m.) Rs.120.00
2nd shift (2.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m.) Rs.150.00
3rd shift (Night shift) Rs.850.00
7. Medical benefits -
i) OPD - With effect from 1st April 2019, the Employer
shall reimburse expenses incurred by employees
in respect of OPD treatment to a maximum of
Rs.30,000/- per year and such amount shall be
offered to each confirmed employee as a family
unit.
ii) Hospitalization Insurance - With effect from 1
st
April 2019, the Employer shall pay the premium for
Hospitalization Insurance as a family unit, in respect
of hospitalization up to a maximum of Rs. 130,000/
- per employee per annum.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
8. Compassionate leave - leave for funerals
The Company agrees to increase the leave for funerals
from 2 to 3 days and in the event the funeral precedes a
weekend or ‘days off ’ the leave will be considered from
the following working day, but it must be within 7 days
of the death of the relevant family member. The family
under consideration for the intents and purposes of the
leave are as follows;
• Parents
• Spouse
• Children
• Own siblings (brothers and sisters)
• Own maternal or paternal grandparents
• Mother - In - Law / Father - in- law
9. Shift handover /take over time
The shift handover / take over time to remain as ten (10)
minutes in order to ensure smooth continuation of work
between shifts. Effective shift times will be as follows,
1
st shift - 5.55 a.m. to 2.05 p.m.
2nd shift -1.55 p.m. to 10.05 p.m.
3rd shift - 9.55 p.m. to 6.05 a.m.
10. Trade Union Action
The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree
that they shall not, during the operation of this
Agreement, take or resort to any form of Trade Union
action in respect of any matter covered by this
Agreement.
Further, the Union agrees that in the event of any form of
trade union action the uniformed security personnel will
not put the site at risk by taking part in the trade union
action. The uniformed security will at all times agree to
follow the sites security procedures including
instructions and guidance provided by the site’s Security
Manager and the Plant Manager or in absence of the
Plant Manager the Acting Plant Manager with 100%
compliance to ensure that the site is not at risk under
any circumstance.
The uniformed security personnel agree to continue to
report for duty and carry out their routine work
responsibilities in full despite any form of collective
action by the trade union. Additionally, the Security
personnel agree to carry out and complete work/tasks
that they are engaged in at the time of the industrial
action both inside and outside the site until it is completed
in line with normal or enhanced security procedures in
full, e.g: inspecting loading operations, guarding or
escorting duties will be carried out despite any trade
union action, however, it is noted that new tasks of
escorting and loading will not be undertaken during
collective action. Utmost priority will be given to ensure
the site’s security is maintained during any form of
collective action.
11. Dispute Settlement Procedure
a) The Union and the Employees jointly and
severally agree that any dispute/problem/issue
that may arise between the parties, in respect of
any matter not covered by this Agreement, to
resolve such dispute/problem/issue in the manner
provided in clauses (b) to (e) below.
b) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement
of the dispute should be forwarded by the Union’s
Branch Committee to the Employer, and at 14 days
given for the Employer to resolve the dispute. This
letter should be date stamped by the HR and
handed back into the Union Representative.
c) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter
should be referred to the Parent Union and to The
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (EFC) for the
purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
d) If after the discussion, the matter cannot be
resolved by the intervention of the EFC and the
Parent Union, the conciliatory proceedings under
the Industrial Disputes Act should be followed.
e) If after conciliation has failed in the Labour
Department, the Union wishes to take Trade Union
action, written notice should be given of not less
than fourteen days (14) to the Employer and the
EFC regarding such Trade Union action. For the
avoidance of doubt, this is addition to the 14 days
above in (b).
It is reaffirmed by parties to adhere to the dispute
resolution procedure stated above in resolving any
disputes.
12. Co-operation between the parties
i) The Employer agrees to continue with the facility
of remitting check off directly to the Union.
ii) The Employer will continue to grant the facility of
permitting the President and the Secretary of the
branch to attend monthly meetings of the Union.
The Employer also agrees to release not more
than two employees to attend to Training
Programmes/ Seminars conducted by the Union,

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
not more than twice in each calendar year
provided, however, that the Union requests in
writing for this facility with sufficient notice to
the Employer.
iii) Employees agree to continue to extend their
fullest co-operation in respect of enhancing
productivity at the work place, which include the
following:
a) Employees will extend their fullest co-
operation in respect of any change in work
arrangements and shift operations to
facilitate production requirements. The
Employer agrees to discuss with the Union
and the employees, proposed changes in
work arrangements in advance.
b) Changes in relation to work arrangements
and shift operations as currently practiced
at the work place. In this regard it is agreed
by the Employer to discuss in advance with
the Union and the employees, of any
changes it proposes to implement in relation
to work arrangements.
As such, the Union is agreeing that during
periods where there is no work to run
machines/ packing, the crew/s will remain at
home unless otherwise the Company has
work in other departments in Production to
deploy them. A prior communication will be
done to the Union and the employees in this
regard.
c) Flexibility to move within currently practiced
shift patterns to facilitate training and multi-
skilling, manning of new machinery and
production requirements will be continued
and carried out to ensure optimization of
human capital. I.e., it is the prerogative of
the management to move shifts around to
ensure that the product/site security
concerns are addressed.
d) The Union has agreed that Uniformed
Security Personnel vacancies which arise
due to retirements/resignations will not be
backfilled by permanent cadres. Ten (10)
vacancies will be backfilled by 3
rd party
security who will be engaged to cover the
period. This is in order to comply with the
ISO 14298 standards observations and non-
conformances.
e) All vacancies arising on site will be recruited
as per Group’s Recruitment Policy. I.e. failing
to source for the right candidate internally
will result in the Company sourcing the
suitable  candidate externally. In the interest
of development of internal candidates the
applicants should be given feedback
as to what/where they need to improve.
f) All activities connected to the management
of quality, environment, health and safety,
implementation of international standards,
continuous improvement and training
activities.
g) All necessary measures in relation to
handing over of work between shifts. In
view of this undertaking, the Employer will
continue to implement the present
practice of granting a grace period of five
minutes in the event the employee
reports late.
h) Taking all necessary measures by
employees in the Maintenance Division in
respect of breakdowns in order to minimize
the impact on production including flexibility
to work during factory shut-downs (New
year, Wesak, Christmas and 4 other days,
which will be agreed by both parties in
November for the following calendar year) if
required for annual maintenance and other
maintenance matters.
In case of a dispute arising as to the interpretation of this
Collective Agreement, the English original shall prevail.
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set
their hands at Colombo on this 4
th day of October Two
Thousand and Nineteen.
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
De La Rue Lanka Currency Inter Company Employees
& Security Print (Private) Union
Limited
Name : P H A S Wijayarathne Name : Piyasena
Hettiarachchi
Designation: Director Desig: Senior Asst. Secretary
Secretary,
Jacey & Company,
Secretaries to De La Rue Lanka
Currency & Security Print (Pvt.) Limited.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
  Witnesses 1:
David Donalson Lakmal Dhanushka
Plant Manager Branch President - ICEU
De La Rue Lanka Currency
and Security Print (Pvt) Limited.
Witnesses 2:
Prasad de Silva Kavinda Paranahewa
Asst. Director-General Branch Secretary - ICEU
The Employers’ Federation
of Ceylon
08 - 329
My No: CI/1816
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into  between Heyleys
Agriculture Holdings Ltd, No. 400, Deans Raod, Colombo 10
of the one part and Inter Company Employees Union, No.
259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatte, Talangama  of the other
part on 10th August 2018 is hereby published in terms of
Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the
Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05,
02nd  March 2020.
Collective Agreement No. 06 of 2019
This Collective Agreement made this Tenth day of August
Two Thousand and Eighteen to take effect from the First day
of November Two Thousand and Seventeen pursuant to the
Industrial Disputes Act,
between
Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Limited
(PB575), having its registered office at 400
Deans Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter
referred to as the “Employer’)
Of the One Part
And
THE INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES'
UNION a registered Trade Union having
its office at 259/9 Sethsiri Mawatha,
Koswatta, Thalangama (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘Union’)
Of the Second Part
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as
follows:
TITLE : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as
the  Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Limited Kottawa Factory
Manual Worker's Collective Agreement of  2017
PART  I
Containing terms and conditions of employment and matters
incidental thereto and connected therewith.
1. Persons Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the
Union and the Members of the Union who are employed
and are working at the Factory at 168/D Brahmanagama,
Kottawa of the Employer in a manual or labouring
capacity on monthly contracts of employment as at the
date of signing this Agreement and for whom provision
has been made in the wage scales set out in schedules 1
and 2 of this Agreement. For employees recruited to the
permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June
Two Thousand and Eight and for new employees
recruited directly under the Employer, provision has been
made in the Wage Scales set out in Schedule 3 of this
Agreement and Clauses 15 and 20 shall not apply to
such employees.
2. Date of Operation and Duration :
This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day
of November Two Thousand and Seventeen and shall
thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by
either party giving notice in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act in writing to the other subject to the
following provisos:
a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to
the other party before the First day of November Two
Thousand and Twenty and no notice given before
that date shall be regarded as valid.
b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the
Sri Lankan Rupee under any provision of law, a party

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
shall be at liberty to abrogate this Agreement by
giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in
terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment
During the continuance in force of this Agreement the
terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed
to be included in each contract of service between the
Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such
contract of service be written or oral, which was
subsisting on the date hereof or which shall come into
being at any time after the date hereof during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. New Employees
The Company will be entitled to recruit employees to the
permanent cadre after the date hereof and place them on
a suitable point in the Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3,
if required. Such new employees will not be covered by
clauses 15 and 20 of this Agreement. The Wage Scale set
out in Schedule 3 hereto includes the Statutory
Allowances as at the date of this Agreement.
5. Probation
Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a
period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however, that if during the six (6) months
probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with
the progress of such Employee, the probationary period
may be extended for a further period of three (3) months
and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary
period has been extended. During the period of probation
or extended probation the Employer shall have the right
to terminate the services of the Employee without notice.
6. Attendance :
1 ) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his
Employer an Employee shall present himself for work
on every day (other than a holiday) at the usual
starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall
there remain available for work throughout the normal
working hours.
2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily
not available for an Employee in his own occupation
he shall be deemed to be ready and willing to perform
work within the capacity and skill in any other
occupation at any other work site of the Employer
where work is available.
3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee
shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be
liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
7. Hours of Works :
The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift
shall be nine and one half (9 1/2) hours inclusive of a half
(1/2) hour interval for lunch and two fifteen minutes
intervals for tea. (Please note that the decision to work a
five day week was arrived at consequent to the Fuel
Conservation Law of 1973 and the request made by the
employees to continue with the same work arrangements
after the repeal of the Law. Therefore, currently the
employees enjoy the benefit of an additional holiday on
the short working day which is - presently on Saturday).
8. Forfeiture of Wages :
Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the
Employer an Employee fails to hold himself available for
work throughout the normal working hours of each
working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be
entitled to deduct his wages for the period from the time
at which such failure occurs until he is again available
for work.
9. Overtime  :
1) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work
reasonable overtime which has been authorized
by the Employer. Refusal to work reasonable
overtime in the absence of a satisfactory
explanation which is acceptable to the Employer
shall constitute neglect of duty for which an
Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary
action.
2) Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of
normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one
and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate
ascertained in accordance with the provisions of
clause 19 (a) hereof.
10. Weekly Holidays
1) In respect of each week every Employee shall be
allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that week as
the weekly holiday provided however, that if an

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
Employee has not worked for a period of at least
twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any period of
overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to
forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct
one day’s wage in respect of the weekly holiday for
that week computed in accordance with the
provisions of clause 19(b) hereof.
2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours
referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall
include -
a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the
Employee as annual holiday;
b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer
in terms of clause 12 hereof;
                             and
c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved
by the Employer
3) The Employer may employ any Employee on a
weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
i) A day within the six days next succeeding
such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that
Employee as a holiday with remuneration.
Provided however, that if any Employee who
is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to
forfeit and the Employer is entitled to deduct
one day’s wage in respect of that weekly
holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and
the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one
day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of clause 19(b) hereof in respect of
the holiday which shall be allowed to that
Employee within six (6) days of that weekly
holiday. Provided further, that in respect of
not more than two (2) such weekly holidays in
any one calendar month the Employer may
with the consent of the Employee -
a) instead of allowing an alternate holiday
within six (6) days of the weekly holiday
in respect of which that Employee shall
not be liable to forfeit and the Employer
shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s
wage as aforesaid, pay him one day’s
wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of clause 19(b) hereof in lieu
of such alternate holiday, or
b) in case that Employee is entitled to an
alternate holiday within six (6) days of
the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he
shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer
shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage
as aforesaid, employ that Employee on
the alternate holiday.
ii) That in respect of work done on such weekly
holiday the Employee shall be paid as
remuneration -
a) One and one half (1 1/2) times the normal
hourly rate ascertained in accordance
with the provisions of Clause 19(a)
hereof for the number of hours worked
during the first nine (09) hours
(exclusive of one (01) hour for a meal);
                                         and
b) At double the normal hourly rate
ascertained in accordance with the
provisions of clause 19(a) hereof for
each subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall
not apply to employees engaged on
work outside the business premises of
the Employer for periods exceeding
twelve (12) hours in respect of the
duration of each such period.
4) Saturday shall be a non-working day and where an
employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday
in terms of this Clause, he shall forfeit three fifth of
his pay for Saturday if he has worked only 2 days in
the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has
worked only one day in the week and shall receive
no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any
day in the week. For the purpose of this sub-clause
days worked will be reckoned in terms of sub-clause
2 above.
11. Annual Holidays
An employee will be entitled to a maximum of fourteen
(14) days earned annual leave in accordance with the
practice of the Company.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
12. Public Holidays
1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in
accordance with the practice of the Company.
Provided however, that an Employee may be
employed on a public holiday in accordance with
the practice of the Company.
2) If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible
to under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a
Sunday, a day either in the six (6) days immediately
preceding or in the six (6) days immediately
succeeding such public holiday shall be granted to
the Employee as a weekly holiday in accordance
with the provisions of clause 10 hereof.
3) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible
under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a
Saturday the number of hours constituting the
normal working day on the day immediately
preceding such public holiday shall be four and one
half (4  1/2) hours and no interval for a meal shall be
granted.
13. Casual Leave
1) In respect of each year of employment during which any
Employee has been continuously in employment that
Employee shall be entitled to take on account of private
business or other reasonable cause including ill health if
that Employee’s entitlement to sick leave has been fully
utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’)
with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of
periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer
shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be liable to pay
such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than
two (2) days Casual Leave shall be taken at any time
save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided
further that any Employee shall not be entitled to take
Casual Leave immediately preceding or immediately
following any period of annual holidays. Provided further
that in respect of any Employee’s first year of employment
including any period of probation he shall be entitled to
Casual Leave for that year computed on the basis of one
day for each complete period of two months’ service
2) Casual Leave will normally be granted on application
without the Employee being required to state the reason
for the application. Where an Employer finds it difficult
to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty
shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possible
after the application is made and in such case the
Employee may be required to state the reason for the
application in order that the Employer may decide
whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant
him Casual Leave.
14 . Sick Leave
1) In any year an Employee covered by the Wage Scales
set out in Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement shall be
entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding 21 days provided
that
a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate
from a registered medical practitioner (unless
waived by his Employer) and
b) The Employee shall not be on probation within the
meaning of Clause 5 hereof. Provided however,
that an Employee who has been on probation shall
as from the date of confirmation in respect of the
remainder of the first year of employment be entitled
to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is
confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and Sick
Leave not exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed
after nine (9) months’ probation.
2) In any year an employee recruited to the permanent cadre
of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June Two Thousand
and Eight and for new employees recruited directly under
the Employer covered by the Wage Scale set out in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement shall be entitled to Sick
Leave not exceeding 7 days provided that
a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate from
a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by
his Employer) and
b) The Employee shall not be on probation within the
meaning of Clause 5 hereof. Provided however, that
an Employee who has been on probation shall as
from the date of confirmation in respect of the
remainder of the first year of employment be entitled
to Sick Leave not exceeding five (05) days if he is
confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and Sick
Leave not exceeding three (03) days if he is confirmed
after nine (9) months’ probation.
15. Monthly consolidated wages in lieu of CCPI
Consolidation :
1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 hereof each
Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly
consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of
consolidated wages set out in Schedules 1 and 2
hereto.
2 ) The scales of consolidated wages set out in
Schedules 1 and 2 hereto include the Statutory
Allowances as at the date of this Agreement.
3) The wages of employees who are in employment as
at the date of this Agreement and for whom provision
has been made in the wage scales set out in
schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement will be revised
as follows:
a) A sum of Rs 900/- would be added to the wages
payable to each employee with effect from the
First day of September Two Thousand and
Eighteen,
b) A sum of Rs 900/- would be added to the wages
payable to each employee with effect from the
First day of September Two Thousand and
Nineteen,
c) A sum of Rs 900/- would be added to the wages
payable to each employee with effect from the
First day of September Two Thousand and
Twenty.
4) Employees recruited to the permanent cadre of
Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June Two Thousand
and Eight and for new employees recruited directly
under the Employer, and for whom provision has
been made in the Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3
hereto, shall not be covered by the provisions of
this Clause and therefore would not be entitled to
the aforementioned payments.
16. Conversion to scales of monthly consolidated wages :
1) For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an
employee shall receive with effect from the First day of
November Two Thousand and Seventeen on the basis
of the consolidated wages set out in Schedules 1, 2 and
3 hereto the following provisions shall apply:
a) To the monthly consolidated wage payable to an
employee as at the Thirty First day of October
Two Thousand and Seventeen an amount equal to
14% of the wage payable to such employee as at
the date shall be added.
b) The monthly consolidated wage of an employee
who has a service of more than five (05) years in
the permanent cadre of the Company as at the
Thirty First day of October Two Thousand and
Seventeen and whose consolidated wage
consequent on the increase referred to in (a) is
less than Rupees Twenty Thousand will be revised
to Rupees Twenty Thousand with effect from the
First day of November Two Thousand and
Seventeen.
c) The monthly consolidated wage of an employee
who has a service of less than five (05) years in the
permanent cadre of the Company as at the Thirty
First day of October Two Thousand and Seventeen
and whose consolidated wage consequent on the
increase referred to in (a) is less than Rupees
Eighteen Thousand will be revised to Rupees
Eighteen Thousand with effect from the First day
of November Two Thousand and Seventeen.
2 ) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the
corresponding point of the wage scales set out in
Schedules 1, 2 and 3 in the scale and grade applicable to
him. If there is no corresponding point he shall be placed
on the next highest point on the same scale and grade in
monetary terms.
3) The monthly consolidated wage of an employee recruited
to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First
June Two Thousand and Eight and for new employees
recruited directly under the Employer and who are in
employment at the date of signing hereof, and for whom
provision has been made in the Wage Scale set out in
Schedule 3 hereto will be increased by the addition of
Rupees seven hundred and fifty (Rs. 750/-) with effect
from the first day of November Two Thousand Eighteen.
4) The monthly consolidated wage of an employee recruited
to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First
June Two Thousand and Eight and for new employees
recruited directly under the Employer and who are in
employment at the date of signing hereof, and for whom
provision has been made in the Wage Scale set out in
Schedule 3 hereto will be increased by the addition of
Rupees seven hundred and fifty (Rs. 750/-) with effect
from the first day of November Two Thousand Nineteen.
5) The increases referred to in (3) and (4) will not be
applicable to employees for whom provision has been
made in the Wage Scales set out in Schedules 1 and 2
hereto.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
6) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement
the Government of Sri Lanka-
a) prescribes increases in wages by any written law
applicable to categories covered by this Agreement
legally obliging the Employer to make such
payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in
wages prescribed by such written law and in terms
of such written law;
b) recommends increases in wages such
recommendations will not be applicable to the
Employer, irrespective of whether or not such
recommendations are applicable to categories
covered by this Agreement.
17. Productivity   Bonus   Scheme
The Employer will continue to pay a Productivity Bonus
in accordance with the Productivity Bonus Schemes set
out in Schedules 4 and 5 of this Agreement. The norms
mentioned in Schedule 4 will be the level of production
to be achieved by the employees on a daily basis during
normal working hours.
18. Attendance  Bonus  Scheme
Employees who are not entitled to receive a payment
under the Productivity Bonus Scheme set out in Clause
17 and schedules 4 and 5 of this Agreement shall be
entitled to receive an Attendance Bonus of Rs. 3,000/-
per month provided that the said employee reports for
work on at least 80% of his normal working days. An
employee who registers any unauthorized absence will
not be entitled to any payment under this clause in
respect of that particular month.
19. Wages for periods less than one month
For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any
employee for periods less than one month shall be
computed in the manner following:
a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by
two hundred and forty (240)
b) for one day the monthly wage divided
by thirty (30)
c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as
(either morning ab ove divided by two (2)
or afternoon)
d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as
above multiplied by seven (7)
20. Annual lump sum payment in lieu of Non-recurring
cost of living gratuity
1) A lump sum payment on an ex gratia basis would
be made to the employees for whom provision has
been made in the Wage Scales set out in Schedules
1 and 2 on the following basis:
a) A sum of Rs 16,500/- payable in September
2018 for the period 01 September 2017 to
31 August 2018,
b) A sum of Rs 16,500/- payable in September
2019 for the period 01 September 2018 to
31 August 2019,
c) A sum of Rs 16,500/- payable in September
2020 for the period 01 September 2019 to 31
August 2020.
2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any
other payment shall be due or calculated on these
ex-gratia payments.
3) Employees recruited to the permanent cadre of
Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June 2008 and new
employees recruited directly under the Employer
and for whom provision has been made in the
Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3 hereto, shall not
be covered by the provisions of this Clause and
therefore would not be entitled to the
aforementioned payments.
21. Provident Fund
The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the
Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’
Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.
22. Terminal Benefits
The Employer will pay terminal benefits to Employees in
accordance with the Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
23. Bonus
1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and
without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that
bonus payment in the past and as provided in this
Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of
his employees a bonus which will not be less than
the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the
year immediately preceding the signing of the
Agreement. If in any year the Employer, in his
discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less
than the sum of money paid to each of his
Employees as bonus for the year immediately
preceding the signing of this Agreement the Union
may canvas such reduction of bonus with the
Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied
by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue
this matter with the Employers Federation of
Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus
is not settled with the Federation, the same shall
be referred to a committee of three (3) persons
(hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus committee’)
which shall be constituted in accordance with the
provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement in the
manner hereinafter set forth.
2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute
as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner
General of Labour will constitute a Bonus
Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior
accountants nominated by the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons
with at least ten (10) years’ post qualification
experience. The selection of the three Chartered
Accountants will be communicated by the Institute
of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner
General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to
the Federation. Thereupon the Commissioner
General of Labour will communicate in writing to
each member of the Bonus Committee so
constituted a statement of principles and
procedures by which the members of the Bonus
Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute
as to the reduction of Bonus.
3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement
of the principles and procedures from the
Commissioner General of Labour the Bonus
Committee shall in accordance with the said
principles and procedures decide whether the
reduction of the bonus by the Employer was
justified and if the reduction was not justified to
what extent, if any, the bonus should be reduced.
The Bonus Committee shall communicate its
decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the
Federation and the Commissioner General of
Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is
unanimous, such decision shall be final and binding
on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or
its members shall not pursue the matter further by
any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during
the continuance in force of this Agreement. If,
however, the Bonus Committee is divided in its
decision then the decision of the Commissioner
General of Labour on the matter shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the
Commissioner General’s decision shall be
communicated in writing to the Federation, and
the Union or its members shall not pursue the
matter further by any form of Trade Union action
or otherwise during the continuance in force of
this Agreement.
4) The Bonus committee shall not be entitled nor be
competent to decide that in any year the Employer
should pay his Employees a bonus exceeding the
sum of money paid as bonus in the year
immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement.
5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus
committee shall be borne equally by the parties to
the dispute as to the reduction of bonus and be
payable on demand by the Commissioner General
of Labour.
6) The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of
money paid as bonus to employees in the year
immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the
Employer and shall not be called in question by
the Union and/or its members nor shall the
Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be
the subject of any dispute.
7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) and
(6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus
scheme.
8) At the request of the Commissioner General of
Labour the Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka will nominate three (3)
chartered accountants with not less than ten (10)
years of post-qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the
Bonus Committee.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
24. Annual Increments
1) The annual increments provided in each grade of
the scales of consolidated wages in Schedules 1, 2
and 3 shall be automatic, unless as a matter of
punishment for general inefficiency including
irregular attendance or unpunctuality or
disciplinary action on account of serious
misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped
or deferred in which case where an increment is -
a) deferred, the loss of increment shall be
continuous throughout the year;
b) stopped, the loss of increment shall only be
for the period of stoppage during the year;
c) suspended, the increment is suspended
pending a decision to defer or stop an
increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving
rise to the suspension. Where on such
decision an increment is neither stopped nor
deferred, then the suspension shall be
treated as waived and the full increment from
the date of suspension thereof shall occur
to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an
increment shall only be effected in cases where
the Employee has been notified, in writing of a
complaint against such Employee and has been
found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud
or misconduct which in the circumstances does
not merit termination of employment.
2) The incremental rates as stipulated in respect of
the consolidated scales of wages set out in
Schedules 1, 2 and 3 hereof and/or may be revised
thereafter in terms of Clause 15 (3) shall be as set
out hereunder.
Schedule 1
Grade III 10 x Rs. 110/-
10 x Rs. 116/-
179 x Rs. 127/-
Grade II 199 x Rs. 88/-
Grade I 199 x Rs. 72/-
Schedule 1
Skilled 149 x Rs .138/-
Semi-skilled 149 x Rs. 116/-
Unskilled 149 x Rs .72/-
Schedule 1
Class B 99 x Rs .116/-
Class G 99 x Rs. 72/-
Schedule 2
Grade 3 10 x Rs. 110/-
l0 x Rs. 116/-
79 x Rs. 127/-
Grade 2 99 x Rs. 88/-
Grade 1 99 x Rs. 72/-
Schedule 3
Grade 3 10 x Rs. 110/-
l0  x Rs. 116/-
79 x Rs. 127/-
Grade 2 99 x Rs.  88/-
Grade 1 99 x Rs. 72/-
Class B 149  x Rs. 116/-
3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of
changing the incremental date of an Employee.
25. Warnings
If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a
warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the
Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate
the warning may be given to the Employee orally by the
Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
26. Suspension
1) An employee may be suspended without pay by his
Employer -
a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on
a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants
dismissal;

<!-- page 19 -->

19AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage
to the property or disturbance of business of the
Employer;
c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not
exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (l)(a) or
within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall
provide the Employee with a written order of suspension
specifying the reasons for such suspension and
thereafter, hold an inquiry into the charge or charges in
terms of clause 27 hereof.
27. Disciplinary Action
Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an
Employee then -
1) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been
suspended under clause 26 hereof or not, the
Employee shall be furnished with a show cause
notice which shall set out the particulars of the
charge or charges of misconduct alleged against
such Employee and such show cause notice shall
give the Employee not less than five (5) clear working
days in which to give the answer or explanation to
the charge or charges preferred.
2) Within five (5) clear working days after the date of
the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish
in writing to the Employer the answer or explanation
to the charges preferred against such Employee.
Provided however that if in the circumstances it is
reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for
an extension of time within which to furnish a written
answer or explanation to the show cause notice and
where such request is made by the Employee to the
Employer, the Employer shall grant such request for
such further period of time as is deemed necessary
in the circumstances of the case.
3) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer
or explanation of the Employee the Employee shall,
if he is under suspension forthwith be reinstated
and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for
the period of such suspension.
4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written
answer or explanation of the Employee to the show
cause notice and such answer or explanation is
rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall
commence an inquiry within fourteen (14) working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written
answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify
the Employee of the findings on each of the charges
in the show cause notice and the punishment, if
any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the
Employer fails to make an order except for reasons
beyond the control of the Employer on the charges
in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working
days from the conclusion of the inquiry into such
charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be
punished thereafter in respect of such charges and
no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of
such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6 ) If the employee is under suspension and the
Employer after such inquiry makes order that -
a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the
Employee shall resume employment forthwith
and shall subject to the provisions of sub-
clause 26(1 )(c) hereof be paid all wages and
entitlements due for the period of suspension
irrespective of such other punishment less
than dismissal that may be imposed by the
Employer on the findings as to the charges in
the show cause notice;
b) the employee shall be dismissed, the
Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the
date of the Employee’s suspension and
accordingly the Employee shall not be paid
for the period of such suspension;
c) in view of the serious or involved nature of
the charges in the show cause notice against
the Employee, the Employer is unable to make
a  final order as its is necessary and desirable
that the matter be referred to the Police or other
authorities for further investigations or
inquiries and that the matter be therefore
referred to the Police or other authorities or if
in view of the serious or involved nature of
the charges preferred against the Employee
the matter had been previously referred to the
Police or other authorities for investigations
or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
either of such circumstances the employee
may remain suspended without pay.
7) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as
provided for herein the Employer fails to make order
under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-
clause for any reason other than that of the
Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from the date of the Employee’s suspension,
the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal
remuneration for a period of thirty (30) days from
the date of such suspension and to his full
remuneration for the period of suspension in excess
of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the
Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to
(c) of the preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the
outcome of the inquiry.
8) In any case where the employee is suspended as
provided herein, the Employer shall make an order
under paragraphs (a) to (c) of sub clause 6 within
ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the
Employee unless he is prevented from so doing by
reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons
beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed
between the Employer and the Union that in the
circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90)
days be extended for such further time as may be
agreed.
9) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry
as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where
the Employer proposes to warn the Employee or
where the Employee admits to the charge or charges.
Provided however, that if the Union disputes the
warning or punishment imposed on the Employee
by the Employer and requests the holding of an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request
and the provisions relating to the holding of an
inquiry shall then apply subject to the exception
that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced
within fourteen (14) working days after the receipt
of the Employee’s explanation shall not be material
or relevant.
10) The Employer may, as an alternative to more serious
disciplinary action, recover from an employee the
cost of damage to or loss of the Employer’s goods
or property, or a percentage thereof, caused through
the negligence of the employee as determined at a
domestic inquiry or on the admission of the
Employee.
28. Retirment
On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an
Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be
employed by the Employer and there shall be no
obligation on the Employer to give the Employee
any notice of such retirement. Provided however,
that an Employee who has retired may, in the
discretion of the Employer, be employed after his
retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
29. Termination of Services
1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire
of any Employee by the Employer except for work
usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by
the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause
5 hereof or unless otherwise expressly stipulated)
be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire
and service for the period of one month and to be
renewable from month to month and shall be deemed
and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one
month’s previous notice be given by either party to
the other of his intention to determine the same and
such month has expired.
2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job
or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall
be informed thereof at the commencement of his
employment and his contract of service will terminate
on the completion of the job or period or the failure
of the Employee to complete the job within
reasonable time.
30. Union Recognition
The Union shall be competent to make representations
on behalf of any of its members bound by this agreement
who is employed in any workplace of the Employer bound
by this Agreement. In regard to issues of general
application or to the effect of principle such as matters
affecting general terms and conditions of employment
either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the
following provisions shall apply.
1) When the Union is representative of not less that
forty per cent (40%) of the employees whose
membership subscription is not in arrears, the
Employer of such employees will recognize the
Union for the purpose of general claims and matters
and negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any
other Union which is also representative of not

<!-- page 21 -->

21AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
less than forty percent (40%) of such employees
the Employer will be at liberty to require that
general claims and matters be discussed and
negotiated with the Union competent to make
general demands by virtue of the requisite
membership and not separately with each such
Union.
2) When the Employer carries on more than one type
of business or has more than one workplace and
the claim or matter is restricted to one type of
business or one workplace but is applicable or
capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the
Union to make such claims or raise such matter
shall be determined by reference to the duly
qualified members of such Union in proportion to
the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question
whether at the establishment of the Employer the
Union is, competent to make general claims or raise
general matters, the same shall be determined by a
referendum which shall be held by the Department
of Labour and the result of such referendum shall
be binding on the Employer and the Union and the
parties hereto.
31. Disputes Procedure
1) In the first instance the Union shall submit any
demand on behalf of its members to the Employer
of such members and give the Employer at least
ten (10) working days’ time within which to reply.
If in the Union’s opinion the Employer’s reply is
unsatisfactory the Union and the Employer shall
explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
2) When the union concludes that negotiations with
the Employer and the Employers’ Federation of
Ceylon have been abortive it shall ask the
Department of Labour to intervene and give the
Department not less than ten (10) working days to
arrange conference and/or discussions with a view
to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under
the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then
proceed until the Department of Labour reports
failure.
3) Subject to the provisions of clause 33 hereof all
disputes between the Union and the Employer or
between the parties hereto shall be settled in
accordance with the provisions of the Industrial
Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate,
support or engage in any unfair labour practice
during the currency of this Agreement.
32. How Anomalies in the course of implementing this
Agreement shall be delat with
Any anomaly, arising from the implementation of this
Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the
Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be
settled by negotiation, it shall be settled in accordance
with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and
the regulations made thereunder.
33. Trade Union Action
The Union and the Employees jointly and severally
agree with the Employer that during the continuance in
force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any
strike or other form of trade union action against the
Employer, in respect of any dispute between the Union
or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such
dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such
dispute has been caused by an act of the Employer
which in the opinion of the controlling body (by
whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or
vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the
existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and/or
its members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental
to the interest of the Union and/or its members. Provided
however that at least seven (7) days’ notice in writing
shall be given by the Union to the Employer, the
Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour
before the date of commencement of any intended strike
or other form of trade union action consequent upon an
act of the Employer which in the opinion of the
controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the
Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten
or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of
the Union and/or its members is grossly unfair or
seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/or
its members.
34. Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment
and Benefits
1) The Union and the Employees jointly and severally
agree with the Employer that during the
continuance in force of this Agreement they will

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently
applicable to any of the Employees covered and
bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in
terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits
presently enjoyed by any of the Employees
covered and bound by this Agreement other than
by mutual agreement.
2) The Employer agrees with the Union and the
Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary,
alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently
enjoyed by the Employees other than by mutual
agreement.
3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations
under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be
resolved by voluntary arbitration but only if all the
parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute
or difference for settlement by voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING   THE   FACILITIES  AND  CONCESSIONS
GRANTED   BY  THE   EMPLOYER  TO  THE   UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement
If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the
Union shall commit a breach of any of the terms of this
Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall
cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and
concessions granted by the Employer in the succeeding
clauses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn
without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore such
facilities and concessions upon such terms and
conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries
If an employee who is fiirnished with a show cause notice
in terms of Clause 27 is a member of the Union, the
following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by
the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice -
a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided,
allow another member of the Union (hereinafter
referred to as ‘an Observer’) to be present as an
observer without loss of wages for absence from
work,
b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause
notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the
inquiry to be held pursuant to such show cause
notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before
the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such
Observer.
c) An Observer may answer any questions which
the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him,
but an Observer shall not be entitled to represent
the Employee who is served with a show cause
notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be
entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such
inquiry, in any manner whatsoever to withdraw
therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply
with such requirement.
e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part
of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not
vitiate such inquiry, nor the proceedings there at,
nor the findings pursuant thereto.
Union Meetings
The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union:
a) In respect of each meeting, which the Union desires to
hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for
permission shall be previously made to the Employer.
b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the
Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or
more of the undernoted conditions :
(i) that no person other than an employee in the service
of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of
the Union;
(ii) on occasions such as the Annual General meeting
of the Union, office bearers of the Parent Union
may, with the previous approval of the Employer,
attend;
(iii) fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union
shall be concluded or adjourned.
c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to
ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a
meeting of the Union is granted are duly complied with,
d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to
ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or

<!-- page 23 -->

23AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
in connection with a meeting of the Union to the
Employer’s property or any other person at the
Employer’s premises and the Union shall indemnify the
Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against
any such damage.
4. Duty Leave
1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse
to grant permission if, in his discretion the exigencies of
the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will
generally grant permission for not less than two Office
Bearers of the Union -
a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis
of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of
Ceylon or the Department of Labour in connection
with a dispute between the Union and the
Employer,
or
b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts,
arbitrators or Labour Tribunals - without loss of
wages for such absence.
2) The Employer shall provide the President and the
Secretary one day’s duty leave per month to attend
meetings at the Union Headquarters in connection with
Union activities if required to do so by the Union. The
Employer shall be informed of such meetings at least 48
hours before the meeting and written approval should
be obtained from the management.
3) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without
remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union
course or seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or
abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to
annual or other holidays, which he wishes to utilize for
the purpose.
4) The Employer shall grant a day’s duty leave to for the
branch committee not exceeding fourteen (14) employees
to attend the Annual Convention of the Parent Union.
However, the Employer shall be informed of such
meetings at least 48 hours before the meeting and written
approval should be obtained from the management.
5. Check-Off
1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject
to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the
Union represents no less than forty (40) percent of
the Employees covered and bound by this
Collective Agreement.
2) The Employer shall on the written request of an
Employee deduct from the wages due to such
Employees the current monthly Union dues as are
specified by the Employee to be payable monthly
by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount
so deducted to the Union in accordance with the
procedure and upon and subject to the conditions
hereinafter set forth.
3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of
Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement
to that effect in the form set out in Form No. 1
referred to as an ‘Authorization’.
4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his
agreement to check-off at any time by signing a
statement to that effect in the form set out in Form
No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a ‘Revocation’.
5 ) As far as practicable deduction under an
authorization shall commence from the wages due
immediately after the date of receipt of such
authorization and shall continue thereafter until
the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
6 ) As far as practicable deductions under an
authorization shall cease from the date of receipt
of a revocation canceling such authorization.
Provided however -
a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any
manner whatsoever to the Union or the
Employee concerned for failure to comply
with sub-clause 5 or 6;
b) that at his discretion the Employer shall be
entitled not to make deductions by way of
check-off in any month in which the
deductions from the Employee’s wages in
that month exceed the deduction permitted
by Law;
7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10
th)
day of each month remit the Union dues deducted
from the wages of the Employees in the month
99 x Rs 116/-99 x Rs 116/-99 x Rs 116/-

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the
Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer
thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union
and the Employees concerned by post in a prepaid
envelope addressed to the Treasurer of the Union
at its address for the time being.
9 ) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly
acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union
or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum
other than the Union’s dues actually deducted.
FORM   No.  1
Name of Employer: HAYLEYS   AGRICULTURE   HOLDINGS
                                         LIMITED
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an Employee working at the factory at 168/D
Brahmanagama, Kottawa, of the Employer covered and bound
by the HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE  HOLDINGS  LIMITED
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT  2017 and I desire to avail myself
of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective
Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the INTER
COMPANY  EMPLOYEES’  UNION, please deduct from my
wages each month a sum of Rupees..............................................
(Rs. ) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to
the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf.
The first payment should please be made from my wages due
immediately following the date hereof.
......................... .........................,
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
......................... .........................
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on..........................
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM   No.   2
Name of Employer: HAYLEYS   AGRICULTURE    HOLDINGS
                                       LIMITED
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please
cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues
in favour of INTER   COMPANY   EMPLOYEES’   UNION with
effect from the wages next due to me immediately following
the date hereof :
......................... .........................,
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
......................... .........................
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on.........................
(To be filled by the Employer)
PART   III
CONTAINING   DEFINITIONS   OF   CERTAIN   WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the
Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning
set opposite to them.
WORDS                             MEANING
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory at
168/D Brahmanagama, Kottawa
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in
terms of Clause 5 of Part II the
subscriptions payable to the Union by
an employee from the latter’s pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the
Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by
this Agreement
(For convenience
sometimes referred
to as ‘he’ or its
grammatical
variations)
Employer HA YLEYS   AGRICULTURE
HOLDINGS   LIMITED   (PB  575)
Federation Employers’ Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes The Industrial Disputes
Act Act, No. 43 of 1950

<!-- page 25 -->

25AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
Normal Incremental The date on which an employee
Date would normally  receive an
increment
Relevant Wages The Wages Board which covers
Board  the Trade in which the particular
employee is employed in.
Union Inter Company Employees’ Union
Wage The monthly wage according to the
scales of wages set out in
Schedules 1, 2.and 3 hereto.
Week The period between midnight on
any Saturday night and midnight
on the succeeding Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12)
months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the
feminine
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural
and vice versa
Schedule I
Wages scales applicable to Hayleys Agricutlure Holdings Ltd- Kottawa Factory Production, Stores & Allied Manual,
Workers with effect from 1st September 2017
Stage GR - I GR - II GR- III
In witness hereof parties have hereunto set their hands on
this Tenth day of August Two Thousand and Eighteen at
Colombo.
for and on behalf of for and on behalf of
HAYLEYS   AGRICULTURE INTER   COMPANY
HOLDINGS   LIMITED EMPLOYEES’   UNION
Name: Name:
Designation: Designation:
WITNESSES:
1. 1.
Name: Name:
Designation: Designation:
2. 2.
Name: Name:
Designation: Designation:
1 18,117.00
2 18,189.00
3 18,261.00
4 18,333.00
5 18,405.00
6 18,477.00
7 18,549.00
8 18,621.00
9 18,693.00
10 18,765.00
11 18,837.00
12 18,909.00
13 18,981.00
14 19,053.00
15 19,125.00
16 19,197.00
17 19,269.00
18 19,341.00
18,137.00
18.225.00
18.313.00
18.401.00
18.489.00
18.577.00
18.665.00
18.753.00
18.841.00
18.929.00
19.017.00
19.105.00
19.193.00
19.281.00
19.369.00
19.457.00
19.545.00
19.633.00
18,162.00
18.272.00
18.382.00
18.492.00
18.602.00
18.712.00
18.822.00
18.932.00
19.042.00
19.152.00
19.262.00
19.378.00
19.494.00
19.610.00
19.726.00
19.842.00
19.958.00
20.074.00
199 x 72.00 199 x 88.00 10  x 110.00
10 x 116.00

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
Stage GR -I GR - II GR - III
19 19,413.00
20 19,485.00
21 19,557.00
22 19,629.00
23 19,701.00
24 19,773.00
25 19,845.00
26 19,917.00
27 19,989.00
28 20,061.00
29 20,133.00
30 20,205.00
31 20,277.00
32 20,349.00
33 20,421.00
34 20,493.00
35 20,565.00
36 20,637.00
37 20,709.00
38 20,781.00
39 20,853.00
40 20,925.00
41 20,997.00
42 21,069.00
43 21,141.00
44 21,213.00
45 21,285.00
46 21,357.00
47 21,429.00
48 21,501.00
49 21,573.00
50 21,645.00
51 21,717.00
52 21,789.00
53 21,861.00
54 21,933.00
55 22,005.00
56 22,077.00
57 22,149.00
58 22,221.00
59 22,293.00
60 22,365.00
61 22,437.00
62 22,509.00
63 22,581.00
64 22,653.00
65 22,725.00
66 22,797.00
67 22,869.00
68 22,941.00
69 23,013.00
70 23,085.00
19.721.00
19.809.00
19.897.00
19.985.00
20.073.00
20.161.00
20.249.00
20.337.00
20.425.00
20.513.00
20.601.00
20.689.00
20.777.00
20.865.00
20.953.00
21.041.00
21.129.00
21.217.00
21.305.00
21.393.00
21.481.00
21.569.00
21.657.00
21.745.00
21.833.00
21.921.00
22.009.00
22.097.00
22.185.00
22.273.00
22.361.00
22.449.00
22,537.00
22,625.00
22,713.00
22,801.00
22,889.00
22,977.00
23,065.00
23,153.00
23,241.00
23,329.00
23,417.00
23,505.00
23,593.00
23,681.00
23,769.00
23,857.00
23,945.00
24,033.00
24,121.00
24,209.00
20.190.00
20.306.00
20.422.00
20.549.00
20.676.00
20.803.00
20.930.00
21.057.00
21.184.00
21.311.00
21.438.00
21.565.00
21.692.00
21.819.00
21.946.00
22.073.00
22.200.00
22.327.00
22.454.00
22.581.00
22.708.00
22.835.00
22.962.00
23.089.00
23.216.00
23.343.00
23.470.00
23.597.00
23.724.00
23.851.00
23.978.00
24.105.00
24,232.00
24,359.00
24,486.00
24,613.00
24,740.00
24,867.00
24,994.00
25,121.00
25,248.00
25,375.00
25,502.00
25,629.00
25,756.00
25,883.00
26,010.00
26,137.00
26,264.00
26,391.00
26,518.00
26,645.00
179 x 127.00

<!-- page 27 -->

27AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
71 23,157.00
72 23,229.00
73 23,301.00
74 23,373.00
75 23,445.00
76 23,517.00
77 23,589.00
78 23,661.00
79 23,733.00
80 23,805.00
81 23,877.00
82 23,949.00
83 24,021.00
84 24,093.00
85 24,165.00
86 24,237.00
87 24,309.00
88 24,381.00
89 24,453.00
90 24,525.00
91 24,597.00
92 24,669.00
93 24,741.00
94 24,813.00
95 24,885.00
96 24,957.00
97 25,029.00
98 25,101.00
99 25,173.00
100 25,245.00
101 25,317.00
102 25,389.00
103 25,461.00
104 25,533.00
105 25,605.00
106 25,677.00
107 25,749.00
108 25,821.00
109 25,893.00
110 25,965.00
111 26,037.00
112 26,109.00
113 26,181.00
114 26,253.00
115 26,325.00
116 26,397.00
117 26,469.00
118 26,541.00
119 26,613.00
120 26,685.00
121 26,757.00
122 26,829.00
24,297.00
24,385.00
24,473.00
24,561.00
24,649.00
24,737.00
24,825.00
24,913.00
25,001.00
25,089.00
25,177.00
25,265.00
25,353.00
25,441.00
25,529.00
25,617.00
25,705.00
25,793.00
25,881.00
25,969.00
26,057.00
26,145.00
26,233.00
26,321.00
26,409.00
26,497.00
26,585.00
26,673.00
26,761.00
26,849.00
26,937.00
27,025.00
27,113.00
27,201.00
27,289.00
27,377.00
27,465.00
27,553.00
27,641.00
27,729.00
27,817.00
27,905.00
27,993.00
28,081.00
28,169.00
28,257.00
28,345.00
28,433.00
28,521.00
28,609.00
28,697.00
28,785.00
26,772.00
26,899.00
27,026.00
27,153.00
27,280.00
27,407.00
27,534.00
27,661.00
27,788.00
27,915.00
28,042.00
28,169.00
28,296.00
28,423.00
28,550.00
28,677.00
28,804.00
28,931.00
29,058.00
29,185.00
29,312.00
29,439.00
29,566.00
29,693.00
29,820.00
29,947.00
30,074.00
30,201.00
30,328.00
30,455.00
30,582.00
30,709.00
30,836.00
30,963.00
31,090.00
31,217.00
31,344.00
31,471.00
31,598.00
31,725.00
31,852.00
31,979.00
32,106.00
32,233.00
32,360.00
32,487.00
32,614.00
32,741.00
32,868.00
32,995.00
33,122.00
33,249.00
Stage GR - I GR - II GR - III

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
123 26,901.00
124 26,973.00
125 27,045.00
126 27,117.00
127 27,189.00
128 27,261.00
129 27,333.00
130 27,405.00
131 27,477.00
132 27,549.00
133 27,621.00
134 27,693.00
135 27,765.00
136 27,837.00
137 27,909.00
138 27,981.00
139 28,053.00
140 28,125.00
141 28,197.00
142 28,269.00
143 28,341.00
144 28,413.00
145 28,485.00
146 28,557.00
147 28,629.00
148 28,701.00
149 28,773.00
150 28,845.00
151 28,917.00
152 28,989.00
153 29,061.00
154 29,133.00
155 29,205.00
156 29,277.00
157 29,349.00
158 29,421.00
159 29,493.00
160 29,565.00
161 29,637.00
162 29,709.00
163 29,781.00
164 29,853.00
165 29,925.00
166 29,997.00
167 30,069.00
168 30,141.00
169 30,213.00
170 30,285.00
171 30,357.00
172 30,429.00
173 30,501.00
28,873.00
28,961.00
29,049.00
29,137.00
29,225.00
29,313.00
29,401.00
29,489.00
29,577.00
29,665.00
29,753.00
29,841.00
29,929.00
30,017.00
30,105.00
30,193.00
30,281.00
30,369.00
30,457.00
30,545.00
30,633.00
30,721.00
30,809.00
30,897.00
30,985.00
31,073.00
31,161.00
31,249.00
31,337.00
31,425.00
31,513.00
31,601.00
31,689.00
31,777.00
31,865.00
31,953.00
32,041.00
32,129.00
32,217.00
32,305.00
32,393.00
32,481.00
32,569.00
32,657.00
32,745.00
32,833.00
32,921.00
33,009.00
33,097.00
33,185.00
33,273.00
33,376.00
33,503.00
33,630.00
33,757.00
33,884.00
34,011.00
34,138.00
34,265.00
34,392.00
34,519.00
34,646.00
34,773.00
34,900.00
35,027.00
35,154.00
35,281.00
35,408.00
35,535.00
35,662.00
35,789.00
35,916.00
36,043.00
36,170.00
36,297.00
36,424.00
36,551.00
36,678.00
36,805.00
36,932.00
37,059.00
37,186.00
37,313.00
37,440.00
37,567.00
37,694.00
37,821.00
37,948.00
38,075.00
38,202.00
38,329.00
38,456.00
38,583.00
38,710.00
38,837.00
38,964.00
39,091.00
39,218.00
39,345.00
39,472.00
39,599.00
39,726.00
Stage GR - I GR - II GR - III

<!-- page 29 -->

29AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
174 30,573.00
175 30,645.00
176 30,717.00
177 30,789.00
178 30,861.00
179 30,933.00
180 31,005.00
181 31,077.00
182 31,149.00
183 31,221.00
184 31,293.00
185 31,365.00
186 31,437.00
187 31,509.00
188 31,581.00
189 31,653.00
190 31,725.00
191 31,797.00
192 31,869.00
193 31,941.00
194 32,013.00
195 32,085.00
196 32,157.00
197 32,229.00
198 32,301.00
199 32,373.00
200 32,445.00
39,853.00
39,980.00
40,107.00
40,234.00
40,361.00
40,488.00
40,615.00
40,742.00
40,869.00
40,996.00
41,123.00
41,250.00
41,377.00
41,504.00
41,631.00
41,758.00
41,885.00
42,012.00
42,139.00
42,266.00
42,393.00
42,520.00
42,647.00
42,774.00
42,901.00
43,028.00
43,155.00
33,361.00
33,449.00
33,537.00
33,625.00
33,713.00
33,801.00
33,889.00
33,977.00
34,065.00
34,153.00
34,241.00
34,329.00
34,417.00
34,505.00
34,593.00
34,681.00
34,769.00
34,857.00
34,945.00
35,033.00
35,121.00
35,209.00
35,297.00
35,385.00
35,473.00
35,561.00
35,649.00
Stage GR - I GR - II GR - III
SCHEDULE 1
W AGE   SCALES   APPLICABLE   TO   HAYLEYS   AGRICULTURE   HOLDINGS   LTD - KOTTAW A   FACTORY
ENGINEERING   TRADE   WORKERS   WITH    EFFECT   FROM   1 SEPTEMBER   2017
1 18,117.00
2 18,189.00
3 18,261.00
4 18,333.00
5 18,405.00
6 18,477.00
7 18,549.00
8 18,621.00
9 18,693.00
10 18,765.00
11 18,837.00
12 18,909.00
13 18,981.00
14 19,053.00
15 19,125.00
16 19,197.00
Stage U-SK S-SK SK
149 x 72.00 18,142.00
18,258.00
18,374.00
18,490.00
18,606.00
18,722.00
18,838.00
18,954.00
19,070.00
19,186.00
19,302.00
19,418.00
19,534.00
19,650.00
19,766.00
19,882.00
18,227.00
18.365.00
18.503.00
18.641.00
18.779.00
18.917.00
19.055.00
19.193.00
19.331.00
19.469.00
19.607.00
19.745.00
19.883.00
20.021.00
20.159.00
20.297.00
149 x 138.00149 x 116.00

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
17 19,269.00
18 19,341.00
19 19,413.00
20 19,485.00
21 19,557.00
22 19,629.00
23 19,701.00
24 19,773.00
25 19,845.00
26 19,917.00
27 19,989.00
28 20,061.00
29 20,133.00
30 20,205.00
31 20,277.00
32 20,349.00
33 20,421.00
34 20,493.00
35 20,565.00
36 20,637.00
37 20,709.00
38 20,781.00
39 20,853.00
40 20,925.00
41 20,997.00
42 21,069.00
43 21,141.00
44 21,213.00
45 21,285.00
46 21,357.00
47 21,429.00
48 21,501.00
49 21,573.00
50 21,645.00
51 21,717.00
52 21,789.00
53 21,861.00
54 21,933.00
55 22,005.00
56 22,077.00
57 22,149.00
58 22,221.00
59 22,293.00
60 22,365.00
61 22,437.00
62 22,509.00
63 22,581.00
64 22,653.00
65 22,725.00
66 22,797.00
67 22,869.00
68 22,941.00
19,998.00
20,114.00
20,230.00
20,346.00
20,462.00
20,578.00
20,694.00
20,810.00
20,926.00
21,042.00
21,158.00
21,274.00
21,390.00
21,506.00
21,622.00
21,738.00
21,854.00
21,970.00
22,086.00
22,202.00
22,318.00
22,434.00
22,550.00
22,666.00
22,782.00
22,898.00
23,014.00
23,130.00
23,246.00
23,362.00
23,478.00
23,594.00
23,710.00
23,826.00
23,942.00
24,058.00
24,174.00
24,290.00
24,406.00
24,522.00
24,638.00
24,754.00
24,870.00
24,986.00
25,102.00
25,218.00
25,334.00
25,450.00
25,566.00
25,682.00
25,798.00
25,914.00
20,435.00
20,573.00
20,711.00
20,849.00
20,987.00
21,125.00
21,263.00
21,401.00
21,539.00
21,677.00
21,815.00
21,953.00
22,091.00
22,229.00
22,367.00
22,505.00
22,643.00
22,781.00
22,919.00
23,057.00
23,195.00
23,333.00
23,471.00
23,609.00
23,747.00
23,885.00
24,023.00
24,161.00
24,299.00
24,437.00
24,575.00
24,713.00
24,851.00
24,989.00
25,127.00
25,265.00
25,403.00
25,541.00
25,679.00
25,817.00
25,955.00
26,093.00
26,231.00
26,369.00
26,507.00
26,645.00
26,783.00
26,921.00
27,059.00
27,197.00
27,335.00
27,473.00
Stage U- SK S-SK SK

<!-- page 31 -->

31AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
69 23,013.00
70 23,085.00
71 23,157.00
72 23,229.00
73 23,301.00
74 23,373.00
75 23,445.00
76 23,517.00
77 23,589.00
78 23,661.00
79 23,733.00
80 23,805.00
81 23,877.00
82 23,949.00
83 24,021.00
84 24,093.00
85 24,165.00
86 24,237.00
87 24,309.00
88 24,381.00
89 24,453.00
90 24,525.00
91 24,597.00
92 24,669.00
93 24,741.00
94 24,813.00
95 24,885.00
96 24,957.00
97 25,029.00
98 25,101.00
99 25,173.00
100 25,245.00
101 25,317.00
102 25,389.00
103 25,461.00
104 25,533.00
105 25,605.00
106 25,677.00
107 25,749.00
108 25,821.00
109 25,893.00
110 25,965.00
111 26,037.00
112 26,109.00
113 26,181.00
114 26,253.00
115 26,325.00
116 26,397.00
117 26,469.00
118 26,541.00
119 26,613.00
120 26,685.00
26,030.00
26,146.00
26,262.00
26,378.00
26,494.00
26,610.00
26,726.00
26,842.00
26,958.00
27,074.00
27,190.00
27,306.00
27,422.00
27,538.00
27,654.00
27,770.00
27,886.00
28,002.00
28,118.00
28,234.00
28,350.00
28,466.00
28,582.00
28,698.00
28,814.00
28,930.00
29,046.00
29,162.00
29,278.00
29,394.00
29,510.00
29,626.00
29,742.00
29,858.00
29,974.00
30,090.00
30,206.00
30,322.00
30,438.00
30,554.00
30,670.00
30,786.00
30,902.00
31,018.00
31,134.00
31,250.00
31,366.00
31,482.00
31,598.00
31,714.00
31,830.00
31,946.00
27,611.00
27,749.00
27,887.00
28,025.00
28,163.00
28,301.00
28,439.00
28,577.00
28,715.00
28,853.00
28,991.00
29,129.00
29,267.00
29,405.00
29,543.00
29,681.00
29,819.00
29,957.00
30,095.00
30,233.00
30,371.00
30,509.00
30,647.00
30,785.00
30,923.00
31,061.00
31,199.00
31,337.00
31,475.00
31,613.00
31,751.00
31,889.00
32,027.00
32,165.00
32,303.00
32,441.00
32,579.00
32,717.00
32,855.00
32,993.00
33,131.00
33,269.00
33,407.00
33,545.00
33,683.00
33,821.00
33,959.00
34,097.00
34,235.00
34,373.00
34,511.00
34,649.00
Stage U-SK S-SK SK

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
121 26,757.00
122 26,829.00
123 26,901.00
124 26,973.00
125 27,045.00
126 27,117.00
127 27,189.00
128 27,261.00
129 27,333.00
130 27,405.00
131 27,477.00
132 27,549.00
133 27,621.00
134 27,693.00
135 27,765.00
136 27,837.00
137 27,909.00
138 27,981.00
139 28,053.00
140 28,125.00
141 28,197.00
142 28,269.00
143 28,341.00
144 28,413.00
145 28,485.00
146 28,557.00
147 28,629.00
148 28,701.00
149 28,773.00
150 28,845.00
32,062.00
32,178.00
32,294.00
32,410.00
32,526.00
32,642.00
32,758.00
32,874.00
32,990.00
33,106.00
33,222.00
33,338.00
33,454.00
33,570.00
33,686.00
33,802.00
33,918.00
34,034.00
34,150.00
34,266.00
34,382.00
34,498.00
34,614.00
34,730.00
34,846.00
34,962.00
35,078.00
35,194.00
35,310.00
35,426.00
34,787.00
34,925.00
35,063.00
35,201.00
35,339.00
35,477.00
35,615.00
35,753.00
35,891.00
36,029.00
36,167.00
36,305.00
36,443.00
36,581.00
36,719.00
36,857.00
36,995.00
37,133.00
37,271.00
37,409.00
37,547.00
37,685.00
37,823.00
37,961.00
38,099.00
38,237.00
38,375.00
38,513.00
38,651.00
38,789.00
Stage U-SK S-SK SK
Scheule  1
W AGE   SCALES   APPLICABLE   TO    HAYLEYS    AGRICULTURE    HOLDINGS   LTD -
KOTTAW A     FACTORY
MOTOR    TRANSPORT    TRADE   WORKERS   WITH    EFFECT   FROM   1 SEPTEMBER   2017
Stage Class
-- B Class -- G
1 18,202.00
2 18,318.00
3 18,434.00
4 18,550.00
5 18,666.00
6 18,782.00
7 18,898.00
8 19,014.00
9 19,130.00
10 19,246.00
11 19,362.00
12 19,478.00
13 19,594.00
18,132.00
18,204.00
18,276.00
18,348.00
18,420.00
18,492.00
18,564.00
18,636.00
18,708.00
18,780.00
18,852.00
18,924.00
18,996.00
99 x 116.00 99 x 72.00

<!-- page 33 -->

33AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
14 19,710.00
15 19,826.00
16 19,942.00
17 20,058.00
18 20,174.00
19 20,290.00
20 20,406.00
21 20,522.00
22 20,638.00
23 20,754.00
24 20,870.00
25 20,986.00
26 21,102.00
27 21,218.00
28 21,334.00
29 21,450.00
30 21,566.00
31 21,682.00
32 21,798.00
33 21,914.00
34 22,030.00
35 22,146.00
36 22,262.00
37 22,378.00
38 22,494.00
39 22,610.00
40 22,726.00
41 22,842.00
42 22,958.00
43 23,074.00
44 23,190.00
45 23,306.00
46 23,422.00
47 23,538.00
48 23,654.00
49 23,770.00
50 23,886.00
51 24,002.00
52 24,118.00
53 24,234.00
54 24,350.00
55 24,466.00
56 24,582.00
57 24,698.00
58 24,814.00
59 24,930.00
60 25,046.00
61 25,162.00
62 25,278.00
63 25,394.00
64 25,510.00
65 25,626.00
19,068.00
19,140.00
19,212.00
19,284.00
19,356.00
19,428.00
19,500.00
19,572.00
19,644.00
19,716.00
19,788.00
19,860.00
19,932.00
20,004.00
20,076.00
20,148.00
20,220.00
20,292.00
20,364.00
20,436.00
20,508.00
20,580.00
20,652.00
20,724.00
20,796.00
20,868.00
20,940.00
21,012.00
21,084.00
21,156.00
21,228.00
21,300.00
21,372.00
21,444.00
21,516.00
21,588.00
21,660.00
21,732.00
21,804.00
21,876.00
21,948.00
22,020.00
22,092.00
22,164.00
22,236.00
22,308.00
22,380.00
22,452.00
22,524.00
22,596.00
22,668.00
22,740.00
Stage Class - B Class - G

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
66 25,742.00
67 25,858.00
68 25,974.00
69 26,090.00
70 26,206.00
71 26,322.00
72 26,438.00
73 26,554.00
74 26,670.00
75 26,786.00
76 26,902.00
77 27,018.00
78 27,134.00
79 27,250.00
80 27,366.00
81 27,482.00
82 27,598.00
83 27,714.00
84 27,830.00
85 27,946.00
86 28,062.00
87 28,178.00
88 28,294.00
89 28,410.00
90 28,526.00
91 28,642.00
92 28,758.00
93 28,874.00
94 28,990.00
95 29,106.00
96 29,222.00
97 29,338.00
98 29,454.00
99 29,570.00
100 29,686.00
Stage Class - B Class - G
22,812.00
22,884.00
22,956.00
23,028.00
23,100.00
23,172.00
23,244.00
23,316.00
23,388.00
23,460.00
23,532.00
23,604.00
23,676.00
23,748.00
23,820.00
23,892.00
23,964.00
24,036.00
24,108.00
24,180.00
24,252.00
24,324.00
24,396.00
24,468.00
24,540.00
24,612.00
24,684.00
24,756.00
24,828.00
24,900.00
24,972.00
25,044.00
25,116.00
25,188.00
25,260.00
Schedule  2
WAGE   SCALES    APPLICABLE   TO    HAYLEYS    AGRICULTURE    HOLDINGS    LTD  -  KOTTAWA    FACTORY
FACTORY     EMPLOYEES    (HAYCHEM    (PVT)    LTD    JULY   2007    RECRUITS)
WITH    EFFECT    FROM   01   SEPTEMBER    2017
Stage GR - 1 GR - 2 GR - 3
1 15,258.00
2 15,330.00
3 15,402.00
4 15,474.00
5 15,546.00
6 15,618.00
7 15,690.00
99  x  72.00 15,278.00
15,366.00
15,454.00
15,542.00
15,630.00
15,718.00
15,806.00
15,303.00
15,413.00
15,523.00
15,633.00
15,743.00
15,853.00
15,963.00
99 x 88.00 10  x 110.00

<!-- page 35 -->

35AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
8 15,762.00
9 15,834.00
10 15,906.00
11 15,978.00
12 16,050.00
13 16,122.00
14 16,194.00
15 16,266.00
16 16,338.00
17 16,410.00
18 16,482.00
19 16,554.00
20 16,626.00
21 16,698.00
22 16,770.00
23 16,842.00
24 16,914.00
25 16,986.00
26 17,058.00
27 17,130.00
28 17,202.00
29 17,274.00
30 17,346.00
31 17,418.00
32 17,490.00
33 17,562.00
34 17,634.00
35 17,706.00
36 17,778.00
37 17,850.00
38 17,922.00
39 17,994.00
40 18,066.00
41 18,138.00
42 18,210.00
43 18,282.00
44 18,354.00
45 18,426.00
46 18,498.00
47 18,570.00
48 18,642.00
49 18,714.00
50 18,786.00
51 18,858.00
52 18,930.00
53 19,002.00
54 19,074.00
15,894.00
15,982.00
16,070.00
16,158.00
16,246.00
16,334.00
16,422.00
16,510.00
16,598.00
16,686.00
16,774.00
16,862.00
16,950.00
17,038.00
17,126.00
17,214.00
17,302.00
17,390.00
17,478.00
17,566.00
17,654.00
17,742.00
17,830.00
17,918.00
18,006.00
18,094.00
18,182.00
18,270.00
18,358.00
18,446.00
18,534.00
18,622.00
18,710.00
18,798.00
18,886.00
18,974.00
19,062.00
19,150.00
19,238.00
19,326.00
19,414.00
19,502.00
19,590.00
19,678.00
19,766.00
19,854.00
19,942.00
16,073.00
16,183.00
16,293.00
16,403.00
16,519.00
16,635.00
16,751.00
16,867.00
16,983.00
17,099.00
17,215.00
17,331.00
17,447.00
17,563.00
17,690.00
17,817.00
17,944.00
18,071.00
18,198.00
18,325.00
18,452.00
18,579.00
18,706.00
18,833.00
18,960.00
19,087.00
19,214.00
19,341.00
19,468.00
19,595.00
19,722.00
19,849.00
19,976.00
20,103.00
20,230.00
20,357.00
20,484.00
20,611.00
20,738.00
20,865.00
20,992.00
21,119.00
21,246.00
21,373.00
21,500.00
21,627.00
21,754.00
Stage GR - 1 GR - 2 GR - 3
10 x 116.00
79 x 127.00

<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
55 19,146.00
56 19,218.00
57 19,290.00
58 19,362.00
59 19,434.00
60 19,506.00
61 19,578.00
62 19,650.00
63 19,722.00
64 19,794.00
65 19,866.00
66 19,938.00
67 20,010.00
68 20,082.00
69 20,154.00
70 20,226.00
71 20,298.00
72 20,370.00
73 20,442.00
74 20,514.00
75 20,586.00
76 20,658.00
77 20,730.00
78 20,802.00
79 20,874.00
80 20,946.00
81 21,018.00
82 21,090.00
83 21,162.00
84 21,234.00
85 21,306.00
86 21,378.00
87 21,450.00
88 21,522.00
89 21,594.00
90 21,666.00
91 21,738.00
92 21,810.00
93 21,882.00
94 21,954.00
95 22,026.00
96 22,098.00
97 22,170.00
98 22,242.00
99 22,314.00
100 22,386.00
Stage GR  - 1 GR - 2 GR - 3
20,030.00
20,118.00
20,206.00
20,294.00
20,382.00
20,470.00
20,558.00
20,646.00
20,734.00
20,822.00
20,910.00
20,998.00
21,086.00
21,174.00
21,262.00
21,350.00
21,438.00
21,526.00
21,614.00
21,702.00
21,790.00
21,878.00
21,966.00
22,054.00
22,142.00
22,230.00
22,318.00
22,406.00
22,494.00
22,582.00
22,670.00
22,758.00
22,846.00
22,934.00
23,022.00
23,110.00
23,198.00
23,286.00
23,374.00
23,462.00
23,550.00
23,638.00
23,726.00
23,814.00
23,902.00
23,990.00
21,881.00
22,008.00
22,135.00
22,262.00
22,389.00
22,516.00
22,643.00
22,770.00
22,897.00
23,024.00
23,151.00
23,278.00
23,405.00
23,532.00
23,659.00
23,786.00
23,913.00
24,040.00
24,167.00
24,294.00
24,421.00
24,548.00
24,675.00
24,802.00
24,929.00
25,056.00
25,183.00
25,310.00
25,437.00
25,564.00
25,691.00
25,818.00
25,945.00
26,072.00
26,199.00
26,326.00
26,453.00
26,580.00
26,707.00
26,834.00
26,961.00
27,088.00
27,215.00
27,342.00
27,469.00
27,596.00

<!-- page 37 -->

37AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
SCHEDULE  3
W AGE   SCALES    APPLICABLE   TO    HAYLEYS    AGRICULTURE    HOLDINGS    LTD  -  KOTTAWA    FACTORY
FACTORY     EMPLOYEES    (HAYCHEM    (PVT)    LTD    NOVEMBER   2009    RECRUITS)
AND   NEW   RECRUITS  WITH    EFFECT    FROM   01   SEPTEMBER    2017
Stage Grade - 1 Grade - 2 Grade - 3
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
99x72.00 15,000.00
15,072.00
15,144.00
15,216.00
15,288.00
15,360.00
15,432.00
15,504.00
15,576.00
15,648.00
15,720.00
15,792.00
15,864.00
15,936.00
16,008.00
16,080.00
16,152.00
16,224.00
16,296.00
16,368.00
16,440.00
16,512.00
16,584.00
16,656.00
16,728.00
16,800.00
16,872.00
16,944.00
17,016.00
17,088.00
17,160.00
17,232.00
17,304.00
17,376.00
17,448.00
17,520.00
17,592.00
17,664.00
17,736.00
17,808.00
17,880.00
17,952.00
18,024.00
18,096.00
18,168.00
15,100.00
15,188.00
15,276.00
15,364.00
15,452.00
15,540.00
15,628.00
15,716.00
15,804.00
15,892.00
15,980.00
16,068.00
16,156.00
16,244.00
16,332.00
16,420.00
16,508.00
16,596.00
16,684.00
16,772.00
16,860.00
16,948.00
17,036.00
17,124.00
17,212.00
17,300.00
17,388.00
17,476.00
17,564.00
17,652.00
17,740.00
17,828.00
17,916.00
18,004.00
18,092.00
18,180.00
18,268.00
18,356.00
18,444.00
18,532.00
18,620.00
18,708.00
18,796.00
18,884.00
18,972.00
15,200.00
15,310.00
15,420.00
15,530.00
15,640.00
15,750.00
15,860.00
15,970.00
16,080.00
16,190.00
16,300.00
16,416.00
16,532.00
16,648.00
16,764.00
16,880.00
16,996.00
17,112.00
17,228.00
17,344.00
17,460.00
17,587.00
17,714.00
17,841.00
17,968.00
18,095.00
18,222.00
18,349.00
18,476.00
18,603.00
18,730.00
18,857.00
18,984.00
19,111.00
19,238.00
19,365.00
19,492.00
19,619.00
19,746.00
19,873.00
20,000.00
20,127.00
20,254.00
20,381.00
20,508.00
99 x 88.00 10 x 110.00
10 x 116.00
79 x 127.00

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
18,240.00
18,312.00
18,384.00
18,456.00
18,528.00
18,600.00
18,672.00
18,744.00
18,816.00
18,888.00
18,960.00
19,032.00
19,104.00
19,176.00
19,248.00
19,320.00
19,392.00
19,464.00
19,536.00
19,608.00
19,680.00
19,752.00
19,824.00
19,896.00
19,968.00
20,040.00
20,112.00
20,184.00
20,256.00
20,328.00
20,400.00
20,472.00
20,544.00
20,616.00
20,688.00
20,760.00
20,832.00
20,904.00
20,976.00
21,048.00
21,120.00
21,192.00
21,264.00
21,336.00
21,408.00
21,480.00
21,552.00
21,624.00
21,696.00
21,768.00
21,840.00
21,912.00
19,060.00
19,148.00
19,236.00
19,324.00
19,412.00
19,500.00
19,588.00
19,676.00
19,764.00
19,852.00
19,940.00
20,028.00
20,116.00
20,204.00
20,292.00
20,380.00
20,468.00
20,556.00
20,644.00
20,732.00
20,820.00
20,908.00
20,996.00
21,084.00
21,172.00
21,260.00
21,348.00
21,436.00
21,524.00
21,612.00
21,700.00
21,788.00
21,876.00
21,964.00
22,052.00
22,140.00
22,228.00
22,316.00
22,404.00
22,492.00
22,580.00
22,668.00
22,756.00
22,844.00
22,932.00
23,020.00
23,108.00
23,196.00
23,284.00
23,372.00
23,460.00
23,548.00
20,635.00
20,762.00
20,889.00
21,016.00
21,143.00
21,270.00
21,397.00
21,524.00
21,651.00
21,778.00
21,905.00
22,032.00
22,159.00
22,286.00
22,413.00
22,540.00
22,667.00
22,794.00
22,921.00
23,048.00
23,175.00
23,302.00
23,429.00
23,556.00
23,683.00
23,810.00
23,937.00
24,064.00
24,191.00
24,318.00
24,445.00
24,572.00
24,699.00
24,826.00
24,953.00
25,080.00
25,207.00
25,334.00
25,461.00
25,588.00
25,715.00
25,842.00
25,969.00
26,096.00
26,223.00
26,350.00
26,477.00
26,604.00
26,731.00
26,858.00
26,985.00
27,112.00
Stage Grade - 1 Grade - 2 Grade - 3

<!-- page 39 -->

39AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
98
99
100
21,984.00
22,056.00
22,128.00
23,636.00
23,724.00
23,812.00
27,239.00
27,366.00
27,493.00
Stage Grade - 1 Grade - 2 Grade - 3
SCHEDULE 3
W AGE   SCALES    APPLICABLE   TO    HAYLEYS   AGRICULTURE   HOLDINGS   LTD - KOTTAWA    FACTORY
MOTOR   TRANSPORT    TRADE   WORKERS   WITH    EFFECT   FROM   1   SEPTEMBER   2017
1 15,000.00
2 15,116.00
3 15,232.00
4 15,348.00
5 15,464.00
6 15,580.00
7 15,696.00
8 15,812.00
9 15,928.00
10 16,044.00
11 16,160.00
12 16,276.00
13 16,392.00
14 16,508.00
15 16,624.00
16 16,740.00
17 16,856.00
18 16,972.00
19 17,088.00
20 17,204.00
21 17,320.00
22 17,436.00
23 17,552.00
24 17,668.00
25 17,784.00
26 17,900.00
27 18,016.00
28 18,132.00
29 18,248.00
30 18,364.00
31 18,480.00
32 18,596.00
33 18,712.00
34 18,828.00
35 18,944.00
36 19,060.00
37 19,176.00
38 19,292.00
39 19,408.00
40 19,524.00
41 19,640.00
42 19,756.00
43 19,872.00
44 19,988.00
45 20,104.00
46 20,220.00
47 20,336.00
48 20,452.00
49 20,568.00
.50 20,684.00
51 20,800.00
52 20,916.00
53 21,032.00
54 21,148.00
55 21,264.00
56 21,380.00
57 21,496.00
58 21,612.00
59 21,728.00
60 21,844.00
61 21,960.00
62 22,076.00
63 22,192.00
64 22,308.00
65 22,424.00
66 22,540.00
67 22,656.00
68 22,772.00
69 22,888.00
70 23,004.00
71 23,120.00
72 23,236.00
73 23,352.00
74 23,468.00
75 23,584.00
76 23,700.00
77 23,816.00
78 23,932.00
79 24,048.00
80 24,164.00
81 24,280.00
Stage CLASS - B
149 x 116.00
Stage CLASS - B

<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
82 24,396.00
83 24,512.00
84 24,628.00
85 24,744.00
86 24,860.00
87 24,976.00
88 25,092.00
89 25,208.00
90 25,324.00
91 25,440.00
92 25,556.00
93 25,672.00
94 25,788.00
95 25,904.00
96 26,020.00
97 26,136.00
98 26,252.00
99 26,368.00
100 26,484.00
101 26,600.00
102 26,716.00
103 26,832.00
104 26,948.00
105 27,064.00
106 27,180.00
107 27,296.00
108 27,412.00
109 27,528.00
110 27,644.00
111 27,760.00
112 27,876.00
113 27,992.00
114 28,108.00
115 28,224.00
116 28,340.00
117 28,456.00
118 28,572.00
119 28,688.00
120 28,804.00
121 28,920.00
122 29,036.00
123 29,152.00
124 29,268.00
125 29,384.00
126 29,500.00
127 29,616.00
128 29,732.00
129 29,848.00
130 29,964.00
131 30,080.00
132 30,196.00
133 30,312.00
134 30,428.00
135 30,544.00
136 30,660.00
137 30,776.00
138 30,892.00
139 31,008.00
140 31,124.00
141 31,240.00
142 31,356.00
143 31,472.00
144 31,588.00
145 31,704.00
146 31,820.00
147 31,936.00
148 32,052.00
149 32,168.00
150 32,284.00
Stage CLASS - B Stage CLASS - sB

<!-- page 41 -->

41AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
SCHEDULE  4
PRODUCTION   NORMS
 Type of Pack Pack Sizes Operation Units
with effect from
1st November 2011
50/ 100 ml 4030
Category Glass Bottles 200 ml 3360
400 / 500 ml 2890
A 100 ml 4310
Poly Bottles 200 ml 3750
400 / 500 ml 2890
Poly Cans 1.0 ltr 648
(Hand Filling) 2.0 ltr 606
3.0 / 4.0 1tr 514
50/ 100 g (MF) 2500
Category Powder 200 g (MF) 2500
Products 500 g (MF) 2000
B 1.0 kg (MF) 1250
5 - 25 g (HF) 1500
50 / 100 g (HF) 1250
200 g (HF) 1100
500  g (HF) 1025
1.0  kg (HF) 600
FORMULATIONS
No. of Batches
Insecticide 2 x 1200 kg
Weedicide 2 x 2500 kg
Powder & Baits 8 x 100 kg

<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 31.07.2020
SCHEDULE   4 (Contd.)
Qualifying Level/Quantity for payment of Productivity Bonus
Pack Size Productivity Level Starting Qualifying Level for
from 1st November 2011 Incentive Payment
50/ 100ml Glass 4030 5239
200ml Glass 3360 4368
400 / 500ml Glass 2890 3757
100ml Poly 4310 5603
200ml Poly 3750 4875
400 / 500ml Poly 2890 3757
1.0 ltr Poly Can 648 842
2.0 ltr Poly Can 606 788
3.0 / 4.0 ltr  Poly Can 514 668
50/ l00g  Powder (M/F) 2500 3250
200g Powder (M/F) 2500 3250
500g Powder (M/F) 2000 2600
1.0 kg Powder (M/F) 1250 1625
5 - 25g Powder  H/F 1500 1950
50 / 100 g Powder (H/F) 1250 1625
200 g Powder (H/F) 1100 1430
500 g Powder (H/F) 1025 1332
1.0 kg Powder (H/F) 600 780
SCHEDULE  5
Productivity Bonus Payments Scheme
% Productivity Level Over Norm Payment (Rs.)
10 Nil
20 Nil
30 60.00
40 90.00
50 380.00
60 420.00
70 460.00
80 500.00
90 560.00
100 760.00
08 - 330
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA