

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.07.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1974$16 - 2016 cQ,s ui 07 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'07'07
No. 1974/16 - THURSDAY,   JULY  07, 2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L. D. B. 277/40.
THE  ANTIQUITIES  ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 188)
Order under Section 18
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 18 of the Antiquities Ordinance (Chapter 188) I, Akila Viraj Kariyawasam,
Minister of Education, do by this Order declare the monuments specified in the Schedule to this Order, to be “Protected
Monuments” for the purposes of the aforesaid Ordinance.
The Notice under Section 19 in relation to the monuments specified in the Schedule to this Order was published in
Gazette No.1,963 of 12th April, 2016.
AKILA VIRAJ KARIY AWASAM,
Minister of Education.
Colombo,
29th June, 2016.
SCHEDULE
L
IST OF PROTECTED MONUMENTS TO BE DECLARED
SOUTHERN PROVINCE
1. Drip ledged cave in the premises of Shailayarama Purana Rajamaha Vihara at Pahala Kimbiya situated in the
Grama Niladhari Division No. 208, Pahala Kimbiya in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Baddegama in Galle
District in Southern Province.
2. Cathedral of the Mother of Rosary at the place called Mount Calvary belonging to Kaluwella village situated in the
Grama Niladhari Division No. 96C, Kaluwella in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Four Gravets in Galle District
in Southern Province.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.07.2016
2A
3. Ancient Chaitya in the premises of Urawaththa Gangarama Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari Division No. 80,
Urawaththa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Hikkaduwa in Galle District in Southern Province.
4. Shrine with ancient frescoeses in the premises of  Wehella Weluwanarama Purana Vihara situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division No. 445 A,Wehella North in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Dikwella in Matara District in
Southern Province.
5. Inner shrine with ancient frescoeses and sculptures of the shrine situated in the premises of Elgiriya Rajamaha
Vihara belonging to Kahavilgoda village in the Grama Niladhari Division Elgiriya in the Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Akuressa in Matara District in Southern Province.
6. Ruins of buildings and other archeological evidences found in the lands situated in the West and South West of  the
Galagoda Ethkanda Purana Vihara and drip ledged cave in the premises of Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division Kamburugamuwa North in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Weligama in Matara District in Southern
Province.
7. Ancient shrine in the premises of Galkanda Purana Vihara belonging to Bambarenda village situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division No. 441, Bambarenda West in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Dikwella in Matara District
in Southern Province.
8. Dutch Reformed Church in the premises of Matara Fort situated in the Grama Niladhari Division No. 416C, Fort in
the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Matara in Matara District in Southern Province.
9. Grave monument of Koratota Thero and ancient Shrine in the premises of Weragampita Rajamaha Vihara situated in
the Grama Niladhari Division No. 417, Uyanwaththa North in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division Matara in Matara
District in Southern Province.
SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE
10. Hilock of ruins in the land called Katugahawaththa belonging to Katugahawaththa village situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division Kekirigoda in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Mawanella in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa
Province.
11. Cave with drip ledges and stone inscriptions found at the place called Kithulgahahena belonging to Urakanda village
situated in the Grama Niladhari Division No. 16D, Asmadala in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Aranayaka in
Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
12. Acess road with retaining walls, flight of steps and Moonstone at the place called Hitinawaththa and
Dewatagahamulakotuwa belonging to Udapamunuwa village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division No. 33A,
Attapitiya in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Aranayaka in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
13. Rock plaine with a sketch of a human and the sign of Dharmachakra(Wheel-turning) found in the land called
Paragahahena belonging to Wakirigala situated in the Grama Niladhari Division Wakirigala in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Mawanella in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
14. Drip ledged caves at the place called Devalawaththa belonging to Udumagama village situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division No. 48D, Udumagama in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Kegalle in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa
Province.
15. Drip ledged cave at the place called Pahalakotuwa Idama belonging to Polkumbura village situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division Wakirigala in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Aranayaka in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa
Province.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.07.2016
3A
16. Cave with the evidences belonging to pre historic eraat the place called Galpoththa Pitahena situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division Asmadala in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Aranayaka in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa
Province.
17. Bogala rock plain with drip ledged cave, plight of steps and other archeological evidences in Polkumbura village
situated in the Grama Niladhari Division Wakirigala in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Aranayaka in Kegalle
District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
18. Drip ledged cave and cave inscription at the place called Diganehena belonging to Ruwanpura village situated in the
Grama Niladhari Division Heenatipana in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Mawanella in Kegalle District in
Sabaragamuwa Province.
19. Cave temple with ancient frescoeses and sculptures in the premises of Balathgama Purana Thapa Gallen Vihara
situated in the Grama Niladhari Division Balathgama in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Mawanella in Kegalle
District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
20. Rock plain with Tempita Shrine, Diggeya, Dagoba and Siripathula (Foot print) in the premises of Wakirigala Rajamaha
Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari Division Wakirigala in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Aranayaka in
Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
21. Ancient Dharamasala in the premises of Sri Dharma Wijayasundararama Vihara belonging to Elagalla village situated
in the Grama Niladhari Division Kanangamuwa in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Bulathkohupitiya in Kegalle
District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
22. Ancient shrine within the premises of Ethnawala Sri Pushparama Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari Division
Ethnawala in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Warakapola in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
23. Ancient Tempita Shrine within the premises of Mangalagama Sri Vidya Mangala Piriven Vihara situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division Mangalagama in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Kegalle in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa
Province.
24. Rock plain with evidences of ancient building constructions at the place called Beligedara Idame Gallegala belonging
to Uhangoda situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Idampitiya in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Mawanella
in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
25. Shrine with ancient frescoeses and sculptures belonging to the premises of Balawinna Purana Gangarama Vihara
situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Balawinna West in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Godakawela in
Rathnapura District in Sabaragamuwa Province.
CENTRAL PROVINCE
26. Ancient two storied building in the premises of Waththegama Vidyadarshana Pirivena Vihara situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division Waththegama in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Pathadumbara in Kandy District in Central
Province.
27. Galkotuwa drip ledged cave situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Galkotuwa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
28. Katarangala cave and drip ledged cave situated at surrounding area in Dakwariwaththa Aluth Kotasa Village situated
in the Grama Niladhari Division, Randiwela in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District
in Central Province.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.07.2016
4A
29. Ancient shrine, Dharmasala and two Chaityas in the premises of Giddawa Purana Vihara situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division Giddawa in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central
Province.
30. Stone door and plight of steps of the ancient shrine belonging to Karalliyadda Sri Uposatharama Vihara situated in
the Grama Niladhari Division, Karalliyadda in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District
in Central Province.
31. Kande Walawwa belonging to Kandagammedda situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Kandagammedda in the
Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
32. Ancient well and Pihilla in the land with Walawaththa Walawwa belonging to Walawaththa Village situated in the
Grama Niladhari Division, Randeniya in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in
Central Province.
33. Ancient shrine within the premises of Udawela Purana Bodhimalu Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari Division,
Udawela in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
34. Kadawara Devala in Gabbala Village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Gabbala in the Divisional  Secretary’s
Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
35. Ancient shrine within the premises of Waradiwela Purwarama Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari Division
Waradiwela in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
36. Building of Udagama Sath Paththini Devala and Stone with the signs of sun and moon found closeby, which are
belonging to Madeniyawaka situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Madeniyawaka in the Divisional  Secretary’s
Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
37. Madugalle Walawwa in Udispaththuwa Village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Nilgala in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
38. Ancient shrine within the premises of Pothdalgoda Purana Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari Division,
Pothdalgoda in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
39. Stone inscription and Chaitya in Ganepitiya land belonging to Pothdalgoda Village situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division Pothdalgoda in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
40. Drip ledged cave and stone plight of steps belonging to Deganthilaka Vihara in Dehigashinna Village situated in the
Grama Niladhari Division, Pothdalgoda in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in
Central Province.
41. Ancient Shrine within the premises of Heeloya Purana Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari Division Heeloya in
the Divisional  Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
42. Ancient Vishnu Devala within the premises of Bodhirukhkharama Vihara belonging to Meeyanpaha village situated
in the Grama Niladhari Division, Hakmana in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District
in Central Province.
43. Ancient  Shrine belonging to the premises of Kurukohogama Rajamaha Vihara situated in the Grama Niladhari
Division, Kurukohogama in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
44. Ancient shrine and other archaeological evidences within the premises of Wendaruwa Kiri Vihara belonging to
Udagammedda Village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division Udagammedda in the Divisional  Secretary’s Division,
Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.07.2016
5A
45. Ancient Sekkuwa in Medagammedda Village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division, Senarathwela in the Divisional
Secretary’s Division, Medadumbara in Kandy District in Central Province.
46. Drip ledged cave in the land called Kataram Kumbure Pillewa belonging to Gunadaha Village situated in the Grama
Niladhari Division, Gunadaha in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Galagedara in Kandy District in Central Province.
47. Chaithyagghara,chaitya and stone inscription within the premises of Walwasagoda Rajamaha Vihara situated in Grama
Niladhari Division No. 1067 Herakola, in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Ganga Ihala Korale in Kandy District
in Central Province.
NORTH  CENTRAL PROVINCE
48. Ancient Tempita building within the premises of Sri Bodhirukhkharama Rajamaha Vihara belonging to Peenewa
Village situated in the Grama Niladhari Division No. 90, Peenagama in the Divisional  Secretary’s  Division, Rambewa
in Anuradhapura District in North Central Province.
WESTERN  PROVINCE
49. Ancient access road with plight of steps and Rocks with ancient letters and other archaeological signs found by both
side of the road within the land called Ganeudawaththa adjoining the premises of Warakagoda Ganeuda Purana
Rajamaha Vihara belonging to the Grama Niladhari Division No. 816, Warakagoda East in the Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Madurawala in Kalutara District in Western Province.
50. Samadhi Grahaya in Kalandar Sahib Waliyulla Muslim mosque building situated at Rate No. 10, First Lane, in
Maradana Town belonging to Grama Niladhari Division, Panchikawaththa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division,
Colombo in Colombo District in Western Province.
51. Dharmasala within the premises of Pilikuththuwa Rajamaha Vihara situated in Grama Niladhari Division Pilikuththuwa
in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Mahara in Gampaha District in Western Province.
52. Cave temple with ancient frescoeses and sculptures within the premises of Maimbula Gallen Vihara in Maimbula
Ranpokunagama Village belonging to the Grama Niladhari Division No. 350, Maimbula in the Divisional Secretary’s
Division, Aththanagalla in Gampaha District in Western Province.
53. Tempita Vihara within the premises of Pahalagama Vidyaravinda Mahapirivena situated in Grama Niladhari Division,
Pahalagama in the Divisional Secretary’s’ Division, Gampaha in Gampaha District in Western Province.
54. Drip ledged cave temple within the premises of Lenagampala Purana Vihara situated in Grama Niladhari Division,
Lenagampala in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Dompe-Weke in Gampaha District in Western Province.
55. Viharagala Meegalla drip ledged cave in Meegalla Village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Meewitigammana in
the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Dompe in Gampaha District in Western Province.
56. Ancient Dharmasala within the premises of Koskandawala Rajamaha Vihara situated in Grama Niladhari Division
No. 308, Koskandawala in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Aththanagalla in Gampaha District in Western Province.
57. Parewigala drip ledged cave in Koskandawala Village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 308A, Koskandawala
in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Aththanagalla in Gampaha District in Western Province.
58. Shrine within the premises of Sri Sudharmarama Vihara belonging to Bope Village situated in Grama Niladhari
Division No. 459B, Siyambalawa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Padukka in Colombo District in Western
Province.
07-855
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.