

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  21st May,  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th May, 2021.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
  
Page 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 122
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"226- 2021 wfm%a,a ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'04'30                                                            
No. 2,226 - FRID Ay,  APRIL 30, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
121 -  B 82226 - 353 (04/2021)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.–  Public Health Emergency Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of April 09, 2021.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'30
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 30.04.2021
122
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General: - 4/10/25999
Ref. No. of Assistant Land Commissioner: - KN/LT-
L/493(i)
notIfIcatIon under state land 
regulatIon no. 21(2)
it is hereby noticed that Mrs. Kattadige Swarnalatha Manike 
has requested a state land allotment in extent of 10 Perches 
depicted as Lot No. A in the tracing of the Colonization Officer 
and situated in the village of Bhathiyagama of Bhathiyagama 
Grama Niladhari Division which belongs to Kanthale 
Divisional Secretary’s Division in the District of Trincomalee 
on lease for residential purposes.
02. The boundaries of the land requested are given below.
On the North by : Lot No. B
On the East by  : Land of D. M. Rathnayake
On the South by  : Land of L. Podi Manike and the by road 
On the West by  : Lot No. B
The requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and 
the following conditions.
(a) 
Term of lease  : Thirty (30) years (From 15.06.1995 
onwards)
  Annual amount of the lease : 4% of the undeveloped 
value of the land in the year 1995 as per the valuation 
of the Chief Valuer.
 Fine : Three times of the 4% of the current developed 
value of the land
(b) The lessees must, within a period of one (01) 
year from the date of commencement of the lease,  
develop the said land to the satisfaction of the Assistant 
Land Commissioner.
(c) The lessee must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than a residential purposes.
(d) This lease shall also be subject to other special 
conditions imposed by the Divisional Secretary and  
other institutes.
(e) Existing buildings must be maintained in a proper state 
of repair.
(f) If the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for 
which the land was obtained within the specified  
period of time, steps will be taken to cancel the 
agreement of lease.
(g) No permission will be granted, until expiry of 05 
years from the date 12.03.2020, for any subleasing  
or assigning other than assigning within the family or 
subleasing or assigning to substantiate the purpose of 
which the land was obtained upon completion of 05 
years from the date of 15.06.1995, the lessee shall be 
entitled to receive a grant for this lease bond. 
(h) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will  
ipso facto lapse.
(i) If the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose of 
constructing the house within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of lease 
and reinstate the land to the state. 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within 06 weeks of herein 
Gazette publication to  
the effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land 
shall be leased out as requested.
 M. L. a. Sanjeewa,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, ‘Mihikatha Medura’, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla ,
On 30th April, 2021.
04-836
miscellaneous land notices
PRInTeD   aT   THe   DePaRTMenT   OF   gOVeRnMenT   PRInTIng,   SRI LanKa.