

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
w;s úfYI
wxl 2166$18 - 2020  ud¾;= ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2020'03'12
No.  2166/18 - THURSDAY ,  MARCH 12, 2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- PG 4928  - 18 (03/2020)
NOTICE OF THE EASTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
By Laws
Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha
I, Governor Anuradha Yahampath of the Eastern Provincial Council do hereby order publish the approval granted by
me under the power vested in me by Section 123 Sub-section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15th of 1987,  read
with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, and the decision taken by the
Pradeshiya Sabha  with decision number 150 at the Council meeting held on 2019.06.04 as per the power vested with
the Pradeshiya Sabha  by Section 122 Subsection (1) of  the Predeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15th of 1987, the following
scheduled Five (5) By-Laws made by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha  under the power vested it in Section 126 of Sub
section vii (f) and (xxx), ix (h),  ix (h) and xv, ix (k),  xxiii of the Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987, shall be
effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha  area of Kinniya from the date of publish in this notification in the Government
Gazette.
       A
NURADHA YAHAMPATH,
      Hon. Governor,
      Eastern Provincial Council.
Governor Secretariat,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee.
31
st January 2020.
Schedule
1. By- Laws relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the Advertisement within the Local authority area.
2. By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the Local authority area.
3. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries within the Local authority area.
4. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize Supervise and control of annoying business and dangerous business
within the Local authority area.
5. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centres within the Local authority area.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
2A
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
supervise advertisement displaying within the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensure
protection, comfort and Convenience of the People residing within the limits of the Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section 126 (vii)
(f) and (xxx) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4)  (i) Anybody who expects to obtain a license to display any advertisement within the  limits
of Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha shall forward an application substantially prepared in
accordance with  the specimen given in  Schedule-01 to the Chairman or  Authorized
Officer  at least four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to
be displayed.
(ii) The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of
Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws are duly
fulfilled.
(5) (i) Every application forwarded to obtain a license shall contain a specimen of the
advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 milli metres x 297 milli meters
and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisement is expected to
be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297 mm. Moreover, the
exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have been indicated therein.
(ii) When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a place owned
by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution written evidence
ensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement at the Particular
Place shall have been submitted.
(6) It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the license issued in
respect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each
advertisement or advertisements while such display is done.
(7) It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all the other
goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,
within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the
application.
(8)      (i) Advertisement relating to any entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose
of charity, an advertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon
which such advertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or
Provincial Council or Local Authority and an advertisement relating to a religious, political
or public meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business, the
charges of advertisement may be exempted and license in that behalf  shall be obtained
from the Chairman or  Authorized Officer .Further Provided that in any advertisement and
sign is illuminated advertisement and sky sign permits shall be obtained by paying fees as
specified in these By-Laws.
By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the
Advertisement within the area of authority of the 
Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha
Name of
By-Laws.
Objective.
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-12)

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed
together with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when an
advertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any household,
such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these By-
laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of the administration of the
premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who shall obtain the license
in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.
(iii) The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any business premise
or any factory within the area of authority of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha , to a single
notice depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise being maintained at
the said place of business or the nature of the products being produced at the factory,
for a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase "on lease"
or "for sale" or "available for rent" displayed on any property intended to be given in
lease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditions specified in these By-
Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at any time when more than one
such advertisement is displayed the provisions of these By-Laws shall apply in respect of
all such additional advertisements.
(9)  The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall
i. maintain such hoarding in a proper condition and security, and
ii. Exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legible
characters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.
(10)  Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the persons who
use the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage is
caused to the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the
damages to that person or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized
Officer of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha shall be exempted of payment of such damages.
(11) Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by the Engineer.
(12)  (i) The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harm caused
or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing used in
this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due to the menacing
or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
(ii) The Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be responsible in any way for removing,
damaging or disfiguring of an advertisement obtained under the license for exhibiting.
(13) (i) Unless any person has a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the
specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by the Chairman or
Authorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in any
form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place in the area of authority of
the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Even after obtaining a valid license for display of advertisements nobody shall display or
let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specifically stated
in the relevant license, to be seen at any public place.
(14) The period of validity of the license already issued to any other licensee in respect of the place
for which the license is currently requested shall have been completed valid time period. Further
there shall be sufficient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an
obstacle to issue a license to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the
viewing of the advertisement being displayed under a license previously issued and still in force.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(13-21)

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
4A
(15) (i) The advertisement for which a display license is sought shall not contain any scenes or
words   which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harming
any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.
(ii) It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law of the
country.
(16)  Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accident to
a person walking near the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover,
fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving
a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be done.
(17) No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any religious
place or park or any bridge or street or  electrical post  or any tree or branch close to them or  any
public building connected with them.
(18) An advertisement to be displayed in such manner over or across any pavement carriage way of
any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed  or attached to an overhead bridge
constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erected in a
manner approved by the  engineer.
(19) No person shall cause
(i). Any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form other than
that approved by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(ii). In addition to the approval given by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha, any vehicle bearing
any illuminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent  of police, shall be
driven on any street or road .
(20) Any license issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered or
constructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression.
(21) (i) Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine which areas are allowed to display
advertisements within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) When conditions necessary for the issue of a license under the By-laws in this part have
been fulfilled in respect of any application, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall inform
the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue
the license to the applicant after paying the fees for the license in the manner set out in
section 25(i) and fees for the security deposit set out in section 22(i) of By-Law, after
receipt of the above notice.
(iii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish a notification in the
Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement could be displayed or
exhibited. Such notification shall take effect from the date of its publication, or from
whatsoever date specified therein.
(iv) The Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha shall have power to construct or maintain an advertisement
board  Under these By-Laws as determined by Pradeshiya Sabha in any land belongs to
any person and given to the Pradeshiya Sabha on agreement or in any land belongs to
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to recover the fees already fixed by
the Pradeshiya Sabha from the licensee to display any advertisement on the board
constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha under above sub section (ii).
(vi) Publishing of notice in Government Gazette  regarding the fees for advertisement license
is duty of Chairman as specified in above paragraph (i) in these By Law No.25
Functions of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
( 21 – 24)

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(22) (i) When a decision has been made to issue a license in respect of any application forwarded
for the purpose of displaying an advertisement, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall
not issue the license for the said application until the applicant has deposited security
money in the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha at the rates to be determined by it from time to
time.
(ii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazette about
the decision taken by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of the rate of the security
deposit to be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha prior to issuing a license to display any
advertisement.
(23) (i) After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-Law No. 7 ,
the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already deposited at the Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha before the issuing of the relevant license on a written request made to
the Chairman or  Authorized Officer.
(ii) On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be the duty
of Chairman or  Authorized Officer to ensure,
(a) the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-laws No.7
(b) And that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Kinniya Pradeshiya
Sabha no damage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said advertisement or
due to any other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before releasing the said
deposit money to the said licensee.
(iii) Unless the Chairman or  Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the manner set
out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the By-laws,
No. 7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha, the
said deposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any licensee has
avoided acting in the manner stated in By-laws No. 7 or when any damage has been
caused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, suitable action shall be taken to deduct
from the deposit money expenditure that the Pradeshiya Sabha would have to bear to
effect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both, and only the
balance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.
(iv) When the money leviable by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha in taking action in the manner
stated in paragraph (c) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee shall pay
the extra money payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request made by the
licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days to the licensee for
what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.
(24) Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a license issued by the
Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha and to take into the possession of the Pradeshiya Sabha or remove in a
manner decided by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(25) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987,  the Secretary has
the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to
display any advertisement, further
(ii) ( a) Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha under
para 21(v) to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the place
belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha under these By-Laws.
Or
Charges and fees

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
6A
(b) Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Kinniya Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed where land
is belonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .
(iii) Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law 22
(iv) Person who has applied for a temporary license to display any advertisement shall pay
license fee according to the decision made by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
(v) When it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after the expiry
of the period of validity of the license currently issued for the display of any
advertisement a new license shall have been obtained on displaying the notice for such
succeeding year.
However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha as charges
intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of license to be issued for the display of
advertisements, the same license fees determined earlier shall be recovered for the new license to be
issued for the display of the said advertisement.
(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other officer
of Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
(27) (i) V alidity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is
cancelled earlier
(ii) T emporary license shall be valid for days for which  license has been issued unless its
validity is cancelled earlier
(28) (i) When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing of
any advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or risk to
anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an order to bring it
back to proper conditions within two weeks.
(ii) It shall be lawful to cancel the issued license for such advertisement and remove the
advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer, when anybody
in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting in the manner provided
by the provisions of the notification.
(iii) When any license has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) the security
deposit, deposited at the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying that
advertisement shall acquire to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and nobody else shall
have the right to claim the deposit money.
(iv) It shall be lawful Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue temporary license for less than
fourteen days as required, However all conditions are applicable to issue temporary
license.
(29) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by this
officer.
procedure of
inspection and
powers
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Valid period of
license or permit
Delegation of
power

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(31) When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any license issued having invited the attention in
respect of such violations.
(32) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha
limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.
Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law
which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated
to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of  Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha
"Authorized Officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"The power to inspect within the specified period" means period from the time of sun shining
until the time of sun setting.
"Engineer" means Engineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by the
Chairman to carry out particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws
a person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager
of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise means" place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"Superintendent of police" means, an officer in police station given authority for the specified
purpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.
"Cut-out" means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of wood or some other
material ;
"Display board" means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging an
advertisement displayed for the information and attention of the public ;
"Advertisement" means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or
notice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustrations
used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or any vehicle or
a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of the public and put in
place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;
Violation of By
Laws (30-31)
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
8A
PRADESHIYA SABHA
Application for the Advertisement
1. Full Name:—————————.
2. Address:—————————.
3. N.I.C.No.:—————————.
4. Mobile No.:—————————.
5. E-Mail Address:—————————.
6. Advertisement model annexed:—————————.
7. Location map annexed:—————————.
8. Type of Advertisement: -    One side/ Double sides/ Lighted:—————————.
9. Duration: - From:—————.       To:—————.
10. Size of Advertisement: - Length —————.      Width:—————. Height:—————.
I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be converted to municipal
property without any notice.
…………………. ……………………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer
Chief Revenue Inspector
Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable
………………… …………………………………
Date  Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Secretary
 Fitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended
…………………… ……… ……………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary,
Size of Advertisement:     Length ................   Wide ................... Area (square meter) ................
               Detail Private Lands RDD Road RDA Road LAA Land  LAA Road
Agreement is made Yes/No
Land Rent (Rs200*sq)
Advertisement Fees (Rs100*sq)
Total Fees
Va t
NBT
Total Amount
……………………. ………………………………………
Date Management Assistant
Above advertisement is approved / not approved
……………………  ……………………………
Date Secretary

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
10A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No..:………………………………..        Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….         Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
 ………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.
………………… ……………………………………..
Date  Field officer/ Technical officer.
 (Planning section)

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the area
of authority of Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor hotels within the area of authority of Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126 (ix)
(h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in Schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the
regulations noticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition.
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height.
(iii) Walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved stones
and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other rooms
which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal sheets and
painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 meters from floor
level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them.
(ix) The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other
animals getting into them.
(x) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.
(xi) Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment for
making By-Law
Tasks to be
executed
(4-19)

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
12A
a) When the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.
Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.
b) When the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shall be
painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.
(xii) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to be obtained
at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply
and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate has
been obtained.
(xiii) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall be
taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xiv) A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.
(xv) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall
be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a manner
to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xvi) The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone or any
other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While the walls
are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The floor shall be
plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xvii) Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of this By -
Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well.
(xviii) Water supply facilities to each room at licensed premises shall be made in safe manner
by pipe line.
(xix) Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay and
polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed .
(xx) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises.
(xxi) In the event of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xxii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical fire-
fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xxiii) At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks are
prepared shall have been covered with stainless metal sheets or tiles or with any
impermeable material.
(xxiv) All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers and
employees, shall be at least 04 square meters for one person (2 m length X 2m width).

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Further, an Almirah or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keep towel
or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attached
bathrooms shall be there.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying waste
water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.
(8) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedsheets, pillow covers,
blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before to be
provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely
opened at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However
there shall be at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with
air condition in operation.
(9) Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address, and
identity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to
allow it, to be examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.
(10) It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean every room,
stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.
(11) Lavatories and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with
disinfectants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating dour. However, it
may be considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which
customers are staying once a day.
(12) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items or
implements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to be
consumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after
using.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day
if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is
being put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
14A
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner
prescribed by the Chairman.
(15) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects and it
is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept there
and food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.
(16) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or any
other instruments shall be used to serve food.
(17) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be provided
with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee
to ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety
materials when they are on duty.
(18) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush and
soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(19) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(20) No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she
has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom
(22) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply with the
minimum space specified in para (xxiv) of By Law 5.
(23) No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.
(24) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and there of
the land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place specified
(25) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed.
(ii) No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(26) (i) Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve in any
unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 20 – 29)

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or
making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or
residence living closely
(27) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law 30
(28) (i) No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products not contained
the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown below accordance with the
food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
dated 01.08.1991 under the food act No. 26 of 1980.
(ii) Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit for
human consumption.
(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of
(i) more than one bed in a single bedroom
(ii) more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom
(iii) more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom, and
(iv) more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single beds or
five single beds in a family room.
Further, in respect of any hotel the license shall not allow more than one person to sleep in a single
room or more than two in a double room or more than three in triple room. However, when the age of
the anybody sleeping in any room that person is below 12 years shall not be considered as one
person for purpose of this section.
(30) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.
(31) In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a license issued, any license
contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action
to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore
the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(32) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(33) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any other officer
of Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha
(34) The validity of every license issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(35) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(36) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-laws
to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
any Authorized Officer.
(37) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- law No. 31, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(35-38)
Valid period of
license or permit
Delegation of
powers
Charges and fees
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(30 – 31)

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
16A
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall
not be exceeded 14 days.
(38) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-law No. 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(39) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(40) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(41) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha
limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law
which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)
(42) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated
to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act, of Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘Urban Development Authority “ means, the urban development authority constituted under
urban development Law No. 41 of 1978
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period” means, opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for display
or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are prepared and kept for sale
or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;
‘‘Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two
double beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
Interpretation
and definition
Fines and
Penalties
Violation of
By-Law
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
‘‘Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with a
double bed and one single bed or three single beds ;
‘‘Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or
two single beds.
‘‘Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one
bed ;
‘‘Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed
and a mattress ;
‘‘Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one
mattress and a bed ;
Annexure -01
Compositional Requirements of milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat minimum Milk solids other
percent than milk  fact
minimum percent
1. Buffalo Row, pasteurized or
sterilized 7.0 9.0
2. Cow Do. 3.5 8.5
3. Standardized Pasteurized or sterilized 3.25 8.25
4. Toned Do. 2.0 8.5
5. Flavored Do. 2.0 7.2
6. Skimmed Do. - 8.5

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
18A
 Schedule-01
Application For Business tax / License 20.. for conducting Hotel within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:——————————.
2. Place of the Business center:——————————.
(i) Ward No: ——————————.
(ii) Assessment No:——————————.
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i) Full Name:——————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
(iv) NIC No:——————————.
(v) Telephone No:——————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:——————————.
(ii) T ype of business:——————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:——————————.
(iv) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:——————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-                   Yes: No:————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No:——————————.
Date:——————————.
7. The number of:
(i) Single rooms in the lodging house:
(ii) Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
(iii) Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
(iv) Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
(v) All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …
9. Toilets :
(i) The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii) The number of toilets for female employees: … …
(iii) The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv) The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
10. Bathrooms:
(i) The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii) The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …
12. Source of water supply: … … … … … …

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in
the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under the By Law
 ……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward……………………                                            Assessment No……………………
Name of Street……………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value…………………………        Arrears of the assessment tax………………….
……………………. …………………………………………
Date Administrative Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch,
1. Type of business……………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks……………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Revenue Inspector
For the report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….…………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………
……………………………………
………………………….   …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
20A
For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement………………………. Nature………………………….
Environmental License………………… M.O.H report…………………...
C.O.C……………………………………. Excise License…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
 ………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue
license………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
…………………… …………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No:………………………………..                                     Date of the
Receipt:…………………………….
License No:……………………………….                                      Date of the
License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
Date  …………………..   …………………………
Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date. Secretary.
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date. Pradeshiya Sa bha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries
Within the area of authority of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the Section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126
(ix) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled:
(i) Premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition whether the energy is obtained by
means of firewood, Electricity or any other way;
(ii) W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable ;
(iii)  Each room shall be cilium and cilium is in height not less than 3.0 metres from floor level;
(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles;
(v) The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least in a
height of 3.0 meters from the ground level of the room;
(vi) Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones with both
sides of    the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls have been
completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timber shall be
applied with paints;
(vii) All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints;
(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at
least 2.5 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least 1.0
meter in width;
(ix) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be renewed at least
once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate has been
obtained;
(x) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall be
taken to prevent contamination of that water;
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
Executed ( 4-25)

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
22A
(xi) Supplying water to each room of the license premises shall be made in manner by pipe
line;
(xii) In the event of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meter away from the constructed well;
(xiii) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13;
(xiv) When the bakery requesting a license is one using wood;
(a) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built a
height of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level;
(b) A sufficient receptacle to be kept to the dispose of ash and remnants of wood
removed from the oven of the bakery;
(c) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime;
(d) A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel;
(xv)  When the bakery requesting a license is using electricity-
(a) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to the bakery equipment shall be in a
safe condition and trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage and
leaks in electricity shall have been fixed;
(b) Electric cables of electric circuit fixed within the premises shall be drawn through
pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.
(6) If electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery, general fire extinguishing equipment shall
be maintained in working condition, and electrical fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in
addition.
(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No. 5 in these By-Laws to have been applied with paints shall
be so applied with paints at least once a year.
(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a week.
(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been finishing smoothly
without any gaps otherwise there shall be fully covered with stainless metal sheets.
(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to
a medical test at least once a year.
(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in prompt
maintaining condition.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) The licensee shall have to be supplied necessary face masks gloves and other safety materials
to the employees and to be ensure whether the employees are wearing those after having body
wash or bath when they have engage with their duty within the license premises.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a week or more than if
necessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being
put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows:–
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic  related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metals or iron or any other metals;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner
prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(15) A separate room shall be maintained exclusively used for storage of flour other ingredients used
in the bakery shall  be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of rats, flies or any other
kind of insects.
(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 in these By-Laws a rack made
of timber on a stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack
shall have been finished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover,
while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects
remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.
(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken out and
cleaned at least twice a month.
(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for males and
females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructed at a
distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale of
products such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
24A
(19) All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean
nails and soap or fluid soap.
(20) It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronic
balance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under
the provisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any
customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.
(21) In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall be the
duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of
waste material or water.
(22) Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,
Sinhala and English.
(23) Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorized by
the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(24) Name list (including sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of Chairman
or Authorized Officer
(25) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a bakery within the authority of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless
having a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in
schedule 1 for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(27) Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakery
products are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of
bakery products at any time.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person shall engage himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any
licensed premise without having clean dress.
(29) Unauthorized chemicals and colorings shall not be used for the bakery products.
(30) No person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws in this part,
and shall not be keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for
the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees of the
bakery shall not be included to this.
(31) Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products. Further,
if the unground water tank is constructed for use, it should be constructed a distance of 18 meters
away from waste fit or ash fit.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(26-34)

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(32) No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.
(33) No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided for purpose.
(34) Any licensee shall not resist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 35
(35) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed
premise.
(36) In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a license issued under the
By-Laws any license contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officer
shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary
conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(37) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(38) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
(39)The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(40) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By- Laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(41) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-
Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the
Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.
(42) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 35, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall
not be exceeded 14 days.
(43) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the
place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 fails to act as
stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(44) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(45) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(46) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kinniya Pradeshiya
Sabhas limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No .15
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(35-36).
Charges and fees
Delegation of
Powers.
Valid period of
license or
permit.
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(40-43).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
26A
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2).
(47)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” period from the time of sun shining until
the time of sun setting.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law and
person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge   or Manager
of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured
in any bakery for sale or on order placed by any person.
‘‘Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are
manufactured and it shall also include any place where such food prepared or where goods are
stored for preparation of such food.
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Schedule 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area of
authority of Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:-
2. Place of the Business center:-
(i) Ward No.:-
(ii) Assessment No.:-
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i) Full Name:-
(ii) Permanent Address:-
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv) NIC No.:————————.
(v) Telephone No.:————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:————————.
(ii) T ype of business:————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:————————.
(iv) Previous Business:————————.
5. If it is rented building
(i) Name of the Owner:————————.
(ii) Address:————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-Yes: No:————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:————————.
Date:————————.
I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..;
Date  Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
28A
For office use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                      Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :…………………………         Arrears of the assessment tax :………………….
……………………………… …………………………………………;
Date  Administrative Officer.
For the report of Revenue Department,
1. Type of business :………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid :……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 ……………………………. …………………………………………;
Date   Revenue Inspector.
For the report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
.................
……………………………. …………………………………………;
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………. ……………………………. ;
Date Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………;
Date Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………;
Date  Secretary.
Approved/Not Approved
……………… ……. …………………………………………;
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:…………………………......
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..;
 Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………;
Date Secretary.
Signed
                   ……………………. …………………………………………;
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
30A
 By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, Supervise and control of annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the area of
authority of the Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as   By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and
control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section126 (ix)
(k) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in annexure 01 is the dutyand
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous and
annoying business carrying by the Chairman or Chairman of Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the
following specified conditions are duly fulfilled:
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition;
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 meters in height;
(iii) Walls has to be made of bricks, cement or lime stone or any other permitted stone and
should be plastered and white washed;
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from floor
level;
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable;
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter max trail;
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles;
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them;
(ix) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws;
(x) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of wastewater
disposed from any section of the premises;
(xi) In the event of the Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action shall
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-15)

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated and
released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without Mixing with
air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen Meters away from the constructed well.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where white washing is needed to be
applied under By-Law No. 5 in these By-Law shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.
(8) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law No. 9
in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more
if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is
being put or removed.
(9) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows:
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron and any other metal;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner
prescribed by the Chairman.
(10) All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying or effluvial.
(11) All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering and put in
to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.
(12) All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring fromthe
production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall be
disposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.
(13) All license holders shall be kept wall of business premise in safe mode without absorbing any
dirty and keep in good manner.
(14) All license holders shall kept baskets and other instruments clean should have wash the utilities
daily.
(15) All license holders clean the tank which using for wash or drunk leather or any other materials
without spreading any smell.
(16) No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and dangerous
business carrying within the authorized area of Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha, unless he or she has poses
Tasks not to be
carried out
(16 – 18)

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
32A
a valid license issued by the chairman or authorized officer on the application prepared according to
the specimen found in annexure 01.
(17) No any person or licensee holder shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the
place for sleeping and taking food inside in night or day time.
(18) Any license holder should not use any river, watercourse, canal, well or any drain, sea or any
other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall not be
polluted above mentioned water resources.
(19) In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous
and annoying business is maintained under a license issued under this By-Laws, any contravenes
arose of any section of the By-Law the chairman or authorized officer shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee for demanding him to take necessary measures to accomplish with
prescribed conditions to reset the said premise to the approved position before a specified date.
(20) Any Person running dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying business
decided by Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha are included in orderly in schedule Nos. (I), (II), and (III) of
this By Law, it is duty of the Chairman and authorized officer to informing such person about
issuing the license.
(21) It is a duty of the Chairman or authorized officer to inform the applicant whether it is
accepted to issue license or rejected with the reason in accordance with these by laws within 30
days of receiving an application.
(22) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business.
(23) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
(24) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(25) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any authorized
officer.
(26) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No. 19, shall act asstipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not be exceeded
14 days.
(27) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned By-law No. 26 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in the
notice on or before the specified date.
(28) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
Functions of the
Local Authority
(19-21)
Charges and  fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period Of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (25-27)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(29) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws is an
offence.
(30) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kinniya  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a
court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(31) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by the
provisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act;
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabhas;
‘‘Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty;
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” means opportunity for take  measures to
make business or product at the specified place;
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws
and person who is responsible for management, is employed by  the person in-charge or
Manager of the management of this place;”
‘‘Licensed premise” means, specific range of place for which is issued license to take all
measures under these provisions.
Violation of
By laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
34A
FIRST SCHEDULE
Annoying Businesses
(1)    Clearing and Storing Graphite.
(2)    Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.
(3)    Tanning of Leather.
(4)    Leather for selling.
(5)    Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or egg).
(6)    Producing of Maldives fish or storing more than 50 Kg.
(7)    Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.
(8)    Maintaining a veterinary hospital.
(9)    Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.
(10)  Taking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.
(11)  Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.
(12)  Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.
(13)  Drying tobacco.
(14)  Producing animal feed.
(15)  Producing Poonac.
(16)  Boiling meats with blood.
(17)  Producing soap
(18) Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.
(19)  Making trunk boxes.
(20)  Keeping new and old metals.
(21)  Keeping ruined metals
(22)  Making housing furniture.
(23)  Making cane products.
(24)  Maintaining carpeting industry.
(25)  Making syrup or fruit juice.
(26)  Making sweets.
(27)  Dunking coconut husks
(28)  Producing brushes. (except tooth brushes)
(29)  Producing tooth brushes
(30)  Collecting toddy.
(31)  Producing vinegar.
(32)  Cleaving timber.
(33)  Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.
(34)  Producing soda.

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(35)  Painting fibers.
(36)  Producing leather instruments.
(37)  Tin fish, fruits and other foods.
(38)  Powdering coffee and grains.
(39)  Producing baking powder.
(40)  Making gas mantels.
(41)  Producing putty.
(42)  Making camphor.
(43)  Making candle.
(44)  Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.
(45)  Producing blue of cloth washing.
(46)  Producing sealing wax.
(47)  Producing perfumes.
(48)  Producing shocks.
(49)  Producing tires or tubes.
(50)  Refill tires.
(51)  Vulcanizing tires.
(52)  Manufacturing cement.
(53)  Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.
(54)  Manufacturing sand papers.
(55)  Manufacturing plastic products.
(56)  Kilning bricks.
(57)  Weaving clothes by machines.
(58)  Manufacturing or re storing of acids.
(59)  Manufacturing of roofing tiles.
(60)  Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.
(61)  Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.
(62)  Manufacturing garments products.
(63)  Running a poultry farm.
(64)  Manufacturing disinfectants.
(65)  Repairing and renovation of tires and tubes.
(66)  Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.
(67)  Manufacturing cigarettes and cigarettes with tobacco.

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
36A
SECOND SCHEDULE
Dangerous Businesses
(1) Quarrying metal.
(2) Making cool drinks (aerated water).
(3) Making ice.
(4) Manufacturing vegetable oils.
(5) Manufacturing coconut oils.
(6) Manufacturing or storing matches.
(7) Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.
(8) Manufacturing tea boxes.
(9) Manufacturing coir or other fibers.
(10) Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.
(11) Storing hay.
(12) Storing used garments.
(13) Manufacturing and repairing jewelries.
(14) Sawing timber by machines.
(15) Quarrying lime stone.
(16) Running a business using machines.
(17) Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.
(18) Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.
(19) Storing used papers and newspapers.
(20) Spray Painting.
(21) Storing fire working or crackers.
(22) Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)
(23) Running a welding work shop.
(24) Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.
(25) Printers.
(26) Blasting and gunpowder stores.
(27) Displaying advertisement
THIRD SCHEDULE
Annoying and Dangerous Businesses
(1) Clearing mica.
(2) Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.
(3) dry clean or dyeing.
(4) Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.
(5) Electro planting metals.
(6) Manufacture of oil or animal oil.
(7) Kilning lime stones.
(8) Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.
(9) Processing cod-liver oil.
(10) Building boats.
(11) Recharge or repairing batteries

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) Welding metals.
(13) Repairing motor vehicles.
(14) Servicing motor vehicles.
(15) Grinding metals with machines.
(16) Running a casting shop.
(17) Running a tin workshop.
(18) Making bodies for motor vehicles.
(19) Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.
(20) Manufacturing disinfectors.
(21) Manufacturing of mosquito coils.
(22) Manufacturing timber protects.
(23) Manufacturing gal tar.
(24) Manufacturing glass products.
(25) Making glass mirrors.
(26) Galvanize metals.
(27) Manufacturing welding lead.
(28) Manufacturing aluminum products.
(29) Manufacturing barbed wire.
(30) Manufacturing wire nails.
(31) Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.
(32) Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.
(33) Manufacturing P.I buckets.
(34) Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(35) Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(36) Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.
(37) Manufacturing machineries.
(38) Manufacturing electrical products.
(39) Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.
(40) Manufacturing storage batteries.
(41) Assembling tractors.
(42) Manufacturing radiator.
(43) Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.
(44) Manufacturing Battery.
(45) Paddy mills.
(46) Making coffin.
(47) Manufacturing and repairing telephones.
(48) Assembling and repairing electrical products.
(49) Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments.
(50) Funeral service supply center (Funeral home).

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
38A
Annexure 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business,
and annoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:—————————.
2. Place of the Business Centre:—————————.
(i) Ward No.:—————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:—————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:—————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:—————————.
(i) Full Name:—————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:—————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
(iv) NIC No.:—————————.
(v) Telephone No.:—————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:—————————.
(i) Date of Beginning the Business:—————————.
(ii) Name of the manager of the meat Stall:—————————.
(iii) Previous Business:—————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:—————————.
(ii) Address:—————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:—————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.: —————————.
Date:—————————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
 Date Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For Office Use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward:…………………………                                 Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. ………………………………………
 Date Administrative Officer.
For the Report of revenue department,
(i) Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii) Remarks:………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health.
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                              Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                            M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                             Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………. ………………………………
Date Chief Revenue Inspector.

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
40A
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………………….  …………………………………………
 Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….  Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License
………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Secretary.
Signed
……………………  …………………………………………
 Date  Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as in relating to formulate, regularize, control and supervise of
Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the  Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the  Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section
126 (XXIII) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Center by the
Chairman or Authorized officer of  Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified
conditions are duly fulfilled:
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition,
(ii) W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height,
(iii) These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides,
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from
floor level,
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable,
(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter,
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the place
where the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning,
(viii) Provide sufficient sitting space at least 1.5 square meter to each customer arriving at the
premises expecting service,
(ix) There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if water is
used in providing services to customers,
(x) In the event of the  Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making
By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed
(4-25)
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair
Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the
Kinniya Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
42A
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xi) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons,
(xii) The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated from
the buildings used as a residence,
(xiii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition,
(xiv) Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under   By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The floor of the licensed premises shall wash with disinfectants at least once a month.
(8) During the period of providing service to customers there shall be sufficient and continuous
water supply to the premises.
(9) It shall be enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and a sufficient number of
utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils.
(10) It shall be sufficient wash basins, soap or liquid soap for the use of employees when they are
providing services at the licensed premises.
(11) Sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colors (not in dark colors) shall be provided for
the use of the customers at the premises.
(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle shall be kept with a tight lid to collect cut hair
and other waste.
(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event of
electrically controlled instruments are used.
(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box shall be kept containing sufficient amount of first aid
instruments and drugs as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health.
(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner as to be
readily available to customers and employees.
(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed center —
i. Having bath or body wash before providing services
ii. maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition
iii. keep their nails cut and without any dirt
iv. Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,
i. instruments used in the licensed center are sterilized after each use,
ii. brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day,
iii. Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use.
(18) The licensee shall ensure,
i. that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of each
customer are put into a receptacle having being collected by sweeping or through
electrically operated mechanism ; and
ii. that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, after use of
each customer.
(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces of cut
hair are dumped in a pit at least one meter below the ground level at the end of daily activities or if
necessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure that
precautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.
(20) In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the manner set
out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the  Kinniya  Pradeshiya
Sabha scavenging vehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management program of the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(21) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacle used to
collect waste material produced at the licensed center.
(22) List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop.
(23) Every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employees who are
working at the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that
register when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.
(24) Every licensee of a Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keep affixed a
board with his name and the words "Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop and Beauty Centre"
legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises.
(25) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place to a medical test
at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop and Beauty Centre within the
authority of the  Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid license for the
purpose of that, issued by the Chairman
(27) (i) Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop and Beauty Centre shall
not keep or causes to keep any pet.
(ii) No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item for washing
clothes.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing
Tasks not to
be carried out
(26 –34)

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
44A
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the licensed place,
or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensed place,
unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(29) The interior of a licensed premises shall not be used in the night or in the day time as a place
for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall be allowed to do so.
(30) The use of,
(i) any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or
(ii) Alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, in
respect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises.
(31) The licensee in any licensed center shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towel
that is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.
(32) Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall be pursued
in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the license issued under the provisions of the
by-laws in this part.
(33) No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon except in to a
spittoon provided for that purpose.
(34) No licensee shall use any articles banned by Sri Lankan Law or Medical Officer of Health of
Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha at licensed premises.
(35) In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Barber Shop and beauty center is
maintained under a license issued under the By-Laws any license contravenes any section of these
By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee
demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
(36) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, the Secretary has the authority to
charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run any Hair Dressing
Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centers.
(ii)  Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the license fees for Hair Dressing
Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centers shall be the duty of  Kinniya  Pradeshiya
Sabha Chairman as specified in above sub section (i)
(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of  Kinniya
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(38) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
Function of the
Local Authority.
Charges and
fees.
Delegation of
power.
Valid period of
license or
permit.

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(39) (i) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(ii) It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received license under the
provisions, to the Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman or any Authorized officer for inspection,
and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.
(40)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 in these By- Laws, shall
act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 40 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws shall
be an offence.
(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the  Kinniya  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act,
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the  Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary,
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Authorized officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty,
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws of
the hair dressing saloon, Barber Shop and beauty center and person who is responsible for
management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place,
"Licensed premise" means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision,
"The appropriate time" means any occasion when service is being provided to the customers at
the premises,
"Apron" means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtaining
service from the licensed center.
Procedure of
inspection and
Powers(39-41).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws
Fines and
Penalties.
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
46A
SCHEDULE – 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and
Beauty Centers within the area of authority of  Kinniya  Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:——————————.
2 Place of the Business Centre:——————————.
(i)  Ward No.:——————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:——————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i)  Full Name:——————————.
(ii)  Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
(iv)  NIC No.:——————————.
(v)  Telephone No.:——————————.
(vi)  E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning the Business:——————————.
(ii) T ype of the Business:——————————.
(iii) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:——————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:——————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:——————————.
Date:———————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
Provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 47 -->

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward:…………………………                                                           Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………                              Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
……………………………….             …………………………………………
 Date               Sectional Head
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………
(iii) Under A/B/C
(iv) Remarks:………………………………………………………………………
         ………………………………. …………………………………………
            Date Revenue Inspector
For the Report of  the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
48A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                                               Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                                              M.O.H. report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                                             Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………….………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
 Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license …………… ………………… ……………………
………………….…  …………………………………………
Date Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………  …………………………………………
                  Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..
 Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
03-934

<!-- page 49 -->

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Notice of the Eastern Provincial Council
By Laws
Town & Gravets  Pradeshiya Sabha
I, Governor Anuradha Yahampath of the Eastern Provincial Council do hereby order publish the approval granted by me
under the power vested in me by section 123 sub section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15th of 1987,  read
with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, and the decision taken by the
Pradeshiya Sabha with decision number 357 at the Council meeting held on 21.05.2019 as per the power vested with the
Pradeshiya Sabha by section 122 subsection (1) of  the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15th of 1987, the following
scheduled Five (5) By-Laws made by the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested it in section 126
of sub section vii (f) and (xxx), ix (h),  ix (h) and xv, ix (k),  xxiii of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, shall
be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of Trincomalee Town & Gravets   from the date of publish in this
notification in the Government Gazette.
       A
NURADHA YAHAMPATH,
      Hon. Governor,
      Eastern Provincial Council.
Governor Secretariat,
Inner Habour Road,
Trincomalee.
31st January, 2020.
Schedule
1. By- Laws relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the Advertisement within the Local authority
area.
2. By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the Local authority area.
3. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries within the Local authority area.
4. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize Supervise and control of annoying business and dangerous business
within the Local authority area.
5. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and
Beauty Centres within the Local authority area.

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
50A
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
supervise advertisement displaying within the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensure
protection, comfort and Convenience of the People residing within the limits of the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section 126 (vii)
(f) and (xxx) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.
(4)  (i) Anybody who expects to obtain a license to display any advertisement within the  limits
of Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha shall forward an application substantially prepared
in accordance with  the specimen given in  Schedule-01 to the Chairman or  Authorized
Officer  at least four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to
be displayed.
(ii) The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer
of Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws
are duly fulfilled.
(5) (i) Every application forwarded to obtain a license shall contain a specimen of the
advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 milli metres x 297 milli
meters and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisement is
expected to be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297 mm.
Moreover, the exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have been indicated
therein.
(ii) When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a place owned
by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution written evidence
ensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement at the Particular
Place shall have been submitted.
(6) It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the license issued in
respect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each
advertisement or advertisements while such display is done.
(7) It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all the other
goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,
within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the
application.
(8)      (i) Advertisement relating to any entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose
of charity, an advertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon
which such advertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or
Provincial Council or Local Authority and an advertisement relating to a religious,
political or public meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business,
the charges of advertisement may be exempted and license in that behalf  shall be
obtained from the Chairman or  Authorized Officer .Further Provided that in any
advertisement and sign is illuminated advertisement and sky sign permits shall be
obtained by paying fees as specified in these By-Laws.
By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the
Advertisement within the area of authority of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha
Name of
By-Laws.
Objective.
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-12)

<!-- page 51 -->

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed
together with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when an
advertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any household,
such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these By-
laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of the administration of the
premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who shall obtain the license
in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.
(iii) The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any business premise
or any factory within the area of authority of the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha , to
a single notice depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise being
maintained at the said place of business or the nature of the products being produced at
the factory, for a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase
"on lease" or "for sale" or "available for rent" displayed on any property intended to be
given in lease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditions specified in these
By-Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at any time when more than
one such advertisement is displayed the provisions of these By-Laws shall apply in
respect of all such additional advertisements.
(9)  The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall
i. maintain such hoarding in a proper condition and security, and
ii. Exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legible
characters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.
(10)  Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the persons who
use the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage is
caused to the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the
damages to that person or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized
Officer of the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha shall be exempted of payment of such damages.
(11) Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by the Engineer.
(12)  (i) The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harm caused
or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing used in
this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due to the menacing
or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
(ii) The Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be responsible in any way for
removing, damaging or disfiguring of an advertisement obtained under the license for
exhibiting.
(13) (i) Unless any person has a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the
specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by the Chairman or
Authorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in any
form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place in the area of authority of
the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Even after obtaining a valid license for display of advertisements nobody shall display or
let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specifically stated
in the relevant license, to be seen at any public place.
(14) The period of validity of the license already issued to any other licensee in respect of the place
for which the license is currently requested shall have been completed valid time period. Further
there shall be sufficient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an
Tasks not to be
carried out
(13-21)

<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
52A
obstacle to issue a license to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the
viewing of the advertisement being displayed under a license previously issued and still in force.
(15) (i) The advertisement for which a display license is sought shall not contain any scenes or
words   which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harming
any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.
(ii) It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law of the
country.
(16)  Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accident to
a person walking near the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover,
fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver
driving a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be done.
(17) No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any religious
place or park or any bridge or street or  electrical post  or any tree or branch close to them or
any public building connected with them.
(18) An advertisement to be displayed in such manner over or across any pavement carriage way of
any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed  or attached to an overhead bridge
constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erected in a
manner approved by the  engineer.
(19) No person shall cause
(i). Any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form other than
that approved by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(ii). In addition to the approval given by the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha, any vehicle
bearing any illuminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent  of police, shall
be driven on any street or road .
(20) Any license issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered or
constructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression.
(21) (i) T own & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine which areas are allowed to display
advertisements within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) When conditions necessary for the issue of a license under the By-laws in this part have
been fulfilled in respect of any application, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall
inform the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer
to issue the license to the applicant after paying the fees for the license in the manner
set out in section 25(i) and fees for the security deposit set out in section 22(i) of By-
Law, after receipt of the above notice.
(iii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish a notification in the
Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement could be displayed
or exhibited .Such notification shall take effect from the date of its publication, or from
whatsoever date specified therein.
(iv) The Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha shall have power to construct or maintain an
advertisement board  Under these By-Laws as determined by Pradeshiya Sabha in any land
belongs to any person and given to the Pradeshiya Sabha on agreement or in any land
belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to recover the fees already
fixed by the Pradeshiya Sabha from the licensee to display any advertisement on the board
constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha under above sub section (ii).
Functions of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
( 21 – 24)

<!-- page 53 -->

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(vi) Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the fees for advertisement license
is duty of Chairman as specified in above paragraph (i) in these By Law No.25
(22) (i) When a decision has been made to issue a license in respect of any application forwarded
for the purpose of displaying an advertisement, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall
not issue the license for the said application until the applicant has deposited security
money in the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha at the rates to be determined by it
from time to time.
(ii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazette about
the decision taken by the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of the rate of
the security deposit to be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha prior to issuing a license to
display any advertisement.
(23) (i) After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-Law No. 7 ,
the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already deposited at the Town &
Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha before the issuing of the relevant license on a written request
made to the Chairman or  Authored Officer.
(ii) On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be the duty
of Chairman or  Authorized Officer to ensure,
(a) the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-laws No.7
(b) And that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha no damage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said
advertisement or due to any other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before
releasing the said deposit money to the said licensee.
(iii) Unless the Chairman or  Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the manner set
out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the Bylaws, No.
7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha,
the said deposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any licensee has
avoided acting in the manner stated in By-laws No. 7 or when any damage has been
caused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, suitable action shall be taken to deduct
from the deposit money expenditure that the Pradeshiya Sabha would have to bear to
effect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both, and only the
balance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.
(iv) When the money leviable by the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha in taking action in
the manner stated in paragraph (c) is more than the deposit money deposited, the
licensee shall pay the extra money payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request made by the
licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days to the licensee for
what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.
(24) Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a license issued by the
Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha and to take into the possession of the Pradeshiya Sabha or
remove in a manner decided by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(25) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987,  the Secretary has
the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to
display any advertisement, further
(ii) (a) Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha
under para 21(v) to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the place
belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha under these By-Laws.
Charges and fees

<!-- page 54 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
54A
Or
(b) Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed
where land is belonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .
(iii) Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law 22
(iv) Person who has applied for a temporary license to display any advertisement shall pay
license fee according to the decision made by the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
(v) When it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after the
expiry of the period of validity of the license currently issued for the display of any
advertisement a new license shall have been obtained on displaying the notice for such
succeeding year.
However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha
as charges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of license to be issued for the
display of advertisements, the same license fees determined earlier shall be recovered for the new
license to be issued for the display of the said advertisement.
(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any
other officer of Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha
(27) (i) V alidity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is
cancelled earlier
(ii) T emporary license shall be valid for days for which  license has been issued unless its
validity is cancelled earlier
(28) (i) When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing of any
advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or risk to
anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an order to bring
it back to proper conditions within two weeks.
(ii) It shall be lawful to cancel the issued license for such advertisement and remove the
advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer, when
anybody in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting in the manner
provided by the provisions of the notification.
(iii) When any license has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) the security
deposit, deposited at the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying that
advertisement shall acquire to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and nobody else shall
have the right to claim the deposit money.
(iv) It shall be lawful Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue temporary license for less than
fourteen days as required, However all conditions are applicable to issue temporary
license.
(29) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by this
officer.
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism

<!-- page 55 -->

55AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(31) When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any license issued having invited the attention in
respect of such violations.
(32) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted
before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of
Section 122(2).
(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Town & Gravets   Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of  Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya   Sabha
"Authorized Officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"The power to inspect within the specified period" means period from the time of sun shining
until the time of sun setting.
"Engineer" means Engineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by the
Chairman to carry out particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws a
person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of
the management of this place.
"Licensed premise means" place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"Superintendent of police" means, an officer in police station given authority for the specified
purpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.
"Cut-out" means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of wood or some other
material ;
"Display board" means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging an
advertisement displayed for the information and attention of the public ;
"Advertisement" means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or
notice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustrations
used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or any vehicle or
a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of the public and put in
place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;
Violation of By
Laws (30-31)
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 56 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
56A
PRADESHIYA SABHA
Application for the Advertisement
1. Full Name:—————————.
2. Address:—————————.
3. N.I.C.No:—————————.
4. Mobile No:—————————.
5. E-Mail Address:—————————.
6. Advertisement model annexed:—————————.
7. Location map annexed:—————————.
8. Type of Advertisement: -    One side/ Double sides/ Lighted:—————————.
9. Duration: - From:—————.       To:—————.
10. Size of Advertisement: - Length —————.      Width:—————. Height:—————.
I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be converted to
municipal property without any notice.
…………………. ……………………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer
Chief Revenue Inspector.
Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable
………………… …………………………………
Date  Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 57 -->

57AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Secretary
 Fitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended
…………………… ……………………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary,
Size of Advertisement:     Length ................   Wide ................... Area (square meter) ................
Detail Private Land RDD Road RDD Road LAA Land LAA Road
Agreement is made Yes/No
Land Rent (Rs200*sq)
Advertisement Fees (Rs100*sq)
Total Fees
Va t
NBT
Total Amount
……………………. ………………………………………
Date Management Assistant
Above advertisement is approved / not approved
……………………  ……………………………
Date Secretary

<!-- page 58 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
58A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..        Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….         Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
 ………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.
………………… ……………………………………..
Date  Field officer/ Technical of ficer.
 (Planning section)

<!-- page 59 -->

59AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the area
of authority of Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor hotels within the area of authority of Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126 (ix)
(h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in Schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Town &
Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to
the regulations noticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of
1978.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition.
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
(iii) Walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved stones
and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other rooms
which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal sheets
and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 meters from
floor level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them.
(ix) The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other
animals getting into them.
(x) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.
(xi) Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment for
making By-Law
Tasks to be
executed
(4-19)

<!-- page 60 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
60A
a) When the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.
Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.
b) When the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shall
be painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polished
impermeable material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.
(xii) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to be
obtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate
has been obtained.
(xiii) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall
be taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xiv) A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.
(xv) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories
shall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a
manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xvi) The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone or
any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While the
walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The floor
shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xvii) Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of this By
-Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well.
(xviii)Water supply facilities to each room at licensed premises shall be made in safe manner
by pipe line.
(xix) Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay and
polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed .
(xx) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises.
(xxi) In the event of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xxii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xxiii) At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks are
prepared shall have been covered with stainless metal sheets or tiles or with any
impermeable material.
(xxiv) All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers and
employees, shall be at least 04 square meters for one person (2 m length X 2m width).

<!-- page 61 -->

61AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Further, an Almira or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keep towel
or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attached
bathrooms shall be there.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying waste
water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.
(8) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedsheets, pillow covers,
blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before to be
provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely opened
at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However there
shall be at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with air
condition in operation.
(9) Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address, and
identity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to
allow it, to be examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.
(10) It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean every room,
stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.
(11) Lavatories and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with
disinfectants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating dour. However, it
may be considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which
customers are staying once a day.
(12) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items or
implements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to be
consumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after using.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day
if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is
being put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or

<!-- page 62 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
62A
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(15) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects and
it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept there
and food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.
(16) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or any
other instruments shall be used to serve food.
(17) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be provided
with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee
to ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety
materials when they are on duty.
(18) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush and
soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(19) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(20) No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she
has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom.
(22) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply with the
minimum space specified in para (xxiv) of By Law 5.
(23) No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.
(24) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and there of
the land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place specified.
(25) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed.
(ii) No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(26) (i) Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve in any
unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.
(ii) any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 20 – 29)

<!-- page 63 -->

63AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or
residence living closely
(27) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law 30
(28) (i) No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milk products not contained
the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown below accordance with the
food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
dated 01.08.1991 under the food act No. 26 of 1980.
(ii) Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit for
human consumption.
(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of
(i) more than one bed in a single bedroom
(ii) more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom
(iii) more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom, and
(iv) more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single beds or
five single beds in a family room.
Further, in respect of any hotel the license shall not allow more than one person to sleep in a single
room or more than two in a double room or more than three in triple room. However, when the age
of the anybody sleeping in any room that person is below 12 years shall not be considered as one
person for purpose of this section.
(30) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind
of food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.
(31) In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a license issued, any license
contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action
to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore
the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(32) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(33) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any
other officer of Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(34) The validity of every license issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(35) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-
laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(36) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-
laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the
Chairman or any Authorized Officer.
(37) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- law No. 31, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(30 – 31)
Charges and fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(35-38)

<!-- page 64 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
64A
or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(38) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-law No. 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(39) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(40) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(41) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted
before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of
section 122(2)
(42) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act, of Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha.
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘Urban Development Authority “ means, the urban development authority constituted under
urban development Law No. 41 of 1978
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period” means, opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for
display or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are prepared and kept
for sale or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;
‘‘Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 65 -->

65AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
double beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
‘‘Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with a
double bed and one single bed or three single beds ;
‘‘Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or
two single beds.
‘‘Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one
bed ;
‘‘Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed
and a mattress ;
‘‘Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one mattress and a bed ;
Annexure -01
Compositional Requirements of milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat minimum Milk solids other
percent than milk  fact
minimum percent
1. Buffalo Row , pasteurized or
sterilized 7.0 9.0
2. cow Do. 3.5 8.5
3. Standardized Pasteurized or sterilized 3.25 8.25
4. Toned Do. 2.0 8.5
5. Flavored Do. 2.0 7.2
6. Skimmed Do. - 8.5

<!-- page 66 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
66A
 Schedule-01
Application For Business tax / License 20.. for conducting Hotel within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:——————————.
2. Place of the Business center:——————————.
(i) Ward No.: ——————————.
(ii) Assessment No.:——————————.
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i) Full Name:——————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
(iv) NIC No.:——————————.
(v) Telephone No.:——————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:——————————.
(ii) T ype of business:——————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:——————————.
(iv) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:——————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-                   Yes: No:————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:——————————.
Date:——————————.
7. The number of:
(i) Single rooms in the lodging house:
(ii) Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
(iii) T riple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
(iv) Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
(v) All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …
9. Toilets :
(i) The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii) The number of toilets for female employees: … …
(iii) The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv) The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
10. Bathrooms:
(i) The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii) The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …

<!-- page 67 -->

67AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
12. Source of water supply: ……………………
13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:……………………………………………………
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in
the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
 ……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward……………………                                            Assessment No……………………
Name of Street……………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value…………………………        Arrears of the assessment tax………………….
……………………. …………………………………………
Date Administrative Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch,
1. Type of business……………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks……………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Revenue Inspector
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….…………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………
………………………….   …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 68 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
68A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement………………………. Nature………………………….
Environmental License………………… M.O.H report…………………...
C.O.C……………………………………. Excise License…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
 ………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue
license………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
…………………… …………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                                     Date of the
Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                                      Date of the
License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
Date  …………………..   …………………………
Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date. Secretary.
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date. Pradeshiya Sa bha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 69 -->

69AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries
Within the area of authority of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control
and monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126
(ix) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Town &
Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.
(i) Premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition whether the energy is obtained
by means of firewood, Electricity or any other way.
(ii) W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(iii)  Each room shall be cilium and cilium is in height not less than 3.0 metres from floor level.
(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles.
(v) The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least in a
height of 3.0 meters from the ground level of the room.
(vi) Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones with both
sides of    the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls have been
completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timber shall be
applied with paints.
(vii) All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.
(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at
least 2.5 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least
1.0 meter in width.
(ix) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be renewed at least
once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate has been
obtained.
(x) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall
be taken to prevent contamination of that water.
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
Executed (4-25)

<!-- page 70 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
70A
(xi) Supplying water to each room of the license premises shall be made in manner by pipe
line.
(xii) In the event of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meter away from the constructed well.
(xiii) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.
(xiv) When the bakery requesting a license is one using wood,
(a) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built a
height of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.
(b) A sufficient receptacle to be kept to the dispose of ash and remnants of wood
removed from the oven of the bakery.
(c) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.
(d) A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel.
(xv)  When the bakery requesting a license is using electricity-
(a) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to the bakery equipment shall be in a
safe condition and trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage and
leaks in electricity shall have been fixed.
(b) Electric cables of electric circuit fixed within the premises shall be drawn through
pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.
(6) If electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery, general fire extinguishing equipment
shall be maintained in working condition, and electrical fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in
addition.
(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No. 5 in these By-Laws to have been applied with paints shall
be so applied with paints at least once a year.
(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a week.
(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been finishing smoothly
without any gaps otherwise there shall be fully covered with stainless metal sheets.
(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to
a medical test at least once a year.
(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in prompt
maintaining condition.

<!-- page 71 -->

71AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) The licensee shall have to be supplied necessary face masks gloves and other safety materials
to the employees and to be ensure whether the employees are wearing those after having body wash
or bath when they have engage with their duty within the license premises.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a week or more than if
necessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put
or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows:–
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic  related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metals or iron or any other metals;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(15) A separate room shall be maintained exclusively used for storage of flour other ingredients
used in the bakery shall  be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of rats, flies or any
other kind of insects.
(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 in these By-Laws a rack made
of timber on a stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack
shall have been finished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover,
while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects
remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.
(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken out and
cleaned at least twice a month.
(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for males
and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructed
at a distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale of
products such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

<!-- page 72 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
72A
(19) All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean
nails and soap or fluid soap.
(20) It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronic
balance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under
the provisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any
customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.
(21) In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall be the
duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of
waste material or water.
(22) Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,
Sinhala and English.
(23) Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorized by
the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(24) Name list (including sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of
Chairman or Authorized Officer
(25) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a bakery within the authority of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha
area, unless having a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the specimen
found in schedule 1 for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(27) Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakery
products are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of
bakery products at any time.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person shall engage himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any
licensed premise without having clean dress.
(29) Unauthorized Chemicals and Colorings shall not be used for the bakery products.
(30) No person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws in this part,
and shall not be keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for
the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees of
the bakery shall not be included to this.
(31) Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products. Further,
if the unground water tank is constructed for use, it should be constructed a distance of 18 meters
away from waste fit or ash fit.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(26-34)

<!-- page 73 -->

73AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(32) No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.
(33) No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided for purpose.
(34) Any licensee shall not resist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 35
(35) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed
premise.
(36) In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a license issued under the
By-Laws any license contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized
Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(37) Under the Sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, Secretary has the authority
to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(38) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of Town &
Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(39)The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(40) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By- Laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(41) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these
By-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the
Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.
(42) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 35, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(43) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the
place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 fails to act as
stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(44) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(45) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(35-36).
Charges and fees
Delegation of
Powers.
Valid period of
license or permit.
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(40-43).
Complaints and
esolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law

<!-- page 74 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
74A
(46) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabhas limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted
before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of
section 122(2).
(47)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” period from the time of sun shining until
the time of sun setting.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law and
person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge   or Manager
of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured
in any bakery for sale or on order placed by any person.
‘‘Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are
manufactured and it shall also include any place where such food prepared or where goods are
stored for preparation of such food.
Interpretation and
Definition.
Fines and
Penalties.

<!-- page 75 -->

75AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Schedule 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area of
authority of Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:-
2. Place of the Business center:-
(i) Ward No.:-
(ii) Assessment No.:-
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i) Full Name:-
(ii) Permanent Address:-
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv) NIC No.:————————.
(v) Telephone No.:————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:————————.
(ii) T ype of business:————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:————————.
(iv) Previous Business:————————.
5. If it is rented building
(i) Name of the Owner:————————.
(ii) Address:————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-Yes: No:————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:————————.
Date:————————.
I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..,
Date  Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 76 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
76A
For Office Use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                      Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :…………………………         Arrears of the assessment tax :………………….
……………………………… …………………………………………,
Date  Administrative Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Department,
1. Type of business :………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid :……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 ……… ……………………. …………………………………………,
Date   Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
.................
……………………………. …………………………………………,
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………. ……………………………. ,
Date Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 77 -->

77AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………,
Date Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………,
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………. …………………………………………,
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:…………………………......
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..,
 Sectional Head(Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………,
Date Secretary.
Signed
                   ……………………. …………………………………………,
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 78 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
78A
 By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, Supervise and control of annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the area of
authority of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as   By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and
control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section126 (ix)
(k) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in annexure 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous and
annoying business carrying by the Chairman or Chairman of Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, if
only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled:
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition ;
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 meters in height ;
(iii) Walls has to be made of bricks, cement or lime stone or any other permitted stone and
should be plastered and white washed ;
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from floor
level ;
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable ;
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1 meter
max trail ;
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles ;
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them ;
(ix) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws ;
(x) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of wastewater
disposed from any section of the premises;
(xi) In the event of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-15)

<!-- page 79 -->

79AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without Mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen Meters away from the constructed
well.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where white washing is needed to be
applied under By-Law No. 5 in these By-Law shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.
(8) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo. 9
in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more if
necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being
put or removed.
(9) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron and any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(10) All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying or
effluvial.
(11) All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering and put in
to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.
(12) All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring from the
production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall be
disposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.
(13) All license holders shall be kept wall of business premise in safe mode without absorbing any
dirty and keep in good manner.
(14) All license holders shall kept baskets and other instruments clean should have wash the utilities
daily.
(15) All license holders clean the tank which using for wash or drunk leather or any other materials
without spreading any smell.
(16) No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and
dangerousbusiness carrying within the authorized area of Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, unless
he or she has poses a valid license issued by the chairman or authorized officer on the application
prepared according to the specimen found in annexure 01.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(16 – 18)

<!-- page 80 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
80A
(17) No any person or licensee holder shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the place
for sleeping and taking food inside in night or day time.
(18) Any license holder should not use any river, watercourse, canal, well or any drain, sea or any
other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall not be
polluted above mentioned water resources.
(19) In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous
and annoying business is maintained under a license issued under this By-Laws, any contravenes
arose of any section of the By-Law the chairman or authorized officer shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee for demanding him to take necessary measures to accomplish with
prescribed conditions to reset the said premise to the approved position before a specified date.
(20) Any Person running dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying business
decided by Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha are included in orderly in schedule Nos. (I), (II), and
(III) of this By Law, it is duty of the Chairman and authorized officer to informing such person
about issuing the license.
(21) It is a duty of the Chairman or authorized officer to inform the applicant whether it is
accepted to issue license or rejected with the reason in accordance with these by laws within 30
days of receiving an application.
(22) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary hasthe
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business.
(23) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(24) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(25) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any authorized
officer.
(26) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No. 19, shall act as
stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received,
the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not
be exceeded 14 days.
(27) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned By-law No. 26 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(28) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(29) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws is
an offence.
Functions of the
Local Authority
(19-21)
Charges and  fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (25-27)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws

<!-- page 81 -->

81AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted
before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of
Section 122(2).
(31) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
by the provisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act;
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Town & Gravets  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabhas;
‘‘Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty;
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” means opportunity for take   measures to
make business or product at the specified place;
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws
and person who is responsible for management, is employed by  the person in-charge or
Manager of the management of this place;”
‘‘Licensed premise” means, specific range of place for which is issued license to take all
measures under these provisions.
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 82 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
82A
FIRST SCHEDULE
Annoying Businesses
(1)    Clearing and Storing Graphite.
(2)    Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.
(3)    Tanning of Leather.
(4)    Leather for selling.
(5)    Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or egg).
(6)    Producing of Maldives fish or storing more than 50 Kg.
(7)    Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.
(8)    Maintaining a veterinary hospital.
(9)    Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.
(10)  Taking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.
(11)  Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.
(12)  Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.
(13)  Drying tobacco.
(14)  Producing animal feed.
(15)  Producing Poonac.
(16)  Boiling meats with blood.
(17)  Producing soap
(18)  Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.
(19)  Making trunk boxes.
(20)  Keeping new and old metals.
(21)  Keeping ruined metals
(22)  Making housing furniture.
(23)  Making cane products.
(24)  Maintaining carpeting industry.
(25)  Making syrup or fruit juice.
(26)  Making sweets.
(27)  Dunking coconut husks
(28)  Producing brushes. (except tooth brushes)
(29)  Producing tooth brushes
(30)  Collecting toddy.
(31)  Producing vinegar.
(32)  Cleaving timber.
(33)  Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.
(34)  Producing soda.

<!-- page 83 -->

83AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(35)  Painting fibers.
(36)  Producing leather instruments.
(37)  Tin fish, fruits and other foods.
(38)  Powdering coffee and grains.
(39)  Producing baking powder.
(40)  Making gas mantels.
(41)  Producing putty.
(42)  Making camphor.
(43)  Making candle.
(44)  Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.
(45)  Producing blue of cloth washing.
(46)  Producing sealing wax.
(47)  Producing perfumes.
(48)  Producing shocks.
(49)  Producing tires or tubes.
(50)  Refill tires.
(51)  Vulcanizing tires.
(52)  Manufacturing cement.
(53)  Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.
(54)  Manufacturing sand papers.
(55)  Manufacturing plastic products.
(56)  Kilning bricks.
(57)  Weaving clothes by machines.
(58)  Manufacturing or re storing of acids.
(59)  Manufacturing of roofing tiles.
(60)  Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.
(61)  Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.
(62)  Manufacturing garments products.
(63)  Running a poultry farm.
(64)  Manufacturing disinfectants.
(65)  Repairing and renovation of tires and tubes.
(66)  Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.
(67)  Manufacturing cigarettes and cigarettes with tobacco.

<!-- page 84 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
84A
SECOND SCHEDULE
Dangerous Businesses
(1) Quarrying metal.
(2) Making cool drinks (aerated water).
(3) Making ice.
(4) Manufacturing vegetable oils.
(5) Manufacturing coconut oils.
(6) Manufacturing or storing matches.
(7) Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.
(8) Manufacturing tea boxes.
(9) Manufacturing coir or other fibers.
(10) Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.
(11) Storing hay.
(12) Storing used garments.
(13) Manufacturing and repairing jewelries.
(14) Sawing timber by machines.
(15) Quarrying lime stone.
(16) Running a business using machines.
(17) Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.
(18) Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.
(19) Storing used papers and newspapers.
(20) Spray Painting.
(21) Storing fire working or crackers.
(22) Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)
(23) Running a welding work shop.
(24) Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.
(25) Printers.
(26) Blasting and gunpowder stores.
(27) Displaying advertisement
THIRD SCHEDULE
Annoying and Dangerous Businesses
(1) Clearing mica.
(2) Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.
(3) dry clean or dyeing.
(4) Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.
(5) Electro planting metals.
(6) Manufacture of oil or animal oil.
(7) Kilning lime stones.
(8) Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.
(9) Processing cod-liver oil.
(10) Building boats.
(11) Recharge or repairing batteries

<!-- page 85 -->

85AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) Welding metals.
(13) Repairing motor vehicles.
(14) Servicing motor vehicles.
(15) Grinding metals with machines.
(16) Running a casting shop.
(17) Running a tin workshop.
(18) Making bodies for motor vehicles.
(19) Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.
(20) Manufacturing disinfectors.
(21) Manufacturing of mosquito coils.
(22) Manufacturing timber protects.
(23) Manufacturing gal tar.
(24) Manufacturing glass products.
(25) Making glass mirrors.
(26) Galvanize metals.
(27) Manufacturing welding lead.
(28) Manufacturing aluminum products.
(29) Manufacturing barbed wire.
(30) Manufacturing wire nails.
(31) Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.
(32) Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.
(33) Manufacturing P.I buckets.
(34) Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(35) Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(36) Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.
(37) Manufacturing machineries.
(38) Manufacturing electrical products.
(39) Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.
(40) Manufacturing storage batteries.
(41) Assembling tractors.
(42) Manufacturing radiator.
(43) Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.
(44) Manufacturing Battery.
(45) Paddy mills.
(46) Making coffin.
(47) Manufacturing and repairing telephones.
(48) Assembling and repairing electrical products.
(49) Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments
(50) Funeral service supply center (Funeral home)

<!-- page 86 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
86A
Annexure 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business,
and annoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:—————————.
2. Place of the Business Centre:—————————.
(i) Ward No.:—————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:—————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:—————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:—————————.
(i) Full Name:—————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:—————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
(iv) NIC No.:—————————.
(v) Telephone No.:—————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:—————————.
(i) Date of Beginning the Business:—————————.
(ii) Name of the manager of the meat Stall:—————————.
(iii) Previous Business:—————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:—————————.
(ii) Address:—————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:—————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.: —————————.
Date:—————————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
 Date Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 87 -->

87AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For Office Use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward:…………………………                                 Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. ………………………………………
 Date Administrative Officer
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii) Remarks:………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                            M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                           Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chief Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 88 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
88A
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………………….  …………………………………………
 Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….  Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License
………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………  …………………………………………
 Date  Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 89 -->

89AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as in relating to formulate, regularize, control and supervise of
Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the Town &
Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section
126 (XXIII) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Center by the
Chairman or Authorized officer of Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified
conditions are duly fulfilled.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.
(ii) W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
(iii) These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from
floor level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the place
where the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning.
(viii) Provide sufficient sitting space at least 1.5 square meter to each customer arriving at the
premises expecting service.
(ix) There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if water is
used in providing services to customers
(x) In the event of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making
By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed
(4-25)
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair
Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the
Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 90 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
90A
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xi) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.
(xii) The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated from
the buildings used as a residence.
(xiii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xiv) Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under   By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The floor of the licensed premises shall wash with disinfectants at least once a month.
(8) During the period of providing service to customers there shall be sufficient and continuous
water supply to the premises.
(9) It shall be enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and a sufficient number
of utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils.
(10) It shall be sufficient wash basins, soap or liquid soap for the use of employees when they are
providing services at the licensed premises.
(11) Sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colors (not in dark colors) shall be provided
for the use of the customers at the premises.
(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle shall be kept with a tight lid to collect cut hair
and other waste.
(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event of
electrically controlled instruments are used.
(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box shall be kept containing sufficient amount of first aid
instruments and drugs as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health.
(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner as to
be readily available to customers and employees.
(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed center —
i. Having bath or body wash before providing services
ii. maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition
iii. keep their nails cut and without any dirt
iv. Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer

<!-- page 91 -->

91AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,
i. instruments used in the licensed center are sterilized after each use
ii. brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day
iii. Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use
(18) The licensee shall ensure
i. that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of each
customer are put into a receptacle having being collected by sweeping or through
electrically operated mechanism ; and
ii. that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, after use of
each customer.
(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces of
cut hair are dumped in a pit at least one meter below the ground level at the end of daily activities
or if necessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure
that precautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.
(20) In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the manner set
out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha scavenging vehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management program
of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(21) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacle used
to collect waste material produced at the licensed center.
(22) List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop.
(23) Every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employees who are
working at the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that
register when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.
(24) Every licensee of a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keep affixed a
board with his name and the words "Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre"
legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises.
(25) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place to a medical test
at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre within the authority
of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid license for the purpose
of that, issued by the Chairman
(27) (i) Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall not
keep or causes to keep any pet.
(ii) No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item for
washing clothes.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing
Tasks not to
be carried out
(26 –34)

<!-- page 92 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
92A
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the licensed place,
or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation period
of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensed place,
unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(29) The interior of a licensed premises shall not be used in the night or in the day time as a place
for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall be allowed to do so.
(30) The use of,
(i) any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or
(ii) Alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, in
respect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises.
(31) The licensee in any licensed center shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towel
that is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.
(32) Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall be pursued
in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the license issued under the provisions of the
by-laws in this part.
(33) No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon except in to a
spittoon provided for that purpose.
(34) No licensee shall use any articles banned by Sri Lankan Law or Medical Officer of Health of
Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha at licensed premises.
(35) In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center is
maintained under a license issued under the By-Laws any license contravenes any section of these
By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee
demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
(36) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, the Secretary has the authority to
charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run any Hair
Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers.
(ii)  Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the license fees for Hair Dressing
Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers shall be the duty of Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman as specified in above sub section (i)
(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha.
(38) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
Function of the
Local Authority.
Charges and fees.
Delegation of
power.
Valid period of
license or permit.

<!-- page 93 -->

93AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(39) (i) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(ii) It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received license under the
provisions, to the Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman or any Authorized officer for inspection,
and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.
(40)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 in these By- Laws, shall
act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 40 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated
in the notice on or before the specified date.
(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws shall
be an offence.
(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Town & Gravets
Pradeshiya Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted
before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of
Section 122(2).
(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Town & Gravets Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Authorized officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws of
the hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center and person who is responsible for
management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise" means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"The appropriate time" means any occasion when service is being provided to the customers at
the premises.
"Apron" means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtaining
service from the licensed center.
Procedure of
inspection and
Powers (39-41).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws
Fines and
Penalties.
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 94 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
94A
SCHEDULE – 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centers within the area of authority of Town & Gravet s Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:——————————.
2. Place of the Business Centre:——————————.
(i)  Ward No.:——————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:——————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i)  Full Name:——————————.
(ii)  Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
(iv)  NIC No.:——————————.
(v)  Telephone No.:——————————.
(vi)  E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning the Business:——————————.
(ii) T ype of the Business:——————————.
(iii) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:-
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:——————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:——————————.
Date:———————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
Provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 95 -->

95AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For Office Use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward:…………………………                                                           Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………                             Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Sectional Head
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………
(iii) Under A/B/C
(iv) Remarks:………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the Report of  the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 96 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
96A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                                                      Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                                                   M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                                                     Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………….………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
 Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license …………… ………………… ……………………
………………….…  …………………………………………
Date Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………  …………………………………………
                  Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..
 Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
03-935

<!-- page 97 -->

97AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Notice of the Eastern Provincial Council
By Laws
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
I, Governor Anuradha Yahampath of the Eastern Provincial Council do hereby order publish the approval granted by
me under the power vested in me by section 123 Sub section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15th of 1987,  read
with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, and the decision taken by the
Pradeshiya Sabha with decision number 20 at the Council meeting held on 2019.05.30  as per the power vested with
the Pradeshiya Sabha  by section 122 subsection (1) of  the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15th of 1987, the following
scheduled Five (5) By-Laws made by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested it in section 126 of
sub section vii (f) and (xxx), ix (h),  ix (h) and xv, ix (k),  xxiii of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, shall be
effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of Kuchchaveli from the date of publish in this notification in the
Government Gazette .
       A
NURADHA YAHAMPATH,
      Hon. Governor,
      Eastern Provincial Council.
Governor Secretariat,
Inner Habour Road,
Trincomalee.
31st January, 2020.
Schedule
1. By- Laws relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the Advertisement within the Local authority area.
2. By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the Local authority area.
3. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries within the Local authority area.
4. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize Supervise and  control of annoying business and dangerous business
within the Local authority area.
5. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centres within the Local authority area.

<!-- page 98 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
98A
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
supervise advertisement displaying within the Kuchchaveli Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensure
protection, comfort and Convenience of the People residing within the limits of the Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabha
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section 126 (vii)
(f) and (xxx) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4)  (i) Anybody who expects to obtain a license to display any advertisement within the  limits
of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha shall forward an application substantially prepared in
accordance with  the specimen given in  Schedule-01 to the Chairman or  Authorized
Officer  at least four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to
be displayed.
(ii) The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws are duly
fulfilled.
(5) (i) Every application forwarded to obtain a license shall contain a specimen of the
advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 milli metres x 297 milli meters
and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisement is expected to
be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297 mm. Moreover, the
exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have been indicated therein.
(ii) When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a place owned
by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution written evidence
ensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement at the Particular
Place shall have been submitted.
(6) It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the license issued in
respect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each
advertisement or advertisements while such display is done.
(7) It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all the other
goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,
within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the
application.
(8)      (i) Advertisement relating to any entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose
of charity, an advertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon
which such advertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or
Provincial Council or Local Authority and an advertisement relating to a religious, political
or public meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business, the
charges of advertisement may be exempted and license in that behalf  shall be obtained
from the Chairman or  Authorized Officer .Further Provided that in any advertisement and
sign is illuminated advertisement and sky sign permits shall be obtained by paying fees as
specified in these By-Laws.
By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the
Advertisement within the area of authority of the Kuchchaveli Pradeshiya Sabha
Name of
By-Laws.
Objective.
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-12)

<!-- page 99 -->

99AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed
together with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when an
advertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any household,
such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these By-
laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of the administration of the
premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who shall obtain the license
in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.
(iii) The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any business premise
or any factory within the area of authority of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha , to a
single notice depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise being
maintained at the said place of business or the nature of the products being produced at
the factory, for a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase
"on lease" or "for sale" or "available for rent" displayed on any property intended to be
given in lease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditions specified in these
By-Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at any time when more than
one such advertisement is displayed the provisions of these By-Laws shall apply in
respect of all such additional advertisements.
(9)  The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall
i. maintain such hoarding in a proper condition and security, and
ii. Exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legible
characters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.
(10)  Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the persons who
use the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage is
caused to the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the
damages to that person or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized
Officer of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha shall be exempted of payment of such damages.
(11) Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by the Engineer.
(12)  (i) The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harm caused
or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing used in
this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due to the menacing
or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
(ii) The Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be responsible in any way for removing,
damaging or disfiguring of an advertisement obtained under the license for exhibiting.
(13) (i) Unless any person has a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the
specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by the Chairman or
Authorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in any
form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place in the area of authority of
the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Even after obtaining a valid license for display of advertisements nobody shall display or
let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specifically stated
in the relevant license, to be seen at any public place.
(14) The period of validity of the license already issued to any other licensee in respect of the place
for which the license is currently requested shall have been completed valid time period. Further
there shall be sufficient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an
obstacle to issue a license to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the
viewing of the advertisement being displayed under a license previously issued and still in force.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(13-21)

<!-- page 100 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
100A
(15) (i) The advertisement for which a display license is sought shall not contain any scenes or
words   which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harming
any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.
(ii) It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law of the
country.
(16)  Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accident to
a person walking near the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover,
fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving
a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be done.
(17) No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any religious
place or park or any bridge or street or  electrical post  or any tree or branch close to them or  any
public building connected with them.
(18) An advertisement to be displayed in such manner over or across any pavement carriage way of
any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed  or attached to an overhead bridge
constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erected in a
manner approved by the  engineer.
(19) No person shall cause
(i). Any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form other than
that approved by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(ii). In addition to the approval given by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, any vehicle
bearing any illuminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent  of police, shall
be driven on any street or road .
(20) Any license issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered or
constructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression.
(21) (i) Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine which areas are allowed to display
advertisements within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) When conditions necessary for the issue of a license under the By-laws in this part have
been fulfilled in respect of any application, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall inform
the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue
the license to the applicant after paying the fees for the license in the manner set out in
section 25(i) and fees for the security deposit set out in section 22(i) of By-Law, after
receipt of the above notice.
(iii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish a notification in the
Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement could be displayed or
exhibited .Such notification shall take effect from the date of its publication, or from
whatsoever date specified therein.
(iv) The Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha shall have power to construct or maintain an
advertisement board  Under these By-Laws as determined by Pradeshiya Sabha in any
land belongs to any person and given to the Pradeshiya Sabha on agreement or in any
land belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to recover the fees already fixed
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from the licensee to display any advertisement on the board
constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha under above sub section (ii).
(vi) Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the fees for advertisement license is
duty of Chairman as specified in above paragraph (i) in these By Law No.25.
Functions of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(21 – 24)

<!-- page 101 -->

101AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(22) (i) When a decision has been made to issue a license in respect of any application forwarded
for the purpose of displaying an advertisement, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall
not issue the license for the said application until the applicant has deposited security
money in the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha at the rates to be determined by it from time
to time.
(ii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazette about
the decision taken by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of the rate of the
security deposit to be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha prior to issuing a license to
display any advertisement.
(23) (i) After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-Law No. 7 ,
the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already deposited at the
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha before the issuing of the relevant license on a written
request made to the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(ii) On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be the duty
of Chairman or  Authorized Officer to ensure,
(a) the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-laws No.7
(b) And that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabha no damage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said
advertisement or due to any other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before
releasing the said deposit money to the said licensee.
(iii) Unless the Chairman or  Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the manner set
out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the Bylaws,
No. 7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabha, the said deposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any
licensee has avoided acting in the manner stated in By-laws No. 7 or when any damage
has been caused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, suitable action shall be taken to
deduct from the deposit money expenditure that the Pradeshiya Sabha would have to bear
to effect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both, and only the
balance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.
(iv) When the money leviable by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha in taking action in the
manner stated in paragraph (c) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee
shall pay the extra money payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request made by the
licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days to the licensee for
what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.
(24) Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a license issued by the
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha and to take into the possession of the Pradeshiya Sabha or remove
in a manner decided by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(25) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987,  the Secretary has
the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to
display any advertisement, further
(ii) (a) Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
under para 21(v) to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the place
belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha under these By-Laws.
Or
Charges and fees

<!-- page 102 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
102A
(b) Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed
where land is belonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .
(iii) Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law 22
(iv) Person who has applied for a temporary license to display any advertisement shall pay
license fee according to the decision made by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha from
time to time.
(v) When it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after the expiry
of the period of validity of the license currently issued for the display of any
advertisement a new license shall have been obtained on displaying the notice for such
succeeding year.
However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha as
charges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of license to be issued for the
display of advertisements, the same license fees determined earlier shall be recovered for the new
license to be issued for the display of the said advertisement.
(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other officer
of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(27) (i) V alidity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is
cancelled earlier.
(ii) T emporary license shall be valid for days for which  license has been issued unless its
validity is cancelled earlier.
(28) (i) When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing of
any advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or risk to
anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an order to bring it
back to proper conditions within two weeks.
(ii) It shall be lawful to cancel the issued license for such advertisement and remove the
advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer, when anybody
in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting in the manner provided
by the provisions of the notification.
(iii) When any license has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) the security
deposit, deposited at the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying that
advertisement shall acquire to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and nobody else shall
have the right to claim the deposit money.
(iv) It shall be lawful Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue temporary license for less than
fourteen days as required, However all conditions are applicable to issue temporary
license.
(29) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by this
officer.
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism

<!-- page 103 -->

103AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(31) When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any license issued having invited the attention in
respect of such violations.
(32) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of  Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya   Sabha
"Authorized Officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"The power to inspect within the specified period" means period from the time of sun shining
until the time of sun setting.
"Engineer" means Engineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by the
Chairman to carry out particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws
a person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager
of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise means" place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"Superintendent of police" means, an officer in police station given authority for the specified
purpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.
"Cut-out" means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of wood or some other
material ;
"Display board" means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging an
advertisement displayed for the information and attention of the public ;
"Advertisement" means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or
notice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustrations
used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or any vehicle or
a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of the public and put in
place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;
Violation of By
Laws (30-31)
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 104 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
104A
PRADESHIYA SABHA
Application for the Advertisement
1. Full Name:—————————.
2. Address:—————————.
3. N.I.C.No.:—————————.
4. Mobile No.:—————————.
5. E-Mail Address:—————————.
6. Advertisement model annexed:—————————.
7. Location map annexed:—————————.
8. Type of Advertisement: -    One side/ Double sides/ Lighted:—————————.
9. Duration: - From:—————.       To:—————.
10. Size of Advertisement: - Length —————.      Width:—————. Height:—————.
I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be converted to municipal
property without any notice.
…………………. ……………………………………..,
Date  Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer
Chief Revenue Inspector.
Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable
………………… ………………………………… ,
Date  Revenue Inspector.

<!-- page 105 -->

105AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Secretary
 Fitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended
…………………… ……… ……………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary,
Size of Advertisement:     Length ................   Wide ................... Area (square meter) ................
           Detail Private Land RDD Road RDA Road LAA Land LAA Road
Agreement is made Yes/No
Land Rent (Rs200*sq)
Advertisement Fees (Rs100*sq)
Total Fees
Va t
NBT
Total Amount
……………………. ……………………………………… ,
Date Management Assistant.
Above advertisement is approved / not approved
……………………  …… ………………………,
Date Secretary.

<!-- page 106 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
106A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..        Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….         Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
 ………………………………..,
Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
……………………………….  …………………………………………,
Date  Secretary.
Signed
…………………… …………………………………………,
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.
Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.
………………… ……………………………………..
Date  Field officer/ Technical officer.
 (Planning section)

<!-- page 107 -->

107AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the
area of authority of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor hotels within the area of authority of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the Section 3 of the Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126 (ix)
(h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in Schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in
addition to the regulations noticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law
No. 41 of 1978.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition.
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height.
(iii) Walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved stones
and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other rooms
which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal sheets and
painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 meters from floor
level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them.
(ix) The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other
animals getting into them.
(x) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.
(xi) Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment for
making By-Law
Tasks to be
executed
(4-19)

<!-- page 108 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
108A
(a) When the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.
Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.
(b) When the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shall
be painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polished
impermeable material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.
(xii) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to be
obtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality
Certificate has been obtained.
(xiii) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall
be taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xiv) A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.
(xv) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories
shall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a
manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xvi) The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone or
any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While the
walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The
floor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xvii) Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of this By
-Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well.
(xviii) W ater supply facilities to each room at licensed premises shall be made in safe manner
by pipe line.
(xix) Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay
and polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.
(xx) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises.
(xxi) In the event of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise,
action shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered
without mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from
the constructed well.
(xxii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xxiii)  At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks are
prepared shall have been covered with stainless metal sheets or tiles or with any
impermeable material.
(xxiv)  All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers and
employees, shall be at least 04 square meters for one person (2 m length X 2m width).

<!-- page 109 -->

109AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Further, an Almira or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keep towel
or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attached
bathrooms shall be there.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying waste
water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.
(8) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedsheets, pillow covers,
blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before to be
provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely opened
at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However there
shall be at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with air
condition in operation.
(9) Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address, and
identity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to
allow it, to be examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.
(10) It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean every room,
stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.
(11) Lavatories and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with
disinfectants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating dour. However, it
may be considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which
customers are staying once a day.
(12) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items or
implements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to be
consumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after using.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
No. 14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a
day if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is
being put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.

<!-- page 110 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
110A
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(15) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects and it
is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept there
and food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.
(16) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or any
other instruments shall be used to serve food.
(17) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be provided
with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee
to ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety
materials when they are on duty.
(18) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush and
soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(19) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(20) No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she
has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom
(22) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply with the
minimum space specified in para (xxiv) of By Law 5.
(23) No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.
(24) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and there of
the land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place specified
(25) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed.
(ii) No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(26) (i) Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve in any
unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 20 – 29)

<!-- page 111 -->

111AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or
making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or
residence living closely
(27) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law 30
(28) (i) No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products not
contained the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown below accordance
with the food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of
Srilanka dated 01.08.1991 under the food act No. 26 of 1980.
(ii) Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit for
human consumption.
(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of
(i) more than one bed in a single bedroom
(ii) more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom
(iii) more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom, and
(iv) more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single beds or
five single beds in a family room.
Further, in respect of any hotel the license shall not allow more than one person to sleep in a single
room or more than two in a double room or more than three in triple room. However, when the age of
the anybody sleeping in any room that person is below 12 years shall not be considered as one
person for purpose of this section.
(30) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.
(31) In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a license issued, any license
contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action
to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore
the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(32) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(33) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any other officer
of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
(34) The validity of every license issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(35) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(36) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-laws
to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
any Authorized Officer.
(37) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- law No. 31, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(30 – 31)
Charges and fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(35-38)

<!-- page 112 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
112A
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall
not be exceeded 14 days.
(38) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-law No. 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(39) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(40) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(41) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of
law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)
(42) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act, of Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabha
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘Urban Development Authority “ means, the urban development authority constituted under
urban development Law No. 41 of 1978
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period” means, opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for display
or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are prepared and kept for sale
or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;
‘‘Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two
double beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 113 -->

113AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
‘‘Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with a
double bed and one single bed or three single beds ;
‘‘Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or
two single beds.
‘‘Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one
bed ;
‘‘Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed
and a mattress ;
‘‘Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one
mattress and a bed ;
Annexure -01
Compositional Requirements of milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat minimum Milk solids other
percent than milk  fact
minimum percent
1. Buffalo Row, pasteurized or
sterilized 7.0 9.0
2. cow Do. 3.5 8.5
3. Standardized Pasteurized or sterilized 3.25 8.25
4. Toned Do. 2.0 8.5
5. Flavored Do. 2.0 7.2
6. Skimmed Do. - 8.5

<!-- page 114 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
114A
 Schedule-01
Application For Business tax / License 20.. for conducting Hotel within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:——————————.
2. Place of the Business center:——————————.
(i) Ward No: ——————————.
(ii) Assessment No:——————————.
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i) Full Name:——————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
(iv) NIC No:——————————.
(v) Telephone No:——————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:——————————.
(ii) T ype of business:——————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:——————————.
(iv) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:——————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-                   Yes: No:————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No:——————————.
Date:——————————.
7. The number of:
(i) Single rooms in the lodging house:
(ii) Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
(iii) Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
(iv) Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
(v) All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …
9. Toilets :
(i) The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii) The number of toilets for female employees: … …
(iii) The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv) The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
10. Bathrooms:
(i) The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii) The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …
12. Source of water supply: … … … … … …

<!-- page 115 -->

115AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in
the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under the By Law
 ……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward :……………………                                            Assessment No :……………………
Name of Street :……………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :…………………………        Arrears of the assessment tax :………………….
………………… …. …………………………………………
Date Administrative Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch,
1. Type of business :……………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid :…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks :……………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….…………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………
………………………….   …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 116 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
116A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement :………………………. Nature :………………………….
Environmental License :………………… M.O.H report :…………………...
C.O.C :……………………………………. Excise License :…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
 ………………………………. …………………………………………
Date.  Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue
license………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date.  Secretary.
Approved/Not Approved
…………………… …………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No :………………………………..                                     Date of the
Receipt : …………………………….
License No :……………………………….                                      Date of the
License :………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
Date  :…………………..   …………………………
Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date. Secretary.
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date. Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 117 -->

117AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries
Within the area of authority of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section
126 (ix) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.
(i) Premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition whether the energy is obtained
by means of firewood, Electricity or any other way.
(ii) W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
iii)  Each room shall be cilium and cilium is in height not less than 3.0 metres from floor
level.
(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles.
(v) The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least in a
height of 3.0 meters from the ground level of the room.
(vi) Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones with both
sides of    the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls have been
completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timber shall be
applied with paints.
(vii) All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.
(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at
least 2.5 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least
1.0 meter in width.
(ix) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be renewed at least
once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate has been
obtained.
(x) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall
be taken to prevent contamination of that water.
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
Executed ( 4-25)

<!-- page 118 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
118A
(xi) Supplying water to each room of the license premises shall be made in manner by pipe
line.
(xii) In the event of the Kuchc haveli  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meter away from the constructed well.
(xiii) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13.
(xiv) When the bakery requesting a license is one using wood,
(a) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built a
height of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.
(b) A sufficient receptacle to be kept to the dispose of ash and remnants of wood
removed from the oven of the bakery.
(c) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.
(d) A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel.
(xv)  When the bakery requesting a license is using electricity-
(a) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to the bakery equipment shall be in a
safe condition and trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage and
leaks in electricity shall have been fixed.
(b) Electric cables of electric circuit fixed within the premises shall be drawn through
pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.
(6) If electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery, general fire extinguishing equipment shall
be maintained in working condition, and electrical fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in
addition.
(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No. 5 in these By-Laws to have been applied with paints shall
be so applied with paints at least once a year.
(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a week.
(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been finishing smoothly
without any gaps otherwise there shall be fully covered with stainless metal sheets.
(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to
a medical test at least once a year.
(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in prompt
maintaining condition.

<!-- page 119 -->

119AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) The licensee shall have to be supplied necessary face masks gloves and other safety materials
to the employees and to be ensure whether the employees are wearing those after having body
wash or bath when they have engage with their duty within the license premises.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a week or more than if
necessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being
put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows:–
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic  related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metals or iron or any other metals;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(15) A separate room shall be maintained exclusively used for storage of flour other ingredients used
in the bakery shall  be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of rats ,flies or any other
kind of insects.
(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 in these By-Laws a rack made
of timber on a stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack
shall have been finished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover,
while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects
remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.
(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken out and
cleaned at least twice a month.
(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for males and
females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructed at a
distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale of
products such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

<!-- page 120 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
120A
(19) All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean
nails and soap or fluid soap.
(20) It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronic
balance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under
the provisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any
customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.
(21) In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall be the
duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of
waste material or water.
(22) Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,
Sinhala and English.
(23) Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorized by
the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(24) Name list (including sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of Chairman
or Authorized Officer
(25) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a bakery within the authority of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha area,
unless having a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in
schedule 1 for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(27) Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakery
products are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of
bakery products at any time.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person shall engage himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any
licensed premise without having clean dress.
(29) Unauthorized chemicals and colorings shall not be used for the bakery products.
(30) No person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws in this part,
and shall not be keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for
the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees of the
bakery shall not be included to this.
(31) Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products. Further,
if the unground water tank is constructed for use, it should be constructed a distance of 18 meters
away from waste fit or ash fit.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(26-34)

<!-- page 121 -->

121AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(32) No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.
(33) No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided for purpose.
(34) Any licensee shall not resist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 35
(35) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed
premise.
(36) In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a license issued under the
By-Laws any license contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized
Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(37) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(38) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(39) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(40) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By- Laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(41) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these
By-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the
Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.
(42) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 35, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(43) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the
place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 fails to act as
stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(44) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(45) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(46) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabhas limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No .15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a
court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2).
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(35-36).
Charges and fees
Delegation of
Powers.
Valid period of
license or
permit.
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(40-43).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties.

<!-- page 122 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
122A
(47)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires-
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act,
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary,
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabha,
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty,
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” period from the time of sun shining until
the time of sun setting,
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law and
person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge   or Manager
of the management of this place,
‘‘Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision,
‘‘Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured
in any bakery for sale or on order placed by any person,
‘‘Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are
manufactured and it shall also include any place where such food prepared or where goods are
stored for preparation of such food.
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 123 -->

123AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Schedule 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area of
authority of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:————————.
2. Place of the Business center:————————.
(i) Ward No.:————————.
(ii) Assessment No.:————————.
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:————————.
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:
(i) Full Name:————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:————————.
(iv) NIC No.:————————.
(v) Telephone No.:————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:————————.
(ii) T ype of business:————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:————————.
(iv) Previous Business:————————.
5. If it is rented building
(i) Name of the Owner:————————.
(ii) Address:————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:  Yes:   No:————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:————————.
Date:————————.
I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 124 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
124A
For office use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                      Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :…………………………         Arrears of the assessment tax :………………….
……………………………… …………………………………………
Date  Administrative Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Department,
1. Type of business :………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid :……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 ……………………………. …………………………………………
Date   Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................
……………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................
………………………………. …………………………….
Date Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 125 -->

125AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:………………… M.O.H. report:……………………..
C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………. …………………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:…………………………......
Recommended to issue License. ……… ………………………..
 Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary.
Signed
                   ……………………. …………………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 126 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
126A
 By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, Supervise and control of annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as   By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and
control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section126 (ix)
(k) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in annexure 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous and
annoying business carrying by the Chairman or Chairman of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only
the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled:
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition,
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 meters in height,
(iii) Walls has to be made of bricks, cement or lime stone or any other permitted stone and
should be plastered and white washed,
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from floor
level,
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable,
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be at
least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter max trail,
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles,
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them,
(ix) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws,
(x) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises,
(xi) In the event of the Kuchchaveli Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-15)

<!-- page 127 -->

127AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without Mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen Meters away from the constructed well.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where white washing is needed to be
applied under By-Law No. 5 in these By-Law shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.
(8) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law No. 9
in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more
if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is
being put or removed.
(9) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows :
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron and any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(10) All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying or
effluvial.
(11) All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering and put in
to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.
(12) All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring from the
production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall be
disposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.
(13) All license holders shall be kept wall of business premise in safe mode without absorbing any
dirty and keep in good manner.
(14) All license holders shall kept baskets and other instruments clean should have wash the utilities
daily.
(15) All license holders clean the tank which using for wash or drunk leather or any other materials
without spreading any smell.
(16) No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and dangerous
business carrying within the authorized area of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, unless he or she has
poses a valid license issued by the Chairman or authorized officer on the application prepared
according to the specimen found in Annexure 01.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(16 – 18)

<!-- page 128 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
128A
(17) No any person or license holder shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the place
for sleeping and taking food inside in night or day time.
(18) Any license holder should not use any river, watercourse, canal, well or any drain, sea or any
other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall not be
polluted above mentioned water resources.
(19) In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous
and annoying business is maintained under a license issued under this By-Laws, any contravenes
arose of any section of the By-Law the Chairman or authorized officer shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee for demanding him to take necessary measures to accomplish with
prescribed conditions to reset the said premise to the approved position before a specified date.
(20) Any Person running dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying business
decided by Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha are included in orderly in Schedule Nos. (I), (II) and (III)
of this By Law, it is duty of the Chairman and authorized officer to informing such person about
issuing the license.
(21) It is a duty of the Chairman or authorized officer to inform the applicant whether it is
accepted to issue license or rejected with the reason in accordance with these by laws within 30
days of receiving an application.
(22) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business.
(23) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(24) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(25) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any authorized
officer.
(26) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No. 19, shall act as
stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received,
the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not
be exceeded 14 days.
(27) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned By-law No. 26 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in the
notice on or before the specified date.
(28) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(29) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws is an
offence.
Functions of the
Local Authority
(19-21)
Charges and  fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period Of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (25-27)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws

<!-- page 129 -->

129AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(31) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires-
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by
the provisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act;
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Kuchchaveli   Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabhas;
‘‘Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty;
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” means opportunity for take   measures to
make business or product at the specified place;
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws
and person who is responsible for management, is employed by  the person in-charge or
Manager of the management of this place;
‘‘Licensed premise” means, specific range of place for which is issued license to take all
measures under these provisions.
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 130 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
130A
FIRST SCHEDULE
Annoying Businesses
(1)    Clearing and Storing Graphite.
(2)    Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.
(3)    Tanning of Leather.
(4)    Leather for selling.
(5)    Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or eggs).
(6)    Producing of Maldives fish or storing more than 50 Kg.
(7)    Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.
(8)    Maintaining a veterinary hospital.
(9)    Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.
(10)  Taking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.
(11)  Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.
(12)  Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.
(13)  Drying tobacco.
(14)  Producing animal feed.
(15)  Producing Poonac.
(16)  Boiling meats with blood.
(17)  Producing soap
(18) Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.
(19)  Making trunk boxes.
(20)  Keeping new and old metals.
(21)  Keeping ruined metals
(22)  Making housing furniture.
(23)  Making cane products.
(24)  Maintaining carpeting industry.
(25)  Making syrup or fruit juice.
(26)  Making sweets.
(27)  Dunking coconut husks
(28)  Producing brushes. (except tooth brushes)
(29)  Producing tooth brushes
(30)  Collecting toddy.
(31)  Producing vinegar.
(32)  Cleaving timber.
(33)  Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.
(34)  Producing soda.

<!-- page 131 -->

131AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(35)  Painting fibers.
(36)  Producing leather instruments.
(37)  Tin fish, fruits and other foods.
(38)  Powdering coffee and grains.
(39)  Producing baking powder.
(40)  Making gas mantels.
(41)  Producing putty.
(42)  Making camphor.
(43)  Making candle.
(44)  Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.
(45)  Producing blue of cloth washing.
(46)  Producing sealing wax.
(47)  Producing perfumes.
(48)  Producing shocks.
(49)  Producing tires or tubes.
(50)  Refill tires.
(51)  Vulcanizing tires.
(52)  Manufacturing cement.
(53)  Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.
(54)  Manufacturing sand papers.
(55)  Manufacturing plastic products.
(56)  Kilning bricks.
(57)  Weaving clothes by machines.
(58)  Manufacturing or re storing of acids.
(59)  Manufacturing of roofing tiles.
(60)  Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.
(61)  Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.
(62)  Manufacturing garments products.
(63)  Running a poultry farm.
(64)  Manufacturing disinfectants.
(65)  Repairing and renovation of tires and tubes.
(66)  Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.
(67)  Manufacturing cigarettes and cigarettes with tobacco.

<!-- page 132 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
132A
SECOND SCHEDULE
Dangerous Businesses
(1) Quarrying metal.
(2) Making cool drinks (aerated water).
(3) Making ice.
(4) Manufacturing vegetable oils.
(5) Manufacturing coconut oils.
(6) Manufacturing or storing matches.
(7) Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.
(8) Manufacturing tea boxes.
(9) Manufacturing coir or other fibers.
(10) Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.
(11) Storing hay.
(12) Storing used garments.
(13) Manufacturing and repairing jewelleries.
(14) Sawing timber by machines.
(15) Quarrying lime stone.
(16) Running a business using machines.
(17) Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.
(18) Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.
(19) Storing used papers and newspapers.
(20) Spray Painting.
(21) Storing fire working or crackers.
(22) Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)
(23) Running a welding work shop.
(24) Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.
(25) Printers.
(26) Blasting and gunpowder stores.
(27) Displaying advertisement
THIRD SCHEDULE
Annoying and Dangerous Businesses
(1) Clearing mica.
(2) Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.
(3) dry clean or dyeing.
(4) Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.
(5) Electro planting metals.
(6) Manufacture of oil or animal oil.
(7) Kilning lime stones.
(8) Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.
(9) Processing cod-liver oil.
(10) Building boats.
(11) Recharge or repairing batteries

<!-- page 133 -->

133AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) Welding metals.
(13) Repairing motor vehicles.
(14) Servicing motor vehicles.
(15) Grinding metals with machines.
(16) Running a casting shop.
(17) Running a tin workshop.
(18) Making bodies for motor vehicles.
(19) Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.
(20) Manufacturing disinfectors.
(21) Manufacturing of mosquito coils.
(22) Manufacturing timber protects.
(23) Manufacturing gal tar.
(24) Manufacturing glass products.
(25) Making glass mirrors.
(26) Galvanize metals.
(27) Manufacturing welding lead.
(28) Manufacturing aluminum products.
(29) Manufacturing barbed wire.
(30) Manufacturing wire nails.
(31) Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.
(32) Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.
(33) Manufacturing P.I buckets.
(34) Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(35) Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(36) Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.
(37) Manufacturing machineries.
(38) Manufacturing electrical products.
(39) Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.
(40) Manufacturing storage batteries.
(41) Assembling tractors.
(42) Manufacturing radiator.
(43) Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.
(44) Manufacturing Battery.
(45) Paddy mills.
(46) Making coffin.
(47) Manufacturing and repairing telephones.
(48) Assembling and repairing electrical products.
(49) Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments
(50) Funeral service supply center (Funeral home)

<!-- page 134 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
134A
Annexure 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business,
and annoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority of
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:—————————.
2. Place of the Business Centre:—————————.
(i) Ward No.:—————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:—————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:—————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:—————————.
(i) Full Name:—————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:—————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
(iv) NIC No.:—————————.
(v) Telephone No.:—————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:—————————.
(i) Date of Beginning the Business:—————————.
(ii) Name of the manager of the meat Stall:—————————.
(iii) Previous Business:—————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:—————————.
(ii) Address:—————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:—————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.: —————————.
Date:—————————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
 Date Signature of Applicant.
4.

<!-- page 135 -->

135AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For office use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                 Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street: ………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment: …………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. ………………………………………
 Date Administrative Officer
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business : ………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid : ……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii) Remarks :………………………………………………………………………………………
  ……………………………….  …………………………………………
  Date  Revenue Inspector
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement :……………………….                             Nature :………………………….
Environmental License :…………………                           M.O.H report :……………………..
C.O.C :…………………………………….                          Excise License :…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. ………………………………………
Date Chief Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 136 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
136A
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………………….  …………………………………………
 Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….  Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License
………………………………..
Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………  …………………………………………
 Date  Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 137 -->

137AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as in relating to formulate, regularize, control and supervise of
Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the Section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section
126 (XXIII) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Center by the
Chairman or Authorized officer of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified
conditions are duly fulfilled.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.
(ii) W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
(iii) These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from floor
level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall be at
least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the place
where the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning.
(viii) Provide sufficient sitting space at least 1.5 square meter to each customer arriving at the
premises expecting service.
(ix) There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if water is
used in providing services to customers
(x) In the event of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making
By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed
(4-25)
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair
Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the
Kuchchaveli   Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 138 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
138A
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action shall
be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated and
released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing with
air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xi) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.
(xii) The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated from the
buildings used as a residence.
(xiii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical fire-
fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xiv) Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under   By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The floor of the licensed premises shall wash with disinfectants at least once a month.
(8) During the period of providing service to customers there shall be sufficient and continuous
water supply to the premises.
(9) It shall be enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and a sufficient number of
utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils.
(10) It shall be sufficient wash basins, soap or liquid soap for the use of employees when they are
providing services at the licensed premises.
(11) Sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colors (not in dark colors) shall be provided for
the use of the customers at the premises.
(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle shall be kept with a tight lid to collect cut hair
and other waste.
(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event of
electrically controlled instruments are used.
(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box shall be kept containing sufficient amount of first aid
instruments and drugs as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health.
(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner as to be
readily available to customers and employees.
(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed center —
i. having bath or body wash before providing services
ii. maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition
iii. keep their nails cut and without any dirt
iv. Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer

<!-- page 139 -->

139AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,
i. instruments used in the licensed center are sterilized after each use
ii. brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day
iii. Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use
(18) The licensee shall ensure
i. that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of each
customer are put into a receptacle having being collected by sweeping or through
electrically operated mechanism ; and
ii. that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, after use of
each customer.
(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces of
cut hair are dumped in a pit at least one meter below the ground level at the end of daily activities
or if necessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure
that precautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.
(20) In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the manner set
out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabha scavenging vehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management program of the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(21) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacle used to
collect waste material produced at the licensed center.
(22) List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop.
(23) Every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employees who are
working at the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that
register when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.
(24) Every licensee of a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keep affixed a
board with his name and the words "Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre"
legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises.
(25) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place to a medical test
at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre within the authority
of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid license for the purpose of
that, issued by the Chairman
(27) (i) Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall not
keep or causes to keep any pet.
(ii) No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item for washing
clothes.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing
Tasks not to
be carried out
(26 –34)

<!-- page 140 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
140A
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the licensed place,
or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensed place,
unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(29) The interior of a licensed premises shall not be used in the night or in the day time as a place
for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall be allowed to do so.
(30) The use of,
(i) any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or
(ii) Alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, in
respect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises.
(31) The licensee in any licensed center shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towel
that is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.
(32) Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall be pursued
in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the license issued under the provisions of the
by-laws in this part.
(33) No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon except in to a
spittoon provided for that purpose.
(34) No licensee shall use any articles banned by Sri Lankan Law or Medical Officer of Health of
Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha at licensed premises.
(35) In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center is
maintained under a license issued under the By-Laws any license contravenes any section of these
By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee
demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
(36) (i) Under the Sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, the Secretary has the authority to
charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run any Hair Dressing
Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers.
(ii)  Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the license fees for Hair Dressing
Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers shall be the duty of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabha Chairman as specified in above Sub section (i)
(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of Kuchchaveli
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(38) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
Function of the
Local Authority.
Charges and
fees.
Delegation of
power.
Valid period of
license or
permit.

<!-- page 141 -->

141AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(39) (i) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(ii) It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received license under the
provisions, to the Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman or any Authorized officer for inspection, and
shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.
(40)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 in these By- Laws, shall
act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 40 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws shall
be an offence.
(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
"Authorized officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws of
the hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center and person who is responsible for
management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise" means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"The appropriate time" means any occasion when service is being provided to the customers at
the premises.
"Apron" means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtaining
service from the licensed center.
Procedure of
inspection and
Powers(39-41).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws
Fines and
Penalties.
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 142 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
142A
SCHEDULE – 01
Application for Business Tax / License 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centers within the area of authority of Kuchchaveli  Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:——————————.
2 Place of the Business Centre:——————————.
(i)  Ward No.:——————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:——————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i)  Full Name:——————————.
(ii)  Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
(iv)  NIC No.:——————————.
(v)  Telephone No.:——————————.
(vi)  E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning the Business:——————————.
(ii) T ype of the Business:——————————.
(iii) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:-
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:——————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:——————————.
Date:———————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
Provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 143 -->

143AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For Office Use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                                           Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment: …………………………………………………………………………
Annual V alue:…………………………                             Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Sectional Head
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business :………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid :…………………………………………………………………
(iii) Under A/B/C
(iv) Remarks :………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the Report of  the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 144 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
144A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                                                     Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                                                   M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                                                 Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………….………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
 Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license …………… ………………… ……………………
………………….…  …………………………………………
Date Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………  …………………………………………
                  Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..
 Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
03-947

<!-- page 145 -->

145AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
 EASTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
By Laws
MORAWEWA  PRADESHIYA SABBA
I, Governor Anuradha Yahampath of the Eastern Provincial Council do hereby order publish the approval granted by
me under the power vested in me by section 123 sub section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 th of 1987,  read
with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act. No. 12 of 1989, and the decision taken by the
Pradeshiya Sabha with decision number 59 at the Council meeting held on 2019.06.04 as per the power vested with the
Pradeshiya Sabha by section 122 subsection (1) of  the Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15
th of 1987, the following
scheduled Five (5) By-Laws made by the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested it in section 126 of sub
section vii (f) and (xxx), ix (h),  ix (h) and xv, ix (k),  xxiii of the Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987, shall be
effective within the Pradeshiya Sabba area of Morawewa from the date of publish in this notification in the
Government Gazette.
       A
NURADHA YAHAMPATH,
      Hon. Governor,
      Eastern Provincial Council.
Governor Secretariat,
Inner Habour Road,
Trincomalee.
31st January2020.
S
CHEDULE
1. By- Laws relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the Advertisement within the Local authority area.
2. By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the Local authority area.
3. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries within the Local authority area.
4. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize Supervise and  control of annoying business and dangerous business
within the Local authority area.
5. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centres within the Local authority area.

<!-- page 146 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
146A
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
supervise advertisement displaying within the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensure
protection, comfort and Convenience of the People residing within the limits of the Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabha
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section 126 (vii) (f)
and (xxx) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4)  (i) Anybody who expects to obtain a license to display any advertisement within the  limits
of Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha shall forward an application substantially prepared in
accordance with  the specimen given in  Schedule-01 to the Chairman or  Authorized
Officer  at least four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to
be displayed.
(ii) The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of
Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws are duly
fulfilled.
(5) (i) Every application forwarded to obtain a license shall contain a specimen of the
advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 milli metres x 297 milli meters
and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisement is expected to
be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297 mm. Moreover, the
exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have been indicated therein.
(ii) When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a place owned
by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution written evidence
ensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement at the Particular
Place shall have been submitted.
(6) It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the license issued in
respect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each
advertisement or advertisements while such display is done.
(7) It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all the other
goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,
within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the
application.
(8)      (i) Advertisement relating to any entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose
of charity, an advertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon
which such advertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or
Provincial Council or Local Authority and an advertisement relating to a religious, political
or public meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business, the
charges of advertisement may be exempted and license in that behalf  shall be obtained
from the Chairman or  Authorized Officer .Further Provided that in any advertisement and
sign is illuminated advertisement and sky sign permits shall be obtained by paying fees as
specified in these By-Laws.
By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the
Advertisement within the area of authority of the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha
Name of
By-Laws.
Objective.
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-12)

<!-- page 147 -->

147AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed
together with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when an
advertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any household,
such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these By-
laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of the administration of the
premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who shall obtain the license
in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.
(iii) The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any business premise
or any factory within the area of authority of the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha , to a
single notice depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise being
maintained at the said place of business or the nature of the products being produced at
the factory, for a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase
"on lease" or "for sale" or "available for rent" displayed on any property intended to be
given in lease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditions specified in these
By-Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at any time when more than
one such advertisement is displayed the provisions of these By-Laws shall apply in
respect of all such additional advertisements.
(9)  The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall
i. maintain such hoarding in a proper condition and security, and
ii. Exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legible
characters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.
(10)  Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the persons who
use the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage is
caused to the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the
damages to that person or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized
Officer of the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha shall be exempted of payment of such damages.
(11) Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by the Engineer.
(12)  (i) The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harm caused
or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing used in
this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due to the menacing
or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
(ii) The Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be responsible in any way for removing,
damaging or disfiguring of an advertisement obtained under the license for exhibiting.
(13) (i) Unless any person has a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the
specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by the Chairman or
Authorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in any
form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place in the area of authority of
the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Even after obtaining a valid license for display of advertisements nobody shall display or
let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specifically stated
in the relevant license, to be seen at any public place.
(14) The period of validity of the license already issued to any other licensee in respect of the place
for which the license is currently requested shall have been completed valid time period. Further
there shall be sufficient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an
obstacle to issue a license to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the
viewing of the advertisement being displayed under a license previously issued and still in force.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(13-21)

<!-- page 148 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
148A
(15) (i) The advertisement for which a display license is sought shall not contain any scenes or
words   which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harming
any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.
(ii) It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law of the
country.
(16)  Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accident to
a person walking near the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover,
fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving
a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be done.
(17) No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any religious
place or park or any bridge or street or  electrical post  or any tree or branch close to them or  any
public building connected with them.
(18) An advertisement to be displayed in such manner over or across any pavement carriage way of
any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed  or attached to an overhead bridge
constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erected in a
manner approved by the  engineer.
(19) No person shall cause
(i). Any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form other than
that approved by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(ii). In addition to the approval given by the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha, any vehicle
bearing any illuminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent  of police, shall
be driven on any street or road .
(20) Any license issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered or
constructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression.
(21) (i) Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine which areas are allowed to display
advertisements within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) When conditions necessary for the issue of a license under the By-laws in this part have
been fulfilled in respect of any application, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall inform
the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue
the license to the applicant after paying the fees for the license in the manner set out in
section 25(i) and fees for the security deposit set out in section 22(i) of By-Law, after
receipt of the above notice.
(iii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish a notification in the
Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement could be displayed or
exhibited .Such notification shall take effect from the date of its publication, or from
whatsoever date specified therein.
(iv) The Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha shall have power to construct or maintain an
advertisement board  Under these By-Laws as determined by Pradeshiya Sabha in any
land belongs to any person and given to the Pradeshiya Sabha on agreement or in any
land belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to recover the fees already fixed
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from the licensee to display any advertisement on the board
constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha under above sub section (ii).
(vi) Publishing of notice in  Government Gazette regarding the fees for advertisement license
is duty of Chairman as specified in above paragraph (i) in these By Law No.25
Functions of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(21 – 24)

<!-- page 149 -->

149AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(22) (i) When a decision has been made to issue a license in respect of any application forwarded
for the purpose of displaying an advertisement, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall
not issue the license for the said application until the applicant has deposited security
money in the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha at the rates to be determined by it from time
to time.
(ii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazette about
the decision taken by the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of the rate of the
security deposit to be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha prior to issuing a license to
display any advertisement.
(23) (i) After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-Law No. 7 ,
the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already deposited at the
Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha before the issuing of the relevant license on a written
request made to the Chairman or  Authored Officer.
(ii) On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be the duty
of Chairman or  Authorized Officer to ensure,
(a) the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-laws No.7
(b) And that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabha no damage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said
advertisement or due to any other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before
releasing the said deposit money to the said licensee.
(iii) Unless the Chairman or  Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the manner set
out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the By laws, No.
7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha, the
said deposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any licensee has
avoided acting in the manner stated in By-laws No. 7 or when any damage has been
caused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, suitable action shall be taken to deduct
from the deposit money expenditure that the Pradeshiya Sabha would have to bear to
effect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both, and only the
balance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.
(iv) When the money leviable by the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha in taking action in the
manner stated in paragraph (c) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee
shall pay the extra money payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request made by the
licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days to the licensee for
what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.
(24) Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a license issued by the
Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha and to take into the possession of the Pradeshiya Sabha or remove in
a manner decided by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(25) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987,  the Secretary has
the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to
display any advertisement, further
(ii) (a) Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha under
para 21(v) to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the place
belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha under these By-Laws.
Or
Charges and fees

<!-- page 150 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
150A
(b) Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Morawewa  Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed where land
is belonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .
(iii) Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law 22
(iv) Person who has applied for a temporary license to display any advertisement shall pay
license fee according to the decision made by the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha from time
to time.
(v) When it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after the expiry
of the period of validity of the license currently issued for the display of any
advertisement a new license shall have been obtained on displaying the notice for such
succeeding year.
However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha as
charges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of license to be issued for the
display of advertisements, the same license fees determined earlier shall be recovered for the new
license to be issued for the display of the said advertisement.
(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other officer
of Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha
(27) (i) V alidity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is
cancelled earlier
(ii) T emporary license shall be valid for days for which  license has been issued unless its
validity is cancelled earlier
(28) (i) When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing of
any advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or risk to
anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an order to bring it
back to proper conditions within two weeks.
(ii) It shall be lawful to cancel the issued license for such advertisement and remove the
advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer, when anybody
in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting in the manner provided
by the provisions of the notification.
(iii) When any license has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) the security
deposit, deposited at the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying that
advertisement shall acquire to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and nobody else shall
have the right to claim the deposit money.
(iv) It shall be lawful Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue temporary license for less than
fourteen days as required, However all conditions are applicable to issue temporary
license.
(29) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by this
officer.
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism

<!-- page 151 -->

151AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(31) When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any license issued having invited the attention in
respect of such violations.
(32) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Morawewa  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of  Morawewa
Pradeshiya   Sabha
"Authorized Officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"The power to inspect within the specified period" means period from the time of sun shining
until the time of sun setting.
"Engineer" means Engineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by the
Chairman to carry out particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws
a person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager
of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise means" place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"Superintendent of police" means, an officer in police station given authority for the specified
purpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.
"Cut-out" means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of wood or some other
material ;
"Display board" means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging an
advertisement displayed for the information and attention of the public ;
"Advertisement" means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or
notice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustrations
used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or any vehicle or
a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of the public and put in
place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;
Violation of By
Laws (30-31)
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 152 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
152A
MORAWEWA PRADESHIYA SABHA
Application for the Advertisement
1. Full Name:—————————.
2. Address:—————————.
3. N.I.C.No.:—————————.
4. Mobile No.:—————————.
5. E-Mail Address:—————————.
6. Advertisement model annexed:—————————.
7. Location map annexed:—————————.
8. Type of Advertisement: -    One side/ Double sides/ Lighted:—————————.
9. Duration: - From:—————.       To:—————.
10. Size of Advertisement: - Length —————.      Width:—————. Height:—————.
I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be converted to municipal
property without any notice.
…………………. ……………………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer
Chief Revenue Inspector.
Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable
………………… …………………………………
Date  Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 153 -->

153AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Secretary
 Fitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended
…………………… ……… ……………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary,
Size of Advertisement:     Length ................   Wide ................... Area (square meter) ................
              Detail Private Land RDD Road RDA Road LAA Land LAA Road
Agreement is made Yes/No
Land Rent (Rs200*sq)
Advertisement Fees (Rs100*sq)
Total Fees
VAT
NBT
Total Amount
……………………. ………………………………………
Date Management Assistant
Above advertisement is approved / not approved
……………………  ……………………………
Date Secretary

<!-- page 154 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
154A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No. :………………………………..        Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No. :……………………………….         Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
 ………………………………..
Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.
………………… ……………………………………..
Date  Field officer/ Technical officer.
 (Planning section)

<!-- page 155 -->

155AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the
area of authority of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor hotels within the area of authority of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126 (ix) (h)
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in Schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the
regulations noticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition.
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
(iii) Walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved stones
and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other rooms
which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal sheets and
painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 meters from floor
level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them.
(ix) The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other
animals getting into them.
(x) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.
(xi) Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment for
making By-Law
Tasks to be
executed
(4-19)

<!-- page 156 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
156A
a) When the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.
Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.
b) When the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shall be
painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.
(xii) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to be
obtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate
has been obtained.
(xiii) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall be
taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xiv) A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.
(xv) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories
shall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a
manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xvi) The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone or
any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While the
walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The floor
shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xvii) Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of this By
-Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well.
(xviii) Water supply facilities to each room at licensed premises shall be made in safe manner by
pipe line.
(xix) Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay and
polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed .
(xx) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises.
(xxi) In the event of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xxii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xxiii)  At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks are
prepared shall have been covered with stainless metal sheets or tiles or with any
impermeable material.
(xxiv)  All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers and
employees, shall be at least 04 square meters for one person (2 m length X 2m width).

<!-- page 157 -->

157AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Further, an Almira or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keep towel
or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attached
bathrooms shall be there.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying waste
water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.
(8) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedsheets, pillow covers,
blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before to be
provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely
opened at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However
there shall be at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with
air condition in operation.
(9) Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address, and
identity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to
allow it, to be examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.
(10) It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean every room,
stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.
(11) Lavatories and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with
disinfectants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating dour. However, it
may be considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which
customers are staying once a day.
(12) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items or
implements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to be
consumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after
using.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day
if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is
being put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste.

<!-- page 158 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
158A
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(15) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects and it
is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept there
and food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.
(16) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or any
other instruments shall be used to serve food.
(17) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be provided
with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee
to ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety
materials when they are on duty.
(18) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush and
soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(19) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(20) No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she
has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom
(22) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply with the
minimum space specified in para (xxiv) of By Law 5.
(23) No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.
(24) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and there of
the land or any where else in the premises other than the place specified
(25) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed.
(ii) No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(26) (i) Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve in any
unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 20 – 29)

<!-- page 159 -->

159AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or
making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or
residence living closely
(27) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law 30
(28) (i) No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products not contained
the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown below accordance with the
food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
dated 01.08.1991 under the Food Act, No. 26 of 1980.
(ii) Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit for
human consumption.
(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of
(i) more than one bed in a single bedroom
(ii) more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom
(iii) more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom, and
(iv) more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single beds or
five single beds in a family room.
Further, in respect of any hotel the license shall not allow more than one person to sleep in a single
room or more than two in a double room or more than three in triple room. However, when the age of
the anybody sleeping in any room that person is below 12 years shall not be considered as one
person for purpose of this section.
(30) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.
(31) In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a license issued, any license
contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action
to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore
the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(32) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(33) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any other officer
of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha
(34) The validity of every license issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(35) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(36) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-laws
to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
any Authorized Officer.
(37) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- law No. 31, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(30 – 31)
Charges and fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(35-38)

<!-- page 160 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
160A
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall
not be exceeded 14 days.
(38) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-law No. 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(39) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(40) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(41) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Morawewa Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of
law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)
(42) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act, of Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabha
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘Urban Development Authority “ means, the urban development authority constituted under
urban development Law No. 41 of 1978
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period” means, opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for display
or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are prepared and kept for sale
or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;
‘‘Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two
double beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 161 -->

161AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
‘‘Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with a
double bed and one single bed or three single beds ;
‘‘Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or
two single beds.
‘‘Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one
bed ;
‘‘Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed
and a mattress ;
‘‘Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one
mattress and a bed ;
Annexure -01
Compositional Requirements of milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat minimum Milk solids other
percent than milk  fact
minimum percent
1. Buffalo Row, pasteurized or
sterilized 7.0 9.0
2. cow Do. 3.5 8.5
3. Standardized Pasteurized or sterilized 3.25 8.25
4. Toned Do. 2.0 8.5
5. Flavored Do. 2.0 7.2
6. Skimmed Do. - 8.5

<!-- page 162 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
162A
 Schedule-01
Application For Business tax / License 20.. for conducting Hotel within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:——————————.
2. Place of the Business center:——————————.
(i) Ward No : ——————————.
(ii) Assessment No.:——————————.
(iii) Name of the Road/Street :——————————.
(iv) GN Division No. & Name :——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i) Full Name :——————————.
(ii) Per manent Address :——————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name :——————————.
(iv) NIC No :——————————.
(v) Telephone No :——————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:——————————.
(ii) T ype of business:——————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:——————————.
(iv) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:——————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-                   Yes: No:————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No :——————————.
Date:——————————.
7. The number of:
(i) Single rooms in the lodging house:
(ii) Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
(iii) Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
(iv) Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
(v) All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …
9. Toilets :
(i) The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii) The number of toilets for female employees: … …
(iii) The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv) The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
10. Bathrooms:
(i) The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii) The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …
12. Source of water supply: … … … … … …

<!-- page 163 -->

163AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in
the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
 ……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward……………………                                            Assessment No. ……………………
Name of Street……………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value…………………………        Arrears of the assessment tax………………….
………………… …. …………………………………………
Date Administrative Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Branch,
1. Type of business……………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks……………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….…………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………
………………………….   …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 164 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
164A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement………………………. Nature………………………….
Environmental License………………… M.O.H report…………………...
C.O.C……………………………………. Excise License…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
 ………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue
license………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
…………………… …………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No. :………………………………..                                     Date of the
Receipt :…………………………….
License No. :……………………………….                                      Date of the
License :………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
Date  …………………..   …………………………
Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date. Secretary.
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date. Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 165 -->

165AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries
Within the area of authority of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section
126 (ix) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.
(i) Premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition whether the energy is obtained
by means of firewood, Electricity or any other way.
(ii) W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(iii)  Each room shall be cilium and cilium is in height not less than 3.0 metres from floor
level.
(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles.
(v) The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least in a
height of 3.0 meters from the ground level of the room.
(vi) Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones with both
sides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls have been
completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timber shall be
applied with paints.
(vii) All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.
(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at
least 2.5 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least
1.0 meter in width.
(ix) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be renewed at least
once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate has been
obtained.
(x) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall
be taken to prevent contamination of that water.
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
Executed (4-25)

<!-- page 166 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
166A
(xi) Supplying water to each room of the license premises shall be made in manner by pipe
line.
(xii) In the event of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meter away from the constructed well.
(xiii) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.
(xiv) When the bakery requesting a license is one using wood,
(a) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built a
height of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.
(b) A sufficient receptacle to be kept to the dispose of ash and remnants of wood
removed from the oven of the bakery.
(c) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.
(d) A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel.
(xv)  When the bakery requesting a license is using electricity-
(a) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to the bakery equipment shall be in a
safe condition and trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage and
leaks in electricity shall have been fixed.
(b) Electric cables of electric circuit fixed within the premises shall be drawn through
pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.
(6) If electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery, general fire extinguishing equipment shall
be maintained in working condition, and electrical fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in
addition.
(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No. 5 in these By-Laws to have been applied with paints shall
be so applied with paints at least once a year.
(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a week.
(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been finishing smoothly
without any gaps otherwise there shall be fully covered with stainless metal sheets.
(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to
a medical test at least once a year.
(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in prompt
maintaining condition.

<!-- page 167 -->

167AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) The licensee shall have to be supplied necessary face masks gloves and other safety materials
to the employees and to be ensure whether the employees are wearing those after having body
wash or bath when they have engage with their duty within the license premises.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a week or more than if
necessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being
put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows:–
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic  related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metals or iron or any other metals;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(15) A separate room shall be maintained exclusively used for storage of flour other ingredients used
in the bakery shall  be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of rats ,flies or any other
kind of insects.
(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 in these By-Laws a rack made
of timber on a stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack
shall have been finished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover,
while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects
remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.
(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken out and
cleaned at least twice a month.
(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for males and
females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructed at a
distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale of
products such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

<!-- page 168 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
168A
(19) All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean
nails and soap or fluid soap.
(20) It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronic
balance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under
the provisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any
customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.
(21) In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall be the
duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of
waste material or water.
(22) Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,
Sinhala and English.
(23) Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorized by
the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(24) Name list (including sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of Chairman
or Authorized Officer.
(25) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a bakery within the authority of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha area,
unless having a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in
schedule 1 for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(27) Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakery
products are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of
bakery products at any time.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person shall engage himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any
licensed premise without having clean dress.
(29) Unauthorized chemicals and colorings shall not be used for the bakery products.
(30) No person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws in this part,
and shall not be keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for
the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees of the
bakery shall not be included to this.
(31) Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products. Further,
if the unground water tank is constructed for use, it should be constructed a distance of 18 meters
away from waste fit or ash fit.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(26-34)

<!-- page 169 -->

169AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(32) No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.
(33) No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided for purpose.
(34) Any licensee shall not resist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 35
(35) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed
premise.
(36) In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a license issued under the
By-Laws any license contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized
Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(37) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(38) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(39)The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(40) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By- Laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(41) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-
Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the
Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.
(42) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 35, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(43) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the
place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 fails to act as
stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(44) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(45) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(46) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Morawewa Pradeshiya
Sabhas limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No .15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a
court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2).
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(35-36).
Charges and fees
Delegation of
Powers.
Valid period of
license or
permit.
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(40-43).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties.

<!-- page 170 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
170A
(47)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabha.
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” period from the time of sun shining until
the time of sun setting.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law and
person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge   or Manager
of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured
in any bakery for sale or on order placed by any person.
‘‘Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are
manufactured and it shall also include any place where such food prepared or where goods are
stored for preparation of such food.
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 171 -->

171AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Schedule 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area of
authority of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business centre:-
2. Place of the Business centre:-
(i) Ward No.:-
(ii) Assessment No.:-
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i) Full Name:-
(ii) Permanent Address:-
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv) NIC No.:————————.
(v) Telephone No:————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:————————.
(ii) T ype of business:————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:————————.
(iv) Previous Business:————————.
5. If it is rented building
(i) Name of the Owner:————————.
(ii) Address:————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-Yes: No:————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:————————.
Date:————————.
I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 172 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
172A
For office use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                      Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street  :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner  :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment  :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :…………………………         Arrears of the assessment tax :………………….
……………………………… …………………………………………
Date  Administrative Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Department,
1. Type of business  :………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid  :……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks  :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 ……………………………. …………………………………………
Date   Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
……………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………. …………………………….
Date Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 173 -->

173AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………. …………………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No. :……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No. :………………………………. Date of the License:…………………………......
Recommended to issue License. ……… ………………………..
 Sectional Head(Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary.
Signed
                   ……………………. …………………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 174 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
174A
 By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, Supervise and control of annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as   By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and
control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section
126 (ix) (k) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in annexure 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous and
annoying business carrying by the Chairman or Chairman of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha, if only
the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled:
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 meters in height.
(iii) Walls has to be made of bricks, cement or lime stone or any other permitted stone and
should be plastered and white washed.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres from
floor level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1 meter
max trail
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them.
(ix) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws.
(x) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of wastewater
disposed from any section of the premises;
(xi) In the event of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-15)

<!-- page 175 -->

175AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without Mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen Meters away from the constructed
well.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where white washing is needed to be
applied under By-Law No. 5 in these By-Law shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.
(8) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo. 9
in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more if
necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being
put or removed.
(9) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron and any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(10) All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying
oreffluvial.
(11) All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering and put in
to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.
(12) All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring from the
production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall be
disposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.
(13) All license holders shall be kept wall of business premise in safe mode without absorbing any
dirty and keep in good manner.
(14) All license holders shall kept baskets and other instruments clean should have wash the utilities
daily.
(15) All license holders clean the tank which using for wash or drunk leather or any other materials
without spreading any smell.
(16) No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and dangerous
business carrying within the authorized area of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha, unless he or she has
poses a valid license issued by the chairman or authorized officer on the application prepared
according to the specimen found in annexure 01.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(16 – 18)

<!-- page 176 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
176A
(17) No any person or licensee holder shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the place
for sleeping and taking food inside in night or day time.
(18) Any license holder should not use any river, watercourse, canal, well or any drain, sea orany
other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall not be
polluted above mentioned water resources.
(19) In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous
and annoying business is maintained under a license issued under this By-Laws, any contravenes
arose of any section of the By-Law the chairman or authorized officer shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee for demanding him to take necessary measures to accomplish with
prescribed conditions to reset the said premise to the approved position before a specified date.
(20) Any Person running dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying business
decided by Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha are included in orderly in schedule Nos. (I), (II), and (III)
of this By Law, it is duty of the Chairman and authorized officer to informing such person about
issuing the license.
(21) It is a duty of the Chairman or authorized officer to inform the applicant whether it is
accepted to issue license or rejected with the reason in accordance with these by laws within 30
days of receiving an application.
(22) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business.
(23) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(24) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(25) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any authorized
officer.
(26) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No. 19, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not be exceeded
14 days.
(27) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned By-law No. 26 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in the
notice on or before the specified date.
(28) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized
Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these officers.
(29) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws is an
offence.
Functions of the
Local Authority
(19-21)
Charges and  fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period Of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (25-27)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws

<!-- page 177 -->

177AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Morawewa Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(31) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by the
provisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act;
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Morawewa  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabhas;
‘‘Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty;
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” means opportunity for take   measures to
make business or product at the specified place;
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws
and person who is responsible for management, is employed by  the person in-charge or
Manager of the management of this place;”
‘‘Licensed premise” means, specific range of place for which is issued license to take all
measures under these provisions.
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 178 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
178A
FIRST SCHEDULE
Annoying Businesses
(1) Clearing and Storing Graphite.
(2) Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.
(3) Tanning of Leather.
(4) Leather for selling.
(5) Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or egg).
(6) Producing of Maldives fish or storing more than 50 Kg.
(7) Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.
(8) Maintaining a veterinary hospital.
(9) Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.
(10) T aking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.
(11) Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.
(12) Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.
(13)  Drying tobacco.
(14)  Producing animal feed.
(15)  Producing Poonac.
(16)  Boiling meats with blood.
(17)  Producing soap
(18) Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.
(19)  Making trunk boxes.
(20)  Keeping new and old metals.
(21)  Keeping ruined metals
(22)  Making housing furniture.
(23)  Making cane products.
(24)  Maintaining carpeting industry.
(25)  Making syrup or fruit juice.
(26)  Making sweets.
(27)  Dunking coconut husks
(28)  Producing brushes. (except tooth brushes)
(29)  Producing tooth brushes
(30)  Collecting toddy.
(31)  Producing vinegar.
(32)  Cleaving timber.
(33)  Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.
(34)  Producing soda.

<!-- page 179 -->

179AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(35)  Painting fibers.
(36)  Producing leather instruments.
(37)  Tin fish, fruits and other foods.
(38)  Powdering coffee and grains.
(39)  Producing baking powder.
(40)  Making gas mantels.
(41)  Producing putty.
(42)  Making camphor.
(43)  Making candle.
(44)  Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.
(45)  Producing blue of cloth washing.
(46)  Producing sealing wax.
(47)  Producing perfumes.
(48)  Producing shocks.
(49)  Producing tires or tubes.
(50)  Refill tires.
(51)  Vulcanizing tires.
(52)  Manufacturing cement.
(53)  Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.
(54)  Manufacturing sand papers.
(55)  Manufacturing plastic products.
(56)  Kilning bricks.
(57)  Weaving clothes by machines.
(58)  Manufacturing or re storing of acids.
(59)  Manufacturing of roofing tiles.
(60)  Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.
(61)  Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.
(62)  Manufacturing garments products.
(63)  Running a poultry farm.
(64)  Manufacturing disinfectants.
(65)  Repairing and renovation of tires and tubes.
(66)  Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.
(67)  Manufacturing cigarettes and cigarettes with tobacco.

<!-- page 180 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
180A
SECOND SCHEDULE
Dangerous Businesses
(1) Quarrying metal.
(2) Making cool drinks (aerated water).
(3) Making ice.
(4) Manufacturing vegetable oils.
(5) Manufacturing coconut oils.
(6) Manufacturing or storing matches.
(7) Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.
(8) Manufacturing tea boxes.
(9) Manufacturing coir or other fibers.
(10) Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.
(11) Storing hay.
(12) Storing used garments.
(13) Manufacturing and repairing jewelleries.
(14) Sawing timber by machines.
(15) Quarrying lime stone.
(16) Running a business using machines.
(17) Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.
(18) Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.
(19) Storing used papers and newspapers.
(20) Spray Painting.
(21) Storing fire working or crackers.
(22) Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)
(23) Running a welding work shop.
(24) Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.
(25) Printers.
(26) Blasting and gunpowder stores.
(27) Displaying advertisement
THIRD SCHEDULE
Annoying and Dangerous Businesses
(1) Clearing mica.
(2) Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.
(3) dry clean or dyeing.
(4) Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.
(5) Electro planting metals.
(6) Manufacture of oil or animal oil.
(7) Kilning lime stones.
(8) Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.
(9) Processing cod-liver oil.
(10) Building boats.
(11) Recharge or repairing batteries

<!-- page 181 -->

181AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) Welding metals.
(13) Repairing motor vehicles.
(14) Servicing motor vehicles.
(15) Grinding metals with machines.
(16) Running a casting shop.
(17) Running a tin workshop.
(18) Making bodies for motor vehicles.
(19) Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.
(20) Manufacturing disinfectors.
(21) Manufacturing of mosquito coils.
(22) Manufacturing timber protects.
(23) Manufacturing gal tar.
(24) Manufacturing glass products.
(25) Making glass mirrors.
(26) Galvanize metals.
(27) Manufacturing welding lead.
(28) Manufacturing aluminum products.
(29) Manufacturing barbed wire.
(30) Manufacturing wire nails.
(31) Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.
(32) Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.
(33) Manufacturing P.I buckets.
(34) Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(35) Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(36) Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.
(37) Manufacturing machineries.
(38) Manufacturing electrical products.
(39) Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.
(40) Manufacturing storage batteries.
(41) Assembling tractors.
(42) Manufacturing radiator.
(43) Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.
(44) Manufacturing Battery.
(45) Paddy mills.
(46) Making coffin.
(47) Manufacturing and repairing telephones.
(48) Assembling and repairing electrical products.
(49) Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments
(50) Funeral service supply center (Funeral home)

<!-- page 182 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
182A
Annexure 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business,
and annoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:—————————.
2. Place of the Business Centre:—————————.
(i) Ward No.:—————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:—————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:—————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:—————————.
(i) Full Name:—————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:—————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
(iv) NIC No.:—————————.
(v) Telephone No.:—————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:—————————.
(i) Date of Beginning the Business:—————————.
(ii) Name of the manager of the meat Stall:—————————.
(iii) Previous Business:—————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:—————————.
(ii) Address:—————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:—————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.: —————————.
Date:—————————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
 Date Signature of Applicant.
4.

<!-- page 183 -->

183AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For Office Use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward:…………………………                                 Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. ………………………………………,
 Date Administrative Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business :………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid :……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii) Remarks :………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………,
Date Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………,
 Date Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. ………………………………………….,
       Date Medical Officer of Health.
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement :……………………….                             Nature :………………………….
Environmental License :…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C :…………………………………….                            Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. ………………………………..
Date Chief Revenue Inspector.

<!-- page 184 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
184A
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………………….  …………………………………………
 Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….  Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License
………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………  …………………………………………
 Date  Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 185 -->

185AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as in relating to formulate, regularize, control and supervise of
Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the
Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the Section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section
126 (XXIII) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Center by the
Chairman or Authorized officer of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified
conditions are duly fulfilled.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.
(ii) W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height.
(iii) These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from floor
level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the place
where the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning.
(viii) Provide sufficient sitting space at least 1.5 square meter to each customer arriving at the
premises expecting service.
(ix) There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if water is
used in providing services to customers.
( x ) In the event of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making
By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed
(4-25)
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair
Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the
Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 186 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
186A
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xi) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.
(xii) The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated from the
buildings used as a residence.
(xiii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical fire-
fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xiv) Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under   By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The floor of the licensed premises shall wash with disinfectants at least once a month.
(8) During the period of providing service to customers there shall be sufficient and continuous
water supply to the premises.
(9) It shall be enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and a sufficient number of
utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils.
(10) It shall be sufficient wash basins, soap or liquid soap for the use of employees when they are
providing services at the licensed premises.
(11) Sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colors (not in dark colors) shall be provided for
the use of the customers at the premises.
(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle shall be kept with a tight lid to collect cut hair
and other waste.
(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event of
electrically controlled instruments are used.
(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box shall be kept containing sufficient amount of first aid
instruments and drugs as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health.
(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner as to be
readily available to customers and employees.
(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed center —
i. Having bath or body wash before providing services
ii. maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition
iii. keep their nails cut and without any dirt
iv. Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer

<!-- page 187 -->

187AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,
i. instruments used in the licensed center are sterilized after each use,
ii. brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day,
iii. Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use.
(18) The licensee shall ensure
i. that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of each
customer are put into a receptacle having being collected by sweeping or through
electrically operated mechanism ; and
ii. that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, after use of
each customer.
(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces of cut
hair are dumped in a pit at least one meter below the ground level at the end of daily activities or if
necessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure that
precautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.
(20) In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the manner set
out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the Morawewa Pradeshiya
Sabha scavenging vehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management program of the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(21) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacle used to
collect waste material produced at the licensed center.
(22) List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop.
(23) Every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employees who are
working at the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that
register when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.
(24) Every licensee of a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keep affixed a
board with his name and the words "Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre"
legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises.
(25) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place to a medical test
at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre within the authority
of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid license for the purpose of
that, issued by the Chairman.
(27) (i) Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall not
keep or causes to keep any pet.
(ii) No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item for washing
clothes.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing
Tasks not to
be carried out
(26 –34)

<!-- page 188 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
188A
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the licensed place,
or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensed place,
unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(29) The interior of a licensed premises shall not be used in the night or in the day time as a place
for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall be allowed to do so.
(30) The use of,
(i) any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or
(ii) Alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, in
respect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises.
(31) The licensee in any licensed center shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towel
that is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.
(32) Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall be pursued
in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the license issued under the provisions of the
by-laws in this part.
(33) No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon except in to a
spittoon provided for that purpose.
(34) No licensee shall use any articles banned by Sri Lankan Law or Medical Officer of Health of
Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha at licensed premises.
(35) In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center is
maintained under a license issued under the By-Laws any license contravenes any section of these
By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee
demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
(36) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, the Secretary has the authority to
charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run any Hair Dressing
Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers.
(ii)  Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the license fees for Hair Dressing
Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers shall be the duty of Morawewa Pradeshiya
Sabha Chairman as specified in above sub section (i)
(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of Morawewa
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(38) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
Function of the
Local Authority.
Charges and
fees.
Delegation of
power.
Valid period of
license or
permit.

<!-- page 189 -->

189AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(39) (i) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(ii) It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received license under the
provisions, to the Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman or any Authorized officer for inspection, and
shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.
(40)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 in these By- Laws, shall
act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 40 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws shall
be an offence.
(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Morawewa Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
"Authorized officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws of
the hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center and person who is responsible for
management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise" means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"The appropriate time" means any occasion when service is being provided to the customers at
the premises.
"Apron" means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtaining
service from the licensed center.
Procedure of
inspection and
Powers(39-41).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws
Fines and
Penalties.
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 190 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
190A
SCHEDULE – 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centers within the area of authority of Morawewa Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:——————————.
2 Place of the Business Centre:——————————.
(i)  Ward No.:——————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:——————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i)  Full Name:——————————.
(ii)  Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii)  GN Division No & Name:——————————.
(iv)  NIC No.:——————————.
(v)  Telephone No.:——————————.
(vi)  E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning the Business:——————————.
(ii) T ype of the Business:——————————.
(iii) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:-
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:——————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:——————————.
Date:———————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
Provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 191 -->

191AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For Office Use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                                           Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual V alue:…………………………                             Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Sectional Head
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business :………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid :…………………………………………………………………
(iii) Under A/B/C
(iv) Remarks :………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the Report of  the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 192 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
192A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                                                     Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                                                   M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                                                 Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………….………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
 Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license …………… ………………… ……………………
………………….…  …………………………………………
Date Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………  …………………………………………
                  Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..
 Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
03- 948

<!-- page 193 -->

193AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
 Eastern Province Provincial Council
By Laws
PADA VISIRIPURA  PRADESHIY A SABHA
I, Governor Anuradha Yahampath of the Eastern Provincial Council do hereby order publish the approval granted by
me under the power vested in me by section 123 sub section (1) of the Pradeshiya Shaba Act, No. 15 th of 1987,  read
with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, and the decision taken by the
Pradeshiya Sabha with decision number 30 at the Council meeting held on 2019.05.28  as per the power vested with
the Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 122 Subsection (1) of  the Predeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15
th of 1987, the following
scheduled Five (5) By-Laws made by the Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Shaba under the power vested it in Section 126 of
sub section vii (f) and (xxx), ix (h),  ix (h) and xv, ix (k),  xxiii of the Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987, shall be
effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha  area of Padavisiripura from the date of publish in this notification in the
Government Gazette.
       A
NURADHA YAHAMPATH,
      Hon. Governor,
      Eastern Provincial Council.
Governor Secretariat,
Inner Habour Road,
Trincomalee.
31st January, 2020.
S
CHEDULE
1. By- Laws relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the Advertisement within the Local authority area.
2. By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the Local authority area.
3. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries within the Local authority area.
4. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize Supervise and  control of annoying business and dangerous business
within the Local authority area.
5. By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centres within the Local authority area.

<!-- page 194 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
194A
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
supervise advertisement displaying within the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensure
protection, comfort and Convenience of the People residing within the limits of the Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section 126 (vii) (f)
and (xxx) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4)  (i) Anybody who expects to obtain a license to display any advertisement within the  limits
of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha shall forward an application substantially prepared in
accordance with  the specimen given in  Schedule-01 to the Chairman or  Authorized
Officer  at least four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to
be displayed.
(ii) The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws are
duly fulfilled.
(5) (i) Every application forwarded to obtain a license shall contain a specimen of the
advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 milli metres x 297 milli meters
and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisement is expected to
be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297 mm. Moreover, the
exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have been indicated therein.
(ii) When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a place owned
by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution written evidence
ensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement at the Particular
Place shall have been submitted.
(6) It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the license issued in
respect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each
advertisement or advertisements while such display is done.
(7) It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all the other
goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,
within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the
application.
(8)      (i) Advertisement relating to any entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose
of charity, an advertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon
which such advertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or
Provincial Council or Local Authority and an advertisement relating to a religious, political
or public meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business, the
charges of advertisement may be exempted and license in that behalf  shall be obtained
from the Chairman or  Authorized Officer .Further Provided that in any advertisement and
sign is illuminated advertisement and sky sign permits shall be obtained by paying fees as
specified in these By-Laws.
By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control the
Advertisement within the area of authority of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha
Name of
By-Laws.
Objective.
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-12)

<!-- page 195 -->

195AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed
together with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when an
advertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any household,
such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these By-
laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of the administration of the
premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who shall obtain the license
in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.
(iii) The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any business premise
or any factory within the area of authority of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha , to a
single notice depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise being
maintained at the said place of business or the nature of the products being produced at
the factory, for a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase
"on lease" or "for sale" or "available for rent" displayed on any property intended to be
given in lease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditions specified in these
By-Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at any time when more than
one such advertisement is displayed the provisions of these By-Laws shall apply in
respect of all such additional advertisements.
(9)  The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall
i. maintain such hoarding in a proper condition and security, and
ii. Exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legible
characters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.
(10)  Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the persons who
use the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage is
caused to the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the
damages to that person or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized
Officer of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha shall be exempted of payment of such damages.
(11) Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by the Engineer.
(12)  (i) The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harm caused
or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing used in
this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due to the menacing
or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
(ii) The Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be responsible in any way for removing,
damaging or disfiguring of an advertisement obtained under the license for exhibiting.
(13) (i) Unless any person has a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the
specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by the Chairman or
Authorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in any
form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place in the area of authority of
the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Even after obtaining a valid license for display of advertisements nobody shall display or
let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specifically stated
in the relevant license, to be seen at any public place.
(14) The period of validity of the license already issued to any other licensee in respect of the place
for which the license is currently requested shall have been completed valid time period. Further
there shall be sufficient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an
obstacle to issue a license to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the
viewing of the advertisement being displayed under a license previously issued and still in force.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(13-21)

<!-- page 196 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
196A
(15) (i) The advertisement for which a display license is sought shall not contain any scenes or
words   which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harming
any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.
(ii) It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law of the
country.
(16)  Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accident to
a person walking near the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover,
fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving
a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be done.
(17) No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any religious
place or park or any bridge or street or  electrical post  or any tree or branch close to them or  any
public building connected with them.
(18) An advertisement to be displayed in such manner over or across any pavement carriage way of
any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed  or attached to an overhead bridge
constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erected in a
manner approved by the  engineer.
(19) No person shall cause
(i). Any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form other than
that approved by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(ii). In addition to the approval given by the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, any vehicle
bearing any illuminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent  of police, shall
be driven on any street or road .
(20) Any license issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered or
constructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression.
(21) (i) Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine which areas are allowed to display
advertisements within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) When conditions necessary for the issue of a license under the By-laws in this part have
been fulfilled in respect of any application, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall inform
the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue
the license to the applicant after paying the fees for the license in the manner set out in
section 25(i) and fees for the security deposit set out in section 22(i) of By-Law, after
receipt of the above notice.
(iii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish a notification in the
Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement could be displayed or
exhibited .Such notification shall take effect from the date of its publication, or from
whatsoever date specified therein.
(iv) The Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha shall have power to construct or maintain an
advertisement board  Under these By-Laws as determined by Pradeshiya Sabha in any
land belongs to any person and given to the Pradeshiya Sabha on agreement or in any
land belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to recover the fees already
fixed by the Pradeshiya Sabha from the licensee to display any advertisement on the
board constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha under above sub section (ii).
(vi) Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the fees for advertisement license is
duty of Chairman as specified in above paragraph (i) in these By Law No.25
Functions of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(21 – 24)

<!-- page 197 -->

197AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(22) (i) When a decision has been made to issue a license in respect of any application forwarded
for the purpose of displaying an advertisement, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall
not issue the license for the said application until the applicant has deposited security
money in the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha at the rates to be determined by it from
time to time.
(ii) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazette about
the decision taken by the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of the rate of the
security deposit to be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha prior to issuing a license to
display any advertisement.
(23) (i) After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-Law No. 7 ,
the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already deposited at the
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha before the issuing of the relevant license on a written
request made to the Chairman or  Authored Officer.
(ii) On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be the duty
of Chairman or  Authorized Officer to ensure,
(a) the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-laws No.7
(b) And that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha no damage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said
advertisement or due to any other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before
releasing the said deposit money to the said licensee.
(iii) Unless the Chairman or  Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the manner set
out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the Bylaws, No.
7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha,
the said deposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any licensee has
avoided acting in the manner stated in By-laws No. 7 or when any damage has been
caused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, suitable action shall be taken to deduct
from the deposit money expenditure that the Pradeshiya Sabha would have to bear to
effect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both, and only the
balance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.
(iv) When the money leviable by the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha in taking action in the
manner stated in paragraph (c) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee
shall pay the extra money payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request made by the
licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days to the licensee for
what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.
(24) Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a license issued by the
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha and to take into the possession of the Pradeshiya Sabha or remove
in a manner decided by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(25) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987,  the Secretary has
the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to
display any advertisement, further
(ii) (a) Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha
under para 21(v) to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the place
belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha under these By-Laws.
Or
Charges and fees

<!-- page 198 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
198A
(b) Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed
where land is belonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .
(iii) Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law 22
(iv) Person who has applied for a temporary license to display any advertisement shall pay
license fee according to the decision made by the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha from
time to time.
(v) When it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after the expiry
of the period of validity of the license currently issued for the display of any
advertisement a new license shall have been obtained on displaying the notice for such
succeeding year.
However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha as
charges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of license to be issued for the
display of advertisements, the same license fees determined earlier shall be recovered for the new
license to be issued for the display of the said advertisement.
(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other officer
of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha
(27) (i) V alidity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is
cancelled earlier
(ii) T emporary license shall be valid for days for which  license has been issued unless its
validity is cancelled earlier
(28) (i) When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing of
any advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or risk to
anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an order to bring it
back to proper conditions within two weeks.
(ii) It shall be lawful to cancel the issued license for such advertisement and remove the
advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer, when anybody
in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting in the manner provided
by the provisions of the notification.
(iii) When any license has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) the security
deposit, deposited at the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying that
advertisement shall acquire to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and nobody else shall
have the right to claim the deposit money.
(iv) It shall be lawful Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue temporary license for less than
fourteen days as required, However all conditions are applicable to issue temporary
license.
(29) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by this
officer.
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism

<!-- page 199 -->

199AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(31) When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any license issued having invited the attention in
respect of such violations.
(32) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of  Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya   Sabha
"Authorized Officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"The power to inspect within the specified period" means period from the time of sun shining
until the time of sun setting.
"Engineer" means Engineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by the
Chairman to carry out particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws
a person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager
of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise means" place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"Superintendent of police" means, an officer in police station given authority for the specified
purpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.
"Cut-out" means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of wood or some other
material ;
"Display board" means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging an
advertisement displayed for the information and attention of the public ;
"Advertisement" means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or
notice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustrations
used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or any vehicle or
a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of the public and put in
place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;
Violation of By
Laws (30-31)
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 200 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
200A
PADAVISIRIPURA  PRADESHIYA SABHA
Application for the Advertisement
1. Full Name:—————————.
2. Address:—————————.
3. N.I.C.No:—————————.
4. Mobile No:—————————.
5. E-Mail Address:—————————.
6. Advertisement model annexed:—————————.
7. Location map annexed:—————————.
8. Type of Advertisement: -    One side/ Double sides/ Lighted:—————————.
9. Duration: - From:—————.       To:—————.
10. Size of Advertisement: - Length —————.      Width:—————. Height:—————.
I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be converted to municipal
property without any notice.
…………………. ……………………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer
Chief Revenue Inspector.
Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable
………………… …………………………………
Date  Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 201 -->

201AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Secretary
 Fitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended
…………………… ……… ……………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary,
Size of Advertisement:     Length ................   Wide ................... Area (square meter) ................
               Detail Private Land RDD Road RDA Road LAA Land LAA Road
Agreement is made Yes/No
Land Rent (Rs200*sq)
Advertisement Fees (Rs100*sq)
Total Fees
Va t
NBT
Total Amount
……………………. ………………………………………
Date Management Assistant
Above advertisement is approved / not approved
……………………  ……………………………
Date Secretary

<!-- page 202 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
202A
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No. :………………………………..        Date of the Receipt :…………………………….
License No. :……………………………….         Date of the License :………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
 ………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Signed
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.
………………… ……………………………………..
Date  Field officer/ Technical officer.
 (Planning section)

<!-- page 203 -->

203AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels within the
area of authority of Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor hotels within the area of authority of Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126 (ix) (h)
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Subhas Act,  No.
15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in Schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of
Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in
addition to the regulations noticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law
No. 41 of 1978.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition.
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
(iii) Walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved stones
and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other rooms
which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal sheets and
painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 meters from floor
level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be at
least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them.
(ix) The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other
animals getting into them.
(x) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.
(xi) Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment for
making By-Law
Tasks to be
executed
(4-19)

<!-- page 204 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
204A
a) When the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.
Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.
b) When the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shall be
painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.
(xii) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to be obtained
at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply
and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate has
been obtained.
(xiii) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall be
taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xiv) A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.
(xv) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall
be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a manner
to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xvi) The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone or any
other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While the walls
are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The floor shall be
plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xvii) Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of this By -
Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well. (
(xviii) Water supply facilities to each room at licensed premises shall be made in safe manner by
pipe line.
(xix) Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay and
polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed .
(xx) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises.
(xxi) In the event of the Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xxii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical fire-
fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xxiii) At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks are prepared
shall have been covered with stainless metal sheets or tiles or with any impermeable
material.
(xxiv) All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers and
employees, shall be at least 04 square meters for one person (2 m length X 2m width).

<!-- page 205 -->

205AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Further, an Almira or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keep towel
or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attached
bathrooms shall be there.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying waste
water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.
(8) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedsheets, pillow covers,
blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before to be
provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely
opened at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However
there shall be at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with
air condition in operation.
(9) Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address, and
identity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to
allow it, to be examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.
(10) It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean every room,
stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.
(11) Lavatories and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with
disinfectants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating dour. However, it
may be considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which
customers are staying once a day.
(12) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items or
implements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to be
consumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after
using.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day
if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is
being put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste.

<!-- page 206 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
206A
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(15) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects and it
is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept there
and food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.
(16) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or any
other instruments shall be used to serve food.
(17) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be provided
with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee
to ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety
materials when they are on duty.
(18) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush and
soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(19) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(20) No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she
has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom
(22) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply with the
minimum space specified in para (xxiv) of By Law 5.
(23) No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.
(24) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and there of
the land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place specified
(25) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed.
(ii) No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(26) (i) Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve in any
unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 20 – 29)

<!-- page 207 -->

207AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(ii) any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or
making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or
residence living closely
(27) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law 30
(28) (i) No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products not contained
the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown below accordance with the
food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Srilanka
dated 01.08.1991 under the Food Act, No. 26 of 1980.
(ii) Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit for
human consumption.
(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of
(i) more than one bed in a single bedroom
(ii) more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom
(iii) more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom, and
(iv) more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single beds or
five single beds in a family room.
Further, in respect of any hotel the license shall not allow more than one person to sleep in a single
room or more than two in a double room or more than three in triple room. However, when the age of
the anybody sleeping in any room that person is below 12 years shall not be considered as one
person for purpose of this section.
(30) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.
(31) In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a license issued, any license
contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action
to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore
the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(32) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(33) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any other officer
of Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Sabha
(34) The validity of every license issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(35) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(36) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-laws
to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
any Authorized Officer.
(37) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- law No. 31, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(30 – 31)
Charges and fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(35-38)

<!-- page 208 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
208A
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall
not be exceeded 14 days.
(38) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-law No. 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(39) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(40) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(41) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Padavisiripura Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of
law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)
(42) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Padavisiripura Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act, of Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘Urban Development Authority “ means, the urban development authority constituted under
urban development Law No. 41 of 1978
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period” means, opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for display
or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are prepared and kept for sale
or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;
‘‘Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two
double beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 209 -->

209AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
‘‘Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with a
double bed and one single bed or three single beds ;
‘‘Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or
two single beds.
‘‘Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one
bed ;
‘‘Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed
and a mattress ;
‘‘Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one
mattress and a bed ;
Annexure -01
Compositional Requirements of milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat minimum Milk solids other
percent than milk  fat
minimum percent
1. Buffalo Row, pasteurized or
sterilized 7.0 9.0
2. cow Do. 3.5 8.5
3. Standardized Pasteurized or sterilized 3.25 8.25
4. Toned Do. 2.0 8.5
5. Flavored Do. 2.0 7.2
6. Skimmed Do. - 8.5

<!-- page 210 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
210A
 Schedule-01
Application For Business tax / License 20.. for conducting Hotel within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:——————————.
2. Place of the Business center:——————————.
(i) Ward No: ——————————.
(ii) Assessment No:——————————.
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i) Full Name:——————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
(iv) NIC No:——————————.
(v) Telephone No:——————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:——————————.
(ii) T ype of business:——————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:——————————.
(iv) Previous Business:——————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:——————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-                   Yes: No:————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No:——————————.
Date:——————————.
7. The number of:
(i) Single rooms in the lodging house:
(ii) Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
(iii) Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
(iv) Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
(v) All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …
9. Toilets :
(i) The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii) The number of toilets for female employees: … …
(iii) The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv) The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
10. Bathrooms:
(i) The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii) The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …
12. Source of water supply: … … … … … …

<!-- page 211 -->

211AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste: ........................................................................................................
I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I, agree to comply with the Provisions in
the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
 ……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant.
For Office Use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :……………………                                            Assessment No. :……………………
Name of Street :……………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :…………………………        Arrears of the assessment tax………………….
………………… …. …………………………………………
Date Administrative Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
1. Type of business :……………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid :…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks :……………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Revenue Inspector
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….…………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………
……………………………………
………………………….   …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 212 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
212A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement………………………. Nature………………………….
Environmental License………………… M. O.H report…………………...
C.O.C……………………………………. Excise License…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
 ………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue
license………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
…………………… …………………………………
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                                     Date of the
Receipt :…………………………….
License No :……………………………….                                     Date of the
License :………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
Date  …………………..   …………………………
Sectional Head (Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date. Secretary.
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date. Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 213 -->

213AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of bakeries
Within the area of authority of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and
monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section
126 (ix) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.
(i) Premises shall be kept in clean and renovated condition whether the energy is obtained
by means of firewood, Electricity or any other way.
(ii) W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
iii)  Each room shall be cilium and cilium is in height not less than 3.0 metres from floor level.
(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles.
(v) The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least in a
height of 3.0 meters from the ground level of the room.
(vi) Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones with both
sides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls have been
completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timber shall be
applied with paints.
(vii) All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.
(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at
least 2.5 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least
1.0 meter in width.
(ix) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be renewed at least
once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate has been
obtained.
(x) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures shall
be taken to prevent contamination of that water.
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
Enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
Executed ( 4-25)

<!-- page 214 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
214A
(xi) Supplying water to each room of the license premises shall be made in manner by pipe
line.
(xii) In the event of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meter away from the constructed well.
(xiii) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13.
(xiv) When the bakery requesting a license is one using wood,
(a) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built a
height of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.
(b) A sufficient receptacle to be kept to the dispose of ash and remnants of wood
removed from the oven of the bakery.
(c) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.
(d) A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel.
(xv)  When the bakery requesting a license is using electricity-
(a) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to the bakery equipment shall be in a
safe condition and trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage and
leaks in electricity shall have been fixed.
(b) Electric cables of electric circuit fixed within the premises shall be drawn through
pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.
(6) If electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery, general fire extinguishing equipment shall
be maintained in working condition, and electrical fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in
addition.
(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No. 5 in these By-Laws to have been applied with paints shall
be so applied with paints at least once a year.
(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a week.
(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been finishing smoothly
without any gaps otherwise there shall be fully covered with stainless metal sheets.
(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employee deployed at the licensed premises to
a medical test at least once a year.
(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in prompt
maintaining condition.

<!-- page 215 -->

215AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) The licensee shall have to be supplied necessary face masks gloves and other safety materials
to the employees and to be ensure whether the employees are wearing those after having body
wash or bath when they have engage with their duty within the license premises.
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By Law No.
14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a week or more than if
necessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being
put or removed.
(14) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be taken
to segregate them as follows:–
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic  related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metals or iron or any other metals;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(15) A separate room shall be maintained exclusively used for storage of flour other ingredients used
in the bakery shall  be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of rats ,flies or any other
kind of insects.
(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 in these By-Laws a rack made
of timber on a stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack
shall have been finished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover,
while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects
remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.
(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken out and
cleaned at least twice a month.
(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for males and
females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructed at a
distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale of
products such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

<!-- page 216 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
216A
(19) All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean
nails and soap or fluid soap.
(20) It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronic
balance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under
the provisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any
customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.
(21) In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall be the
duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of
waste material or water.
(22) Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,
Sinhala and English.
(23) Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorized by
the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(24) Name list (including sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of Chairman
or Authorized Officer
(25) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a bakery within the authority of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha area,
unless having a valid license issued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in
schedule 1 for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(27) Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakery
products are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of
bakery products at any time.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person shall engage himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any
licensed premise without having clean dress.
(29) Unauthorized chemicals and colorings shall not be used for the bakery products.
(30) No person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws in this part,
and shall not be keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for
the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees of the
bakery shall not be included to this.
(31) Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products. Further,
if the unground water tank is constructed for use, it should be constructed a distance of 18 meters
away from waste fit or ash fit.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(26-34)

<!-- page 217 -->

217AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(32) No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.
(33) No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided for purpose.
(34) Any licensee shall not resist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 35
(35) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any kind of
bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed
premise.
(36) In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a license issued under the
By-Laws any license contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized
Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(37) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.
(38) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(39)The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(40) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By- Laws
within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(41) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions of these By-
Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the
Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.
(42) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 35, shall act as stipulated in
the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(43) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the
place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 fails to act as
stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(44) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(45) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shall
be an offence.
(46) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabhas limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act No .15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted
before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of
section 122(2).
Function of the
Pradeshiya Sabha
(35-36).
Charges and fees
Delegation of
Powers.
Valid period of
license or
permit.
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
(40-43).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Law
Fines and
Penalties.

<!-- page 218 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
218A
(47)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha
‘‘Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” period from the time of sun shining until
the time of sun setting.
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of this by law and
person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in charge   or Manager
of the management of this place.
‘‘Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
‘‘Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured
in any bakery for sale or on order placed by any person.
‘‘Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are
manufactured and it shall also include any place where such food prepared or where goods are
stored for preparation of such food.
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 219 -->

219AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
Schedule 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area of
authority of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business center:-
2. Place of the Business center:-
(i) Ward No.:-
(ii) Assessment No.:-
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i) Full Name:-
(ii) Permanent Address:-
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv) NIC No.:————————.
(v) Telephone No.:————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning:————————.
(ii) T ype of business:————————.
(iii) Name of the manager of the business center / Agent name:————————.
(iv) Previous Business:————————.
5. If it is rented building
(i) Name of the Owner:————————.
(ii) Address:————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:-Yes: No:————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:————————.
Date:————————.
I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the Provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 220 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
220A
For office use
For report as follows:
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                      Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :…………………………         Arrears of the assessment tax :………………….
……………………………… …………………………………………
Date  Administrative Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Department,
1. Type of business :………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid :……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 ……………………………. …………………………………………
Date   Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
……………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………...................
………………………………. …………………………….
Date Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 221 -->

221AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………;
Date Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………;
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………. …………………………………………;
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. D ate of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:…………………………......
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..;
 Sectional Head(Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………;
Date Secretary.
Signed
                   ……………………. …………………………………………;
Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 222 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
222A
 By - Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, Supervise and control of annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as   By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and
control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business within the
area of authority of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No 15
of 1987.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126 (ix) (k)
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in annexure 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous and
annoying business carrying by the Chairman or Chairman of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, if
only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled:
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition;
(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 meters in height;
(iii) Walls has to be made of bricks, cement or lime stone or any other permitted stone and
should be plastered and white washed;
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from floor
level;
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable;
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter max trail;
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles;
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the bins
must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them;
(ix) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws;
(x) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises;
(xi) In the event of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the
said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment For
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-15)

<!-- page 223 -->

223AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without Mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen Meters away from the constructed
well.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where white washing is needed to be
applied under By-Law No 5 in these By-Law shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.
(8) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo. 9
in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more if
necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being
put or removed.
(9) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows:
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b) Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron and any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate bins or
containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(10) All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying or
effluvial.
(11) All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering and put in
to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.
(12) All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring from the
production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall be
disposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.
(13) All license holders shall be kept wall of business premise in safe mode without absorbing any
dirty and keep in good manner.
(14) All license holders shall kept baskets and other instruments clean should have wash the utilities
daily.
(15) All license holders clean the tank which using for wash or drunk leather or any other materials
without spreading any smell.
(16) No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and dangerous
business carrying within the authorized area of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, unless he or she
has poses a valid license issued by the chairman or authorized officer on the application prepared
according to the specimen found in annexure 01.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(16 – 18)

<!-- page 224 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
224A
(17) No any person or licensee holder shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the place
for sleeping and taking food inside in night or day time.
(18) Any license holder should not use any river, water course, canal, well or any drain, sea orany
other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall not be
polluted above mentioned water resources.
(19) In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous
and annoying business is maintained under a license issued under this By-Laws, any contravenes
arose of any section of the By-Law the chairman or authorized officer shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee for demanding him to take necessary measures to accomplish with
prescribed conditions to reset the said premise to the approved position before a specified date.
(20) Any Person running dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying business
decided by Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha are included in orderly in schedule Nos. (I), (II), and
(III) of this By Law, it is duty of the Chairman and authorized officer to informing such person
about issuing the license.
(21) It is a duty of the Chairman or authorized officer to inform the applicant whether it is
accepted to issue license or rejected with the reason in accordance with these by laws within 30
days of receiving an application.
(22) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Subhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run annoying
business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business.
(23) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions converted
or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(24) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(25) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received license under the provisions to cooperate for
inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any authorized
officer.
(26) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No. 19, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman
has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not be exceeded
14 days.
(27) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned By-law No. 26 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in the
notice on or before the specified date.
(28) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(29) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws is an
offence.
Functions of the
Local Authority
(19-21)
Charges and  fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (25-27)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws

<!-- page 225 -->

225AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(30) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(31) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
‘‘The Chairman” means who has been elected as Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by
the provisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act;
‘‘Secretary” means the Secretary of the Padavisiripura   Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabhas;
‘‘Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty;
‘‘The power to inspect within the specified period ” means opportunity for take   measures to
make business or product at the specified place;
‘‘Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws
and person who is responsible for management, is employed by  the person in-charge or
Manager of the management of this place;”
‘‘Licensed premise” means, specific range of place for which is issued license to take all
measures under these provisions.
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and Definition.

<!-- page 226 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
226A
FIRST SCHEDULE
Annoying Businesses
(1)    Clearing and Storing Graphite.
(2)    Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.
(3)    Tanning of Leather.
(4)    Leather for selling.
(5)    Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or egg).
(6)    Producing of Maldives fish or storing more than 50 Kg.
(7)    Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.
(8)    Maintaining a veterinary hospital.
(9)    Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.
(10)  Taking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.
(11)  Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.
(12)  Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.
(13)  Drying tobacco.
(14)  Producing animal feed.
(15)  Producing Poonac.
(16)  Boiling meats with blood.
(17)  Producing soap
(18) Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.
(19)  Making trunk boxes.
(20)  Keeping new and old metals.
(21)  Keeping ruined metals
(22)  Making housing furniture.
(23)  Making cane products.
(24)  Maintaining carpeting industry.
(25)  Making syrup or fruit juice.
(26)  Making sweets.
(27)  Dunking coconut husks
(28)  Producing brushes. (except tooth brushes)
(29)  Producing tooth brushes
(30)  Collecting toddy.
(31)  Producing vinegar.
(32)  Cleaving timber.
(33)  Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.
(34)  Producing soda.

<!-- page 227 -->

227AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(35)  Painting fibers.
(36)  Producing leather instruments.
(37)  Tin fish, fruits and other foods.
(38)  Powdering coffee and grains.
(39)  Producing baking powder.
(40)  Making gas mantels.
(41)  Producing putty.
(42)  Making camphor.
(43)  Making candle.
(44)  Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.
(45)  Producing blue of cloth washing.
(46)  Producing sealing wax.
(47)  Producing perfumes.
(48)  Producing shocks.
(49)  Producing tires or tubes.
(50)  Refill tires.
(51)  Vulcanizing tires.
(52)  Manufacturing cement.
(53)  Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.
(54)  Manufacturing sand papers.
(55)  Manufacturing plastic products.
(56)  Kilning bricks.
(57)  Weaving clothes by machines.
(58)  Manufacturing or re storing of acids.
(59)  Manufacturing of roofing tiles.
(60)  Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.
(61)  Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.
(62)  Manufacturing garments products.
(63)  Running a poultry farm.
(64)  Manufacturing disinfectants.
(65)  Repairing and renovation of tires and tubes.
(66)  Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.
(67)  Manufacturing cigarettes and cigarettes with tobacco.

<!-- page 228 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
228A
SECOND SCHEDULE
Dangerous Businesses
(1) Quarrying metal.
(2) Making cool drinks (aerated water).
(3) Making ice.
(4) Manufacturing vegetable oils.
(5) Manufacturing coconut oils.
(6) Manufacturing or storing matches.
(7) Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.
(8) Manufacturing tea boxes.
(9) Manufacturing coir or other fibers.
(10) Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.
(11) Storing hay.
(12) Storing used garments.
(13) Manufacturing and repairing jewelleries.
(14) Sawing timber by machines.
(15) Quarrying lime stone.
(16) Running a business using machines.
(17) Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.
(18) Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.
(19) Storing used papers and newspapers.
(20) Spray Painting.
(21) Storing fire working or crackers.
(22) Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)
(23) Running a welding work shop.
(24) Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.
(25) Printers.
(26) Blasting and gunpowder stores.
(27) Displaying advertisement
THIRD SCHEDULE
Annoying and Dangerous Businesses
(1) Clearing mica.
(2) Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.
(3) dry clean or dyeing.
(4) Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.
(5) Electro planting metals.
(6) Manufacture of oil or animal oil.
(7) Kilning lime stones.
(8) Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.
(9) Processing cod-liver oil.
(10) Building boats.
(11) Recharge or repairing batteries

<!-- page 229 -->

229AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(12) Welding metals.
(13) Repairing motor vehicles.
(14) Servicing motor vehicles.
(15) Grinding metals with machines.
(16) Running a casting shop.
(17) Running a tin workshop.
(18) Making bodies for motor vehicles.
(19) Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.
(20) Manufacturing disinfectors.
(21) Manufacturing of mosquito coils.
(22) Manufacturing timber protects.
(23) Manufacturing gal tar.
(24) Manufacturing glass products.
(25) Making glass mirrors.
(26) Galvanize metals.
(27) Manufacturing welding lead.
(28) Manufacturing aluminum products.
(29) Manufacturing barbed wire.
(30) Manufacturing wire nails.
(31) Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.
(32) Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.
(33) Manufacturing P.I buckets.
(34) Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(35) Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.
(36) Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.
(37) Manufacturing machineries.
(38) Manufacturing electrical products.
(39) Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.
(40) Manufacturing storage batteries.
(41) Assembling tractors.
(42) Manufacturing radiator.
(43) Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.
(44) Manufacturing Battery.
(45) Paddy mills.
(46) Making coffin.
(47) Manufacturing and repairing telephones.
(48) Assembling and repairing electrical products.
(49) Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments
(50) Funeral service supply center (Funeral home)

<!-- page 230 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
230A
Annexure 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business,
and annoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Name of the Business Centre:—————————.
2. Place of the Business Centre:—————————.
(i) Ward No:—————————.
(ii)  Assessment No:—————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:—————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
3. Name of the Applicant:—————————.
(i) Full Name:—————————.
(ii) Permanent Address:—————————.
(iii) GN Division No. & Name:—————————.
(iv) NIC No:—————————.
(v) Telephone No:—————————.
(vi) E-mail Address:—————————.
(i) Date of Beginning the Business:—————————.
(ii) Name of the manager of the meat Stall:—————————.
(iii) Previous Business:—————————.
5. If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:—————————.
(ii) Address:—————————.
6. Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:—————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.: —————————.
Date:—————————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..;
 Date Signature of Applicant.

<!-- page 231 -->

231AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For Office use
For report as follows :
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward :…………………………                                 Assessment No. :……………………
Name of Street :………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner :……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment :…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value :………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. ………………………………………
 Date Administrative Officer.
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business: ………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid :……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii) Remarks :………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
             Date Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
     ………………………………. …………………………………………
     Date Medical Officer of Health.
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement :……………………….                             Nature :………………………….
Environmental License :…………………                           M.O.H report :……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                             Excise License :…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. ……………………………………
Date Chief Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 232 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
232A
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary
Approved/Not Approved
……………………………….  …………………………………………
 Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….  Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License
………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Secretary
Signed
……………………  …………………………………………
 Date  Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 233 -->

233AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as in relating to formulate, regularize, control and supervise of
Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section
126 (XXIII) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act No. 15 of 1987.
(4) Obtaining the annual license by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty and
obligation of the licensee.
(5) The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Center by the
Chairman or Authorized officer of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified
conditions are duly fulfilled.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.
(ii) W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height.
(iii) These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from floor
level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to each
room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if
the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall be at
least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
meter.
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the place
where the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning.
(viii) Provide sufficient sitting space at least 1.5 square meter to each customer arriving at the
premises expecting service.
(ix) There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if water is
used in providing services to customers
(x) In the event of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making
By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed
(4-25)
By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of Hair
Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers within the area of authority of the Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 234 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
234A
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treated
and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixing
with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen meters away from the constructed well.
(xi) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.
(xii) The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated from the
buildings used as a residence.
(xiii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical fire-
fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xiv) Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building.
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under   By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) The floor of the licensed premises shall wash with disinfectants at least once a month.
(8) During the period of providing service to customers there shall be sufficient and continuous
water supply to the premises.
(9) It shall be enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and a sufficient number of
utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils.
(10) It shall be sufficient wash basins, soap or liquid soap for the use of employees when they are
providing services at the licensed premises.
(11) Sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colors (not in dark colors) shall be provided for
the use of the customers at the premises.
(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle shall be kept with a tight lid to collect cut hair
and other waste.
(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event of
electrically controlled instruments are used.
(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box shall be kept containing sufficient amount of first aid
instruments and drugs as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health.
(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner as to be
readily available to customers and employees.
(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed center —
i. Having bath or body wash before providing services
ii. maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition
iii. keep their nails cut and without any dirt
iv. Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer

<!-- page 235 -->

235AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,
i. instruments used in the licensed center are sterilized after each use
ii. brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day
iii. Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use
(18) The licensee shall ensure
i. that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of each
customer are put into a receptacle having being collected by sweeping or through
electrically operated mechanism ; and
ii. that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, after use of
each customer.
(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces of cut
hair are dumped in a pit at least one meter below the ground level at the end of daily activities or if
necessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure that
precautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.
(20) In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the manner set
out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the Padavisiripura
Pradeshiya Sabha scavenging vehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management program
of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(21) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacle used to
collect waste material produced at the licensed center.
(22) List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop.
(23) Every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employees who are
working at the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that
register when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.
(24) Every licensee of a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keep affixed a
board with his name and the words "Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre"
legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside of his
premises.
(25) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place to a medical test
at least once a year.
(26) No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre within the authority
of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid license for the purpose of
that, issued by the Chairman.
(27) (i) Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall not
keep or causes to keep any pet.
(ii) No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item for washing
clothes.
(28) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing
Tasks not to
be carried out
(26 –34)

<!-- page 236 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
236A
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the licensed place,
or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii) No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensed place,
unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(29) The interior of a licensed premises shall not be used in the night or in the day time as a place
for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall be allowed to do so.
(30) The use of,
(i) any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or
(ii) Alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, in
respect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises.
(31) The licensee in any licensed center shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towel
that is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.
(32) Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall be pursued
in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the license issued under the provisions of the
by-laws in this part.
(33) No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon except in to a
spittoon provided for that purpose.
(34) No licensee shall use any articles banned by Sri Lankan Law or Medical Officer of Health of
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha at licensed premises.
(35) In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center is
maintained under a license issued under the By-Laws any license contravenes any section of these
By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee
demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
(36) (i) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, the Secretary has the authority to
charge for license fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run any Hair
Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers.
(ii)  Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the license fees for Hair Dressing
Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centers shall be the duty of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya
Sabha Chairman as specified in above sub section (i)
(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to any other officer of
Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(38) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
Function of the
Local Authority.
Charges and
fees.
Delegation of
power.
Valid period of
license or
permit.

<!-- page 237 -->

237AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
(39) (i) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(ii) It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received license under the
provisions, to the Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman or any Authorized officer for inspection, and
shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.
(40)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 in these By- Laws, shall
act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued for the place when any licensee
who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 40 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in
the notice on or before the specified date.
(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by
these officers.
(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws shall
be an offence.
(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convicted
after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya
Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15
of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court
of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).
(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –
"The Chairman" means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Act.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
delegated to carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
"Authorized officer" means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
"Licensee" means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws of
the hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty center and person who is responsible for
management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
"Licensed premise" means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
"The appropriate time" means any occasion when service is being provided to the customers at
the premises.
"Apron" means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtaining
service from the licensed center.
Procedure of
inspection and
Powers(39-41).
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By laws
Fines and
Penalties.
Interpretation
and definition

<!-- page 238 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
238A
SCHEDULE – 01
Application for Business tax / License 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and
Beauty Centers within the area of authority of Padavisiripura  Pradeshiya Sabha
1.   Name of the Business Centre:——————————.
2.  Place of the Business Centre:——————————.
(i) Ward No.:——————————.
(ii)  Assessment No.:——————————.
(iii)  Name of the Road/Street:——————————.
(iv)  GN Division No. & Name:——————————.
3.    Name of the Applicant:——————————.
(i)  Full Name:——————————.
(ii)  Permanent Address:——————————.
(iii)  GN Division No & Name:——————————.
(iv)  NIC No.:——————————.
(v)  Telephone No.:——————————.
(vi)  E-mail Address:——————————.
4. (i) Date of Beginning the Business:——————————.
(ii) T ype of the Business:——————————.
(iii) Previous Business:——————————.
5.    If it is rented building,
(i) Name of the Owner:——————————.
(ii) Address:-
6.    Whether last year license was obtained:- Yes: No:——————————.
If last year license was obtained,
License No.:——————————.
Date:———————.
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the
Provisions in the By Law. I apply for the license for the year 20….. To run the Industry/Business under
the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date  Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 239 -->

239AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer
For the Report of Assessment Section
Ward:…………………………                                                           Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………                             Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date  Sectional Head
For the Report of Revenue Department,
(i) Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii) Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………
(iii) Under A/B/C
(iv) Remarks:………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector.
For the Report of  the Medical Officer of Health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
Date  Public Health Inspector.
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 240 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020' 03'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2020
240A
For the Report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                                                     Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                                                   M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                                                 Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended /not recommended for the following reasons:………………………….………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………… …………………………………………
 Date Chief Revenue Inspector.
Secretary’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license …………… ………………… ……………………
………………….…  …………………………………………
Date Secretary.
Approved/Not Approved
……………………  …………………………………………
                  Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the Report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..
 Sectional head (Revenue).
Submit for Signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Secretary.
Signed
……………………. …………………………………………
Date  Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer
03-949
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.