

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
775
wxl 1"884 - 2014 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'10'10
No. 1,884 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of  31st October, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
17th October, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ...  ––
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 776
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
775
N.B.— Parts  I : III and III  of the Gazette No. 1,883 of  03.10.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –10.10.2014
776
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  INSTRUCTOR/
INSTRUCTRESS  IN  TEXTILES  (GRADE III)  OF  THE DEPARTMENT  OF  TEXTILES  IN  THE  NORTH  WESTERN
PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  SERVICE  - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from the male and female permanent  residents within the North Western Province who have satisfied the
qualifications referred to in this notification, for the post of Instructor/Instructress in Textiles (Grade III) in the Department of Textiles of
the North Western Provincial Public Service.
01. Number of Vacancies.– 21
02. Salary Scale .–
2.1 As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv) the monthly salary scale applicable to this post is
Rs. 13,120 – 10 x 145 –11 x 170 – 10 x 240 – 10 x320 – Rs. 22,040 according to MN 1/2006A.
Note .– i
(a) This salary scale will be subject to amendments made form time to time by the Government. This appointment is subject
to a probation period of three years. The First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed by the officer within a period
of 03 years after recruiting to Grade III of the Public Management Assistants' Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.
The Second Efficienty Bar Examination shall be passed within a period of 03 years after promoting to Grade II and the
Third Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within a period of 05 years after promoting to Grade I.
(b) Prescribed official language proficiency shall be obtained within 05 years of joining the service as per Public Administration
Circular 01/2014 and consequent circulars.
2.2 Age Limit .– The age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years on the last date for acceptance of applications.
The maximum age limit will not be applicable for the candidates those who are already employed in the Public/Provincial Public
Service on permanent basis. They should submit their application through their Heads of Department.
2.3 Conditions of Employment .–
(i) This post is permanent ane pensionable. Selected candidates should contribute for the widows/widowers and orphans'
pension scheme from the date of appointment.
(ii) The regulations mentioned at 10th and 12th sub statements in Chapter II, Establishment code are relevant to this post.
(iii) Selected candidates are liable to serve any area within North Western Province and subjected to transfers.
(iv) Selected candidates are subjected to provisions of the Establishments Code and Financial Regulations of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Departmental Regulations, North Western Provincial Council Disciplinary
Regulations, Provincial Financial Regulations, terms and conditions set out by the Terms of Reference of Recruitment
to post of Textile Instructor/Instructress and other regulations and amendments made from tiem to time by the
Government and Provincial Council (NWP)
03. Education and Other Qualifications :–
3.1 Educational Qualification
(a) Should have passed 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in not more than  two sittings with credits for 04 subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil and Mathematics and two other subjects. (Should have passed 6 subjects with minimum 3 credits
at one sitting)
and
(b) Should have passed 1 subject minimum at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (except general test)

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
777
3.2 Professional Qualifications .– Should have obtained final certificate for textile offered by a training institute of Department of
Textile.
N. B. – Every applicant should have completed and obtained all Educational, Professional and other Qualification aforesaid on the da te
of 10.11.2014.
04. Candidates :
4.1 Should be Citizens of Sri Lanka ;
4.2 Should be permanent residents within the area of authority of the Notrth Western Provincial Council during a period not less
than 3 year  immediately prior to the closing date of applications are accepted. (residency should be proved by the certified
Grama Niladhari certificate, which should be countersigned by Divisional Secretary)
4.3 Should have an excellent character and Physically in Good Health.
4.4 Should have completed and obtained all Educational , Professional and other Qualification aforesaid on the closing date of
application.
05. Method of recruitment .– A written test will be held by the Public Service Commission in the North Western Province or by
an institute authorized by it. Candidates who have passed the written test should face a practical test. Based on the marks priority for both
written and practical test and number of vacancies candidates are called for the interview. Recruitment will be made to the post of Instructor/
Instructress in Textiles (Grade III) from the qualified candidates faced for the interview.
06. Scheme of Examination.– This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Media. Candidates will not be allowed to
change Language Medium applied initially.
Subjects  :-
(i) Written Test
Subjects Time allowed Maximum Marks Pass Mark Syllabus
Textile records 1 hour and 30 minutes 100 40
Mechanical records 1 hour and 30 minutes 100 40
Textile Mathematics 1 hour and 30 minutes 100 40
General Knowledge 1 hour and 30 minutes 100 40
Four question papers will be prepared for each four subject above. Candidates who whould pass the written test would be subjected to the
practical test.
Knowledge on all the weaving
methods and fashion designing used
in handloom weaving is tested.
Knowledge on parts and equipment
of hand looming machine and their
usage is tested.
knowledge on mathematical modals
used in handloom manufacturing is
tested.
General Knowledge on handloom
industry including history, new
trends, marketing and management is
tested.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –10.10.2014
778
(ii) Practical Test
Subject Time allowed Maximum Marks Pass Marks Syllabus
Practical Test 30 minutes 100 40
07. An examination fee of Ra. 500 should be paid to the Divisional Secretariat situated close. So as to be credited to the North Western
Provincial Council Fund and the receipt  (NWP F2) obtained should be attached to the application. Any receipt or money order other than
the receipt obtained by so paying money will not be entertained. The examination fee paid will not be refunded under any circumstances.
08. Method of application :
8.1 Application forms should be prepared by using both sides of A4 size paper (21 x 29cm) in accordance with the specimen
form of application appended to this notification. Paragraphs form 1 to 5 should appear on the first side of the page,
Paragraphs No. 6 onwards should appear on the other pages, Duly filled applications should be sent by registered post
to "the Secretary, Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Complex, Kurunegala, to be received before 10.11.2014.
The words "Recruitment to the Post of Instructor/Instructress inTextiles (Grade III) 2014" Should be written on top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. (Candidates those who are already employed in the Public/Provincial
Public Service on premanent basis should send their applications through their Head of the Department )
8.2 Candidate's signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice
of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an Officer holding a
permanent post in the Public Service whose monthly salary is Rs. 20,040 or above.
09. Closing date of accepting applications .– 10.11.2014
10. Applications which do not comply with the qualifications referred to in this notification will be rejected. Issuing of an admission
card to a candidate will not be considered as a fulfillment of qualifications to sit for the examination. If it reveals that a candidate has not fulfilled
the required qualification at the time of perusal in the interview in terms of this notificaiton, the eligibility to the appointment will be cancelled.
Every applicant should have completed every qualification pertaining to each post on or before the closing date of application are accepted.
11. Identity of candidates .– Candidates should furnish one of the following documents to the supervisor of Examination in support
of their identity .–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department for Registration of Persons
(b) A valid passport
Note .– Candidates who fail to prove their identity in the examination hall will be condisdered as ineligible candidates.
12. If admission card is not received, at least before 07 days, that should be informed the Secretary, Public Service Commission in
the North Western Province, Provincial Council Office Complex, Kurunegala. Following details should be submitted in such instance.
(a) Name of the examination :———————
(b) Name in full and address of the candidate :————————.
(c) Address to which the application was referred, registration Number, Post Office and the date :———————.
13. If reveals that a candidate has not fulfilled the required qualification at any time before the appointment, his/her candidature will
be cancelled. If reveals that a candidate has submitted false information knowingly or concealed an important reasons after the appointment,
he/she will be dismissed or his/her service will be terminated.
1. Practical Knowledge on handloom weaving,
fashion designing, preparing a hand looming
machine for weaving and tools used for it is tested.
2. Allowing to weave a given design in a given warp
within a given time Marks will be given to the
length woven. Marks will be reduced for errors
made in weaving.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
779
14. The Public Service Commission in the NWP reserves the right to take the final decision of filling the vacancies already reported
and or which will occur in future from the persons who have been successful at the examination if available and reserves the right of taking
final decision pertaining to the metters to which the regulations have not been given in this notification.
In terms of the order made by the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission.
KANTHI WEHELLA,
Secretary,
Provincial Council Public Service Commission (NWP)
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala,
10th October, 2014.
Specimen Application Form
Index Number :
(for office use only)
OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  INSTRUCTOR/
INSTRUCTRESS  IN  TEXTILES  (GRADE III) OF THE DEPARTMENT OF  TEXTILES  IN  THE  NORTH WESTERN
PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  SERVICE - 2014
1.0 1.1 Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———————————————.
1.2 Name in full (in block capital letters) :———————————————.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinahal/Tamil) :———————————————.
1.4 Name in full (in block capital letters ) :———————————————.
1.5 National Identity Card Number :
2.0 2.1 Address to which admission cards should be sent :———————————————.
2.2 Permanent Address :———————————————.
2.3 Telephone No. : Private :————————— Official :———————
3.0 Sex (Tick in the relevant cage)
Female Male
4.0 The medium of the examinaiton (Tick in the relevant cage) (       )
Sinhala Tamil English
5.0 Date of birth
Date Month Year
5.1 Age as on 10.11.2014 the closing date of application:
Years Months Days
6.0 Educational qualifications and other qualifications (under 3.1 of the notification of calling applications):
(a) Year and index No. of the (O/L) Examination :
First Time : Year —————— Second Time : Year ————————
Index Number :———————— Index Number :————————

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –10.10.2014
780
Subject Grades obtained Subject Grades obtained
 First time   Second time First time Second time
(b) (i) Year and index No. of the (A/L) Examination :——————————
(ii) Index Number :———————— Index Number :————————
Subject              Grades obtained Subject Grades Obtained
(c) Qualifications fulfilled in terms of the notificaton (Clearly mentioned about the courses followed under 3.2 in the notification).
If these particulars are not clearly and correctly mentioned, the applications will be rejected.)
           Institute Course followed Duration Grade             No. of Certificate and Date
    7.0    The number indicated on the receipt obtained by paying examination fees :——————————
Date :———————
Divisional Secretariat from which the receipt was obtained :—————————
Affix the relevant receipt firmly here
    8.0  I ———————————— hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to
the best of my knowledge. I am also aware tht if any information given in this application is found to be false or incorrect, the
eligibility for the appointment to the post of Instructor/Instructress in Textiles (Grade III) in the Department of Textiles of the
North Western Provincial Public Service will be cancelled and/disciplinary action will be taken against me.
————————————,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :—————

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2014'10'10
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
781
Attestation of the signature of the applicant
(Delete unnecessary words)
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss —————————————— who is personally known to me, placed his/her signature
in my presence.
Name of person attesting the signature :——————
Signature :———————
Designation and frank :———————
Candidate's signature in the applicaion form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice of Peace,
Commissioner  for Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed forces, an Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service
whose monthly salary is Rs. 20,040 or above.
R
ECOMMENDATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT FOR THE CANDIDATES ALREADY EMPLOYED IN THE
PUBLIC OR PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE.
(Delete unnecessary words)
 I hereby certified that Mr./Mrs./Miss ———————————————— is employed on permanent basis in this Institute/
Department/Ministry as ————————————— and that he/she could be released from his/her present post, if selected for an
appointment to the results of this examination and that the partculars given in his/her application have been checked with records available
in this departments and that he/she is eligible to sit this examination according to the regulations prescribed in the Gazette Notification relating
to this examination.
———————————,
Signature of the Head of the Department,
(Should be franked)
Date :———————.
10 – 373
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.