

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2273$14 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 29 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2022'03'29
No.  2273/14  -   TuesdAY,    mArch  29,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  G 36477 — 14  (03/2022)
mY No. : cI/05.
INDuSTRIAL  DISPuTES  ACT  (ChAPTER 131)
The collective Agreement entered into between commercial Bank of ceylon PLc, No. 21, sir razik Fareed mawatha, 
colombo 01 of the one part and the ceylon Bank employees union, No. 20, Temple road, colombo 10 of the other part on 
21st January 2021 is hereby published in terms of section 06 of the Industrial disputes Act, chapter 131, of the Legislative 
enactments of ceylon (revised edition 1956.) 
 B. K. PraBath ChandraKeerthi,
 commissioner General of Labour.
department of Labour,
Labour secretariat,
colombo 05,
09th march, 2022.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
2A
Collective Agreement No. 10 of 2021
commercIAL BANk oF ceYLoN PLc, coLLecTIve AGreemeNT JuNIor execuTIve AssIsTANTs ANd  
ALLIed GrAdes
This collective Agreement made and entered on this 21st day of January 2021 between commercial Bank of ceylon PLc,  
a Bank duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha (Formerly Bristol 
street), colombo 01. (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’)
of one Part 
and 
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at No. 20, 
Temple road, colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the union’)
of the other Part
With a view to a revision of the terms and conditions of the Junior executive Assistants and Allied Grades employed by 
the Bank, an agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms 
and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees, and maintaining an efficient and productive 
working environment, and the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder.
1. Parties To Be Covered and Bound
 This Agreement shall cover and bind commercial Bank of ceylon PLc (the Bank), the ceylon Bank employees’ union 
(the union) and members of the union employed on permanent monthly contracts of employment by the Bank in the 
grade of Junior executive Assistants and Allied Grades for whom salary range is been prescribed in this Agreement in 
schedule I hereto (hereinafter referred to as the ‘employees’) subject to the provisions of clauses 5, 6 hereof.
2.  Date of Operation and Duration
 This Agreement shall be in force from the 01st January 2021 and shall continue until either party terminates it by written 
notice in terms of the Industrial disputes Act, as amended, but no such notice shall be given before the 31st december, 
2023. The union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised collective Agreement at any 
time on or after 01st April, 2023.
3. Earlier Agreements
 This Agreement shall supersede any other collective Agreement entered into or binding on either party hereto and such 
earlier Agreements, including the commercial Bank of ceylon PLc collective Agreement for Junior executive Assistants 
and Allied Grades entered into on 16th January, 2018 between the parties hereto (Agreement No. 04 of 2018), shall stand 
repudiated.
4. Matters Covered and Bound
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised 
by the union and/or in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of this 
Agreement and the union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the 
matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the extent 
agreed.
(b)  It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this Agreement that they shall not during the continuance in force 
of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits 
presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
3A
5. Consolidated Salary
 employees covered by this Agreement and in service as at the date of this Agreement shall, from the 1st January 2021 be 
placed within the salary range stipulated in schedule I hereto, in the manner set out in clause 6 (i), (ii) and (iii) hereof.
 The employees entitled to a salary revision with effect from the date of this Agreement will receive such revision with 
effect from 01st January 2021 along with ePF and eTF payments.
6. Immediate Increase and Conversion of Salaries
 For the placement of an employee within the salary range stipulated in schedule I hereof, the following provisions shall 
apply.
(i) (a)  In the first year of operation of this Agreement, Employees who are in the grade of Junior Executive Assistants 
(who have completed probation) shall be first placed at the minimum salary of Rs. 56,500/- per month with 
effect from 01st January, 2021.
 (b)  The minimum salary of all employees who come to the Junior executive Assistant Grade with effect from 02nd 
January 2021 will be placed at rs. 52,500/- per month and such salary will be increased to rs. 56,500/- upon 
confirmation in such Grade.
(ii)  All employees covered under this Agreement will be given a revision as per the below table on the salary as of 31st 
december 2020. Provided, however, the said revision will be granted in 3 stages (years) as follows :
(a)  30% of the revised amount with effect from 01.01.2021.
(b) 50% of the revised amount with effect from 01.01.2022.
(c) 20% of the revised amount with effect from 01.01.2023.
           Salary Range     Increment Amount
rs. 51,001/- to rs. 56,500/- rs. 4,000/-
rs. 56,501/- to rs. 61,500/- rs. 5,000/-
rs. 61,501/- to rs. 70,000/- rs. 6,500/-
rs. 70,001/- to rs. 81,500/- rs. 7,500/-
rs. 81,501/- to rs. 95,000/- rs. 8,500/-
rs. 95,001/ to rs. 106,000/- rs. 10,500/-
rs. 106,001/- and above rs. 12,000/-
(iii)   If the salary as of 31st december 2020 is below rs. 68,000/- and if an employee has completed a service period 
of five years in the Bank, as of 01st January 2021, (which includes his period with the Bank as a Banking 
Trainee), such employee would be placed at a minimum salary of rs. 68,000/- per month. The increased amount 
(difference between the salary of 31st december 2020 and the minimum salary) will be provided to each eligible 
employee, in three stages (years) as follows:
a) 30% of the increased amount with effect from 01.01.2021
b) 50% of the increased amount with effect from 01.01.2022
c) 20% of the increased amount with effect from 01.01.2023
(iv) (a) The minimum salary of employees who are already in the Junior executive Assistant Grade by 01st January, 
2021, but on probation, will be placed at a minimum salary of rs. 52,500/- and will be given an increment rate 
of 5% on the said minimum salary. on completion of the probation period, an increase of rs. 4,000/- shall be 
added to the salary at the time of confirmation.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
4A
 (b) A sum equal to 5% increment of the gross salary paid as at 31st december, 2020 or as adjusted in accordance 
with 6 (i) above shall be added to the salaries of such employees with effect from 01st January 2021, excluding 
the employees covered under 6 (iv) (a) above.
(v)  every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such Grade for a period 
of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 7% increment calculated on the gross 
salary as at 31st december 2021, with effect from 01st January 2022 and proportionately for service less than 
twelve (12) completed months at the rate of one-twelfth (1/12th) of such increase in respect of each completed 
month of service.
(vi)  every employee in employment in a Grade covered by this Agreement and having served in such Grade for a 
period of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 8% increment calculated in 
the gross salary as at 31st december 2022 with effect from 01st January, 2023 and proportionately for service 
less than twelve (12) completed months at the rate of one-twelfth (1/12th) of such increase in respect of each 
completed month of service.
(vii)  employees will not be entitled to receive any payments by way of a cost of Living Allowance.
7. Payments and Reimbursements
(a) Travelling Payment
 each employee shall be entitled to receive a travelling payment of rs. 4,000/- per month.
(b) holiday Incentive
 each employee shall be entitled to receive a holiday incentive as stipulated below, on account of expenses incurred
 on a holiday during not less than ten consecutive days of annual leave taken in the following years:
 Year 2021 - rs. 33,200/-
 Year 2022 - rs. 38,000/-
 Year 2023 - rs. 38,000/-
(c) Disturbance Payment
 An employee who will be required to report to work at the following times will be entitled to a disturbance Payment
 as follows:
 Before 4:00 a.m.  -  rs. 950/-
 Before 5:00 a.m.  -  rs. 850/-
 Before 6:00 a.m.  - rs. 750/-
 Before 7:00 a.m. - rs. 600/-
 Before 7:30 a.m. - rs. 400/-
8. Performance Increments /Date
(a) The annual increment due to an employee will be determined in terms of the relevant grading in the annual  
perfomance appraisal applicable to such employees and the increment granted shall be as follows:
(i)  satisfactory performance  -  rs. 600/-
(ii) Good performance  -  rs. 850/-
(iii) superior performance  - rs. 1,250/-
(iv) outstanding performance  -  rs. 1,500/-
The Performance increment of rs. 600/- will be granted unless it is otherwise withheld on account of disciplinary
reasons.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
5A
(b) The effective dates of annual increments of employees, is subject to the period during which their annual increment
 falls due which will be as follows :
 (i) 01st January
 (ii) 01st April
 (iii) 01st July
 (iv) 01st october
 
9. Career Progression Scheme for Secretatrial Assistants
(1) Promotion from Grade I to Grade II
 (a) A secretarial Assistant who completes seven years in secretarial Assistant Grade I or a combination of seven 
years as a stenographer and a secretarial Assistant, provided she has a minimum of four years experience as a 
secretarial Assistant, shall be promoted to Grade II after an application made by the employee. however, that 
promotion to Grade II will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, 
attendance and punctuality, or
 (b) employees who sit and successfully pass the examination of the Academy for Administrative Professionals or 
the Internal Efficiency Bar/Aptitude Test will be considered for placement on Grade II, subject to the conditions 
referred to at (i) and (ii) hereunder, provided, however, that their past record of overall performance, attendance 
and conduct as assessed by the Bank justifies such consideration.
(i) on successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice conducted by the 
Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/Aptitude Test set by the Bank plus 
five completed years of service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade I, or
(ii) on successful completion of the part II of the examination of the diploma in secretarial Adminstrative 
Practice stage II conducted by the Academy for Administrative Professionals plus four completed years 
of service in the secretarial Assistant Grade I.
 (c) on promotion to Grade II an employee shall receive not less than the value of two increments (2) in Grade I 
entitled for “satisfactory” rating when placed in Grade II.
(2) Promotion from Grade II to Grade III
The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a secretarial Assistant from Grade II to III after an application 
made by the employee. however, that promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently 
good record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
 (a) Any secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven years in Grade II shall be placed on Grade III, or
 (b) on successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage I conducted by 
the Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/ Aptitude Test set by the Bank plus 
five completed years of service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade II, or
 (c) on successful completion of the diploma in secretarial Administrative Practice stage II conducted by the 
Academy for Administrative Professionals plus four complete years of service in secretarial Assistant Grade II.
 (d) on promotion to Grade III an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less 
than the value of two increments in Grade II, entitled for “satisfactory” rating. 
(3) Promotion from Grade III to Grade IV
 The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a secretarial Assistant from Grade III to Iv  after an 
application made by the employee. however, that promotion to Grade Iv will not be automatic but will depend on 
a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
6A
 (a) Any secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven years in Grade III shall be placed on Grade Iv, or
 (b) on successful completion of the diploma in secretarial Administrative Practice stage II conducted by the 
Academy for Administrative Professionals plus four complete years of service in secretarial Assistant Grade 
III, or
 (c) On successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage I conducted 
by the Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/Aptitude Test set by the Bank, 
together with five completed years of service in Grade III.
 (d) on promotion to Grade Iv  an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less 
than the value of two increments on Grade III entitled for “satisfactory” rating.
10. Re-designation of Secretarial Assistants to Junior Executive Assistant Grade
A secretarial Assistant shall be considered for re- designation as Junior executive Assistant provided he/she possesses 
the following eligibility requirements :
 (a) Three years combined service in both Typist and secretarial Assistant Grades and passing the Intermediate in 
Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking and Finance/Intermediate in applied Banking and Finance of the 
Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka.
 (b) on completion of the Final examination - diploma in Banking and Finance/diploma in Applied Banking and 
Finance of the Institue of Bankers of sri Lanka.
 (c) Six years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial Assistant Grades and the relevant qualifications for 
entry as a Junior executive Assistant.
 (d) Six years combined service in both Typist and Secretrial Assistant Grade without the requisite qualifications 
for entry as a Junior executive Assistant but subject to success at a written examination and IT practical test 
conducted by the Bank or on confimation from the respective Branch Managers/Heads of Departments that 
the employee concerned is suitable for re-designation and has been performing duties of a Junior executive 
Assistant for four consecutive years and the successful completion of the practical test and interview conducted 
by the Bank.
Provided that where an employee is promoted as a Junior executive Assistant under sub clause (a) above, he/she shall 
have three years and the required qualifications or have six years service as a Junior Executive Assistant to be considered 
for promotion thereafter.
11. Provident Fund
 (a) Rate of Contribution
  The rates if contribution to the Provident Fund shall be;
  Bank’s contribution - 12% (Twelve per cent) *of salary
  employee’s contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
  * Provided however, any increase to the employers’ contribution in terms of the ePF Act, No. 15 of 1958 as 
amended and any direction in furtherance to that by the authorities shall be adopted by the Bank.
Provident Fund contributions shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at clause 5 hereof subject to the rules of 
the Provident Fund.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
7A
 (b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by Bank
  Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid 
on 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/- published by the N.S.B. prevailing as at the 01st January 
for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the  01st July for the second half of the year on the net 
Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
 (c) Deficiency in Bank’s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension 
  Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank and such employee is not entitled to a pension 
or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference between 
the Bank’s contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate of 
contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the employees’ Provident Fund Act and its amendments 
from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the Employer on behalf of such Employee. Such deficiency 
will be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basic 
salary actually contributed by the Bank up to 31st march 1992.
 From 01.01.1971 to 31.12.1980  - 9% of gross salary
 From 01.01.1981 onwards  - 12% of gross salary
  Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which 
was less than 10% of basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
12. Terminal Benefits
(a) Pensions 
 An employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his/her letter of appointment to the position of Junior 
executive Assistant with the Bank, shall upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank and who is in the permanent 
employement of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous 
service (excluding absence/leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the following basis :                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                      
(i).  Employees opting to retire at 55 years
  Number of completed years of   monthly Gross salary
 Pensionable service (subject to a  
x payable for the month
 maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years  of retirement
  55
(ii). Employees opting to retire at 60 years
  Number of completed years of   monthly Gross salary
 Pensionable service (subject to a  x payable for the month
 maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years  of retirement
  60 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
(b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/Disability  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
An employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his letter of appointment to the position of Junior 
executive Assistant with the Bank and who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result 
of infirmity/disability, as certified by the Bank’s  Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and 
who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
8A
of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension computed 
on the same basis referred to at clause 12(a) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to 
compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or an Award of court, such employee shall only 
be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provider further, that in the 
case of an employee whose premature retirement occured in consequence of an accident which entitled him to 
compensation, the pre-acceptance of pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in 
subsequently claiming any balance compensation under any written law.
(c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in expressed terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion 
opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other payments arising there from. 
The payment will be computed on the following basis :
(i).  Employees opting to retire at 55 years
  Number of completed years of   monthly Gross salary
 Pensionable service (subject to a  
x payable for the month
 maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years  of retirement
  
(ii). Employees opting to retire at 60 years
  Number of completed years of   monthly Gross salary
 Pensionable service (subject to a  
x payable for the month
 maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years  of retirement
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank 
on account of the cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension deficiency (if any), in the Bank’s 
contribution to Provident Fund to an employee not paid a pension in terms of clause 12.
(d) Death Gratuity 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
On the death of an Employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the 
Bank will make a compassionate payment of two months gross salary for each year of completed service subject 
to a minimum of nine months’ gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be 
determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the 
death of an Employee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to 
a confirmed Employee provided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon 
a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed Employee. 
The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary. 
 Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents 
shall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation 
under any laws in force at the  time on account of employees’ compensation or under any other law or an 
Award of court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occured in 
consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents 
in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
9A
(e) Commuted Pension 
 (i).  An employee entitled to a pension in terms of (a) and (b) above, may at the time of retirement exercise 
the option to accept a sum of 25% of his monthly pension multiplied by one hundered and twenty (120) 
by way of a lump sum.
 (ii).  Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable 
to him during the first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have been 
entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the ten 
years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly pension 
then being paid.  
(f) Alternate Terminal Benefit Plan 
 (i).  An Employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Benefit Plan under the Re-structured Pension Scheme 
offered by the bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed retirement age nor 
will such Employee be entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built-in to the terminal benefits lump-
sum payable under the re-stuctured shceme at the time of retirement/separation. 
 (ii). Further, as per the re-structured Pension scheme, in the event of early separation prior to retirement 
(excluding death) an employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumulated amount in the Defined 
contribution Fund Account, subject to rules of the Fund on forfeiture. 
 (iii). however, in the event of death of an eligible employee whilst in service, the full accumulation will be 
released to the nominated party/parties or legal heirs. 
(g) Defined Contribution Pension Fund (DCP Fund)
 (i).  Defined Contribution Pension Fund is a definite payment in the form of a lump sum, established and 
constituted to provide and maintain superannuation benefits to an eligible employee in lieu of the entitled 
gratuity payments under the Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983 at the time of his retirement or separation from 
service.
 (ii). “eligible employee”, is a regular full time employee in the Bank’s service, who joined the Bank after 
01.01.2000 as a Banking Trainee or to any other grade in the permanent cadre of the Bank, and includes 
the three employees namely, mrs. A.c. hettiarachchi (02142), mr. v. s. Goonetillake (02409) and mr. 
h.d.s.c. Perera (03229), but not entitled for the re-structured Pension/Pension sheme of the Bank and 
who has a period of service of not less than five completed years of actual service.
 (iii). Temporary employees on a fixed term contract or a pensioner who has been re-employed by the Bank 
after retirement are excluded from the above mentioned dcP Fund. 
 (iv). In the absence of a nomination of a Nominee or Nominees, legal heirs of an eligible employee shall be 
entitled to receive dcP Fund balance in the form of a commuted Pension lying to the credited in the 
name of the eligible employee. 
13. Medical Scheme
 (i).   Reimbursement of Medical Expenses - (Non-hospitalisation Expenses)
  The Bank will reimburse an employee up to a maximum of rs. 34,500/- for the year 2021 and rs. 45,000/- 
for the year 2022 and 2023 in  respect of medical expenditure incurred by him/ her on his/her own behalf 
or on behalf of his/her spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 21 in respect of routine 
non-hospitalisation/ non-surgical and specialist treatment. 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
10A
An employee who has a differently-abled child/children is entitled to receive an amount of rs. 70,000/- per 
annum as medical expenses in adddition to the amount specified above, subject to the recommendation 
of the Medical Board and registration with the Compensation and Benefits Unit of the Bank.
 (ii).   Special Non-hospitalisation and Non-Surgical Expenditure
  The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum as given below per annum 
on account of special non-hospitalisation and non- surgical expenses covering the following items only 
incurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members in keeping with existing 
practice:
(a) spectacles   -  rs. 30,000/-
(b) dentures/Nerve Filling/root Filling  -  rs. 25,000/-
(c) hearing Aids    -  rs. 50,000/-
   subject to valid documentation as detailed in (iv) hereunder, and subject to the provisions that no claim is 
made in relation to any particular item more than once in three years other than in the case of employees 
over the age of 40 years who will be entitled to reimbursements on account of spectacles once in two 
years. In respect of spectacles, it must be supported by a prescription from a medical eye specialist.
 (iii). Surgical and hospitalisation Expenditure
  employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private) 
expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spause and unmarried legitimate children under 21 years 
of age subject to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to the 
following limits per annum :
(a) hospital or Nursing room charges :
  daily Limit   -  rs. 18,000/-
 Government hospital Payment    -  rs. 6,000/-
  The Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event the patient has undergone intensive care 
treatment.
(b) emergency Treatment Travel
  expenses (maximum)  -  rs. 4,500/-
 * The rate is rs. 45/- per kilometer
(c) overall limit for any one year  - rs. 390,000/-
  Where the employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body medical 
checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of rs. 25,000/- per 
annum in addition to this entitlement.
  Where the employee’s spouse is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full 
body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of  
rs. 25,000/- per annum, under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
 (iv). General
  If both husband and Wife are employees, and the bills pertaining to the surgical and hospitalisation 
expenditure exceeds the limit of one employee, the balance to be paid out of the spouse’s entitlement 
subject to a maximum of 50% of the full entitlement/available limit. 
All medical claims mentioned above, except for reimbursement of medical expenses for Non-
hospitalisation expenses shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. 
Prescriptions or doctor’s bills shall be from a registered medical Practitioner.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
11A
The schedule II hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
14. Retirement
(a) The age of retirement shall be 60 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its employees, 
and on reaching the age of 60, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto retire and 
cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any 
notice of such retirement.
(b) An employee may also be retired within a period of 05 years prior to his retirement age and be eligible for 
retirement benefits if he has ten (10) or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the Employee, 
his union and the employer that he should be given such concession subject to the condition that the refusal by 
any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
15. Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to 
every employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the 
month of december in respect of one complete year of service meaning January to december an proportionately 
for service less than one year at the rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of 
service. however, if an employee is terminated/resigned from services before completion of one year meaning 
January to december, he is not entitled for any bonus. 
16. Probation
         
every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of six months probation subject to the right of the 
Bank to extend the period of probation by a period of three months.
17. Release of Parent Union Office Bearers
         
An Office Bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work without payment of any salary, allowance or 
any other payment of whatever nature on the following basis :
(a)  The total number of Office Bearers so released shall not exceed one
(b)  No employee shall be released for more than two years on a single occasion during a period of six (6) 
years.
(c)  On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall receive 
incremental credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights 
under clause 11 hereof.
18. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and Central Committee Members
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at any 
one given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present 
at inquiries before the Labour department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial courts, and with the Bank 
management - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
(b) It is agreed that central committee members of the union will be permitted to leave at 12.00 noon on 12 days 
in a year for central committee meetings. In the case of outstation central committee members, they would be 
permitted leave for the whole day for 12 central committee meetings in a year. For this purpose an outstation 
Branch is one situated more than thirty (30) miles from colombo.
(c) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to central committee members 
to attend Parent union central committee meetings.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
12A
(d) It is agreed that executive committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the executive 
committee of the union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
(e) It is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of pay up to a maximum of one day, once in two years, all 
employees in the membership of the central committee of the union and the union Branch delegates in the 
Bank, to attend the National delegates conference of the union provided however, that the Bank is given 
two weeks written notice of the conference and not more than one employee attached to any single Branch/
department of the Bank is so released.
19. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches
The Bank shall permit Office Bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leave to visit outstation branches 
calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such Branch, i.e., if there are x branches the total 
number of days paid leave available shall also be x. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more 
than thirty (30) miles from colombo.
20. Special Payments/Reimbursments
(a) Out of Pocket Payment
An employee required to work outside normal working hours on a weekday will be entitled to an out of Pocket 
Payment as detailed below for each completed hour up to a maximum of 4 hours :
 during the year 2021 - rs. 425/-
 during the year 2022 - rs. 450/-
 during the year 2023 - rs. 475/-
An employee, working on a weekday after 8.30 p.m. shall be entitled to a dinner Payment of rs. 450/-.
(b) Work on holidays
 An employee will be entitled to an out of Pocket Payment per hour as detailed below during work on holidays, 
provided such employee has completed a minimum of 3 hours of work. This entitlement is available up to a 
maximum of 10 hours.
  during the year 2021 - rs. 550/-
  during the year 2022 - rs. 580-
  during the year 2023 - rs. 620/-
 No employee will be entitled to a separate meal/dinner Payment for work on holidays.
(c) Minicom Centers/Saturday Banking/365 Days Banking
 An employee will be entitled to an out of Pocket Payment per hour as detailed below during work on holidays, 
provided such employee has completed a minimum of 3 hours of work. This entitlement is available up to 
maximum of 10 hours;
  during the year 2021 - rs. 575/-
  during the year 2022 - rs. 600/-
  during the year 2023 - rs. 650/-
 In the event a Branch not carrying out saturday or 365 day Banking, is directed by the Bank to be opened for 
business on a holiday, employees who report at the Branch on account thereof will also be entitled to claim out 
of Pocket Payment as specified above.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
13A
 In respect of staff working at minicoms the maximum number of hours for the purpose of this payment shall 
be eleven (11) instead of ten (10) hours referred to above.
 No employee will be entitled to a separate meal/dinner Payment for work on weekends/holidays.
 Special Payment
 (i) employees assigned to supermarket outlets will be entitled for a special payment of rs. 7,250/- per month.
 (ii) employees assigned to minicom Branches, will be entitled for a special payment of rs. 3,000/- per month.
The payment mentioned in (ii) above will be applicable to locations ;
Where such branch is open to customers on hours which are different to the normal working hours of the Bank;  
i.e. from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on weekdays
Where such branch is located in a separate premises other than a supermarket, but is not provided with separate 
wash rooms/lunch rooms.
Where such branch is located in a standalone building, and provided with separate wash rooms/lunch rooms.
 As at the time of signing of this collective Agreement, such minicom Branches are Akurana, Beruwala, 
Bokundara, Ja-ela, katubedda, katugastota, katukurunda, kirulapone, kurunegala, Nawala, ratnapura.
(d) Shift Payment (IT Department /Card Centre/ Digital Banking unit/BIA Arrival and Departure)
 
 Weekdays (additional shift)
An employee having to work additional hours on weekdays will be entitled to a shift Payment as detailed 
below per each completed hour ;
 during the year 2021 - rs. 450/-
 during the year 2022 - rs. 475/-
 during the year 2023 - rs. 500/-
An employee, working on a weekday after 8.30 p.m. shall be entitled to a dinner Payment of rs. 450/-
No other payment will be applicable in addition to the above. however, any other allowances/ payments such as 
the disturbance Allowance  dinner Allowance Travelling Payment on call Allowance and combined Allowance 
will be paid to employees where applicable.
 holidays (day shift)
An employee having to work on holidays will be entitled to a shift Payment as detailed below per each 
completed hour;
 during the year 2021 - rs. 575/-
 during the year 2022 - rs. 600/-
 during the year 2023 - rs. 650/-
No other payment will be applicable in addition to the above. however, any other allowances/payments such 
as the disturbance Allowance, dinner Allowance, Travelling Payment, on - call Allowance and combined 
Allowance will be paid to employees where applicable.
 holidays (night shift)
An employee will be entitled to a shift Payment as detailed below per each completed hour during night work 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
14A
on holidays ;
 during the year 2021 - rs. 600/-
 during the year 2022 - rs. 625/-
 during the year 2023 - rs. 675/-
 Night shift Payment (weekdays/weekends)
An employee required to work during nights, will be entitled to a Night shift Payment of rs. 800/- per night 
in addition to the above.
21. Professional Association Membership
 (i).   In respect of full membership in the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka or the Indian Institute of Banking 
and Finance, the Bank will reimburse the employee the sum paid by way of annual subscription.
 (ii). In respect of full membership in the Institute of Bankers of sri Lanka or the Indian Institute of Banking 
and Finance, the Bank will reimburse the employee the sum paid by way of annual subscription.
 (iii). Provided also, in the event of the Bank requiring an Employee to obtain any qualifications of a recognized 
professional organization, other than Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, and the Employee fulfils such 
requirement, the Bank shall pay subject to the recommendation of the respective member of the corporate 
management and the approval of deputy General manager - human resource management the cost of 
such course/examination as well as annual subscription as relevant on behalf of such employee to such 
professional organization.
22. Leave 
 An employee will be entitled to leave as applicable to the executive staff of the Bank. i.e. 7 days of casual Leave, 24 
days of medical Leave and one calendar month (30 days) of Annual Leave, subject to the procedure of granting of the 
said leave.
(a) Annual Leave
(i) entitlement
In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to december) during which an 
employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year up to 
one calendar month of paid leave. he shall avail himself of at least 10 days out of the calendar month 
on successive days and shall in respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 
calendar month.
(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the Employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows:
(a) The full annual holiday of one calendar month if his employment commenced on or after 01
st January 
but before 01st April.
(b) A holiday of 21 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 01st April but before 01st July.
(c) A holiday of 15 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 01 st July but before 01 st 
october, and
(d) A holiday of 08 calendar days if his employement commenced on or after 01st october.
(iii) Availment
The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee’s application, 
giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iv) Accumulation
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee at the rate of 10 days per annum exclusively for purposes 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
15A
referred hereunder up to a maximum period of 90 days :
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceeding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on an immediate family member who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.
(d) For marriage of the employee.
(e) on account of the death of an immediate family member.
(f) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the maternity Leave entitlement.
(g) For the confinement of a wife, by a male employee.
(h) Prolonged illness of the employee.
(v) Any annual leave not utilized by an employee up to a maximum of 10 days per year in excess of the number 
of 90 days accumulated as provided herein may be encashed by the employee on request at an amount 
equal to one day’s salary per each day unavailed of. 
(vi) Provided that in the case of (iv) (b) to (g) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the 
management.
(vii) Family member for purposes of (b) and (e) above shall mean spouse, children or parents. 
(b) Medical Leave
(i) entitlement
An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other 
holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported 
by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or
(b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Registered 
medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days in any one year.
(iii) Accumulation
 An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled to 
avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to the 
following provisions:
(a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed 
ninety (90) days, and
(b) the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalisation 
or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,
(c) where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such 
as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalisation the employer may permit to set off any further 
absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken 
for such earlier prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or 
take any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a 
Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for 
absence of an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any 
weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application 
and/or reason for absence of the employee.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
16A
(c) Casual Leave
An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment 
whereof not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall  not preceed 
or follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the 
reason for such absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not 
have been foreseen by such employee.
(d) Maternity Leave
The leave that an employee is entitled to in this regard shall be governed as per the provisions of the shop 
and Office Employees’ Act. However, where a female Employee has given birth to twins/triplets/ other 
multiple births upon her first confinement, she will be entitled to enhanced maternity leave of 84 working 
days in respect of her next confinement, provided it is a live birth.
23. Suspension
 
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the provisions 
of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months and full 
pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation, 
the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded 
within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary during his suspension 
beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee’s own 
conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold 
or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will  not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding 
the inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the 
employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police custody or where 
the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will 
not receive full pay in these circumstances.
24. Disciplinary Procedure
 
Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the case of oral warning, 
letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply;
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended or not, the employee shall be furnished with a show 
cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause letter 
shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in writing 
to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the 
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable, 
the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation 
and where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time as 
is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to  the employee to show cause 
and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the emplooyee 
and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to such 
employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
17A
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not 
satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub-clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the 
charges against such employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the 
date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for 
reasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of 
unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch union of the same Grade or of a higher Grade than the accused 
employee or on Office Bearer of the Branch Union irrespecitve of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to 
itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) to defend the accused 
employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal qualification. The 
defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this account. The Bank will 
further allow another member of the Branch union to be present at the inquiry as an observer without loss 
of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name of the 
defending employee an observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement of 
the inquiry. The defending employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee and 
cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The Inquiring Officer will  be entitled to require a defending employee 
or observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the defending employee or observer shall 
forthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a defending employee or observer from the whole or 
any part of an inqiury for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor 
the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings  but he may 
answer any question which the Inquiring Officer may ask him.
(g) The union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the observer and 
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and a 
copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a ture copy 
of such proceedings before the Inquiring Officer.
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as 
well.
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in 
writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days 
except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee 
shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and in inference adverse to the employee shall be 
drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of 
the following circumstances :
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show 
cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee 
had no cause to show.
(ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the union’s right to request the 
employer thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within 
twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the puhishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding 
on the Bank and the employee and the union, unless the employee or the union shall within three (3) months 
from the date on which the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in 
respect of such findings and/or punishment.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
18A
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes or order that -
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall take 
effect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that 
the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the 
employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith 
and shall be paid the entirely of his salary in repsect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the 
right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which any include the whole or 
part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-caluses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held 
in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other 
authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that ciriminal charges are pending against the 
employee.
25. Technology
 (i) schedule III hereto contains matters relating to new computer Based Banking Technology agreed upon between the 
parties.
 (ii) The union will  be free to make representations on metters relating to the introduction of new computer Based Banking 
Technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) above.
 (iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on matters 
relating to computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard and any 
representations/dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under the laws of 
sri Lanka.
 (iv) It is agreed that any matter reaised  by the union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be referred 
to the monitoring committee set up under the collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the monitoring 
committee not being able to satisfy the union, such matter shall be referred to the department of health and safety 
of the Labour department and the recommendation given by the doctor-in-charge shall be accepted by both parties 
and where changes are necessary in terms of such recommendation the monitoring committee shall prevail on the 
Bank concerned to implement such changes.
26. Trade union Action
 (a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement 
 (i) The union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of 
Trade union action including go-show, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action 
against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement. however, a dispute arising out of a failed  
negotioation for a fresh collective Agreement after 31st day of december 2023, cannot be construed interpreted 
and/or implied by the employer as a dispute related to this Agreement.
 (ii) In the event there been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh 
collective Agreement aforesaid and if the parent union decides to resort to any form of trade union action, the 
parent union shall give at least fourteen (14) days’ notice in writing to the Bank, the employers’ Federation of 
ceylon and the commissioner General of Labour before the date of such trade union action. however such notice 
shall not be given prior to 31st march 2024.
(b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement
 
  The union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agrement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade 
union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against 
the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until -

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
19A
(i) The Branch union has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank, 
at which stage the Branch union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the 
Parent union (the ceylon Bank employees’ union). 
(ii) The Parent union (the ceylon Bank employees’ union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all 
forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/or the employers’ Federation of 
ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent union has to give 
notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement 
of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. such notice shall be given to the Bank, the 
employers’ Federation of ceylon and to the commissioner of Labour.
27. union Check-off Facilities
 
during the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the union has not less than forty (40) percent 
membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, 
however, that the Bank reseerves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the union 
violating any of the provisions of this collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
28. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement
(i) Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is being 
implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effect of computer technology change such 
matter shall be dealt with by a monitoring committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from 
the Bank and two representatives from the union. The Bank or the union may request that a matter be placed 
before the monitoring committee by communication addressed to the employers’ Federation of ceylon setting 
out the cause of complaint. 
(ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under section 3 
of the Industrial disputes Act, 1950 as amended.
29. Consequences of Termination of Agreement
On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benifits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union 
and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
30. Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following 
meanings:
Bank : commercial Bank of ceylon PLc.
Employee : An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer : commercial Bank of ceyon PLc.
Parent union/union : The ceylon Bank employees’ union
Branch union : The Branch union of the ceylon Bank employees’ union at commercial Bank 
of ceylon PLc.
Dispute : A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial dispute in the Industrial 
disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the 
Branch union of the ceylon Bank employees’ union at such respective Bank.
Salary : Shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
20A


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
21A
SChEDuLE  I
Junior Executive Assistants and Allied Grades
Salary Range
 rs. 52,500/- per mensem rs. 170,000/- per mensem
SChEDuLE  II
1.  The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the Employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 13 of the 
Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to 
be included in this scheme. No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been 
enrolled.
2. (a) reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least 1 night’s stay in a hospital. Provided 
however, where the employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body medical 
checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of rs. 25,000/- per annum in 
addition to this entitlement.
 (b) Where the employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of full body medical 
checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of rs. 25,000/- per annum. 
under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
3.  The Bank must be notified promtly, and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission to 
hospital.
4. The Bank will be entitled to take out insurance policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the employee 
shall be required to make declaration (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal Forms) and submit 
documentation required by Bank/Insurers in proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to obtain reimbursement 
from the Insurance companies. The Bank will advise by internal circulars issued from time to time the documentary 
requirement and time limit within which documents should be submitted. Where an employee does not comply, he will 
not be entitled to benifits under this shceme.
5. Employees shall up hold the principle of uberima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this 
scheme and any deviation would disqualify the Employee from receiving any benefit under this scheme. In addition, the 
employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
6. (a) The Bank will circulate by internal circulars published from to time a list of hospitals/Nursing homes, expenses 
incurred at  which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and/or deletions to this list will 
also be made by internal circulars. 
 (b) If for reasons of geographical location of any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the 
Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of 
amendements to the list referred to in the preceding sub paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a named 
Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such applicaitons on a case by case basis and where deemed 
appropriate will grant such special dispensation provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall 
be final and conclusive.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
22A
 Exclusions
  The scheme shall not cover benefits/expenses ;
 (a) occasioned by or happening through
(i) The participation by employee or other eligible family members in war, Invasion, Act of Foreign enemy, 
hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil War, rebellion, revolution, Insurrection, mutiny or 
usurped power, military, popular rising or while serving as a member of any defense, Police, security 
Force, home Guard, etc.          
(ii) Attemted suicide, Alcoholism or any self inflicted injury/sickness.
(iii) Provided that if an employee has been employed for a continues period of 12 months, the Bank will pay 
the medical expenses incurred for any abnormality of maternity which is in excess of what a normal 
child birth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the 
extra cost involved, such as a letter from the doctor/hospital, will be on the employee who makes the 
claim.
(iv) earthquake, volcanic eruption or Tidal Wave.
 (b) Incurrred whilst travelling in an Air craft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard 
type of civil air craft operated by a recognized Air Line on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type 
of civil air craft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air charter company or owned by a 
Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.
 (c) In respect of eye test or dental treatment.
 (d) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
7. The benefits under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words ‘any one year’ in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement 
shall be deemed to be the period 1st January to 31st december. In the case of employees who join during the course of a 
year the overall limit and the event limit up to the period ending the next 31st december will be prorated to the number 
of full monthes of service up to 31st december.
8. In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the entitlement 
of either or both years as applicable.
SChEDuLE  III
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new computer Based Banking Technology by 
the Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.
1.  Wherever practical the Bank will endeavor to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of vdu/Non vdu tasks 
which seek to provide variation in visual and in mental demands upon the operator.
2. The work load of operators of vdus will be regularly revived by the management for the purpose of ensuring proper 
safety and effectiveness of the operations.
3. The Bank agrees to provide vdu operator with adequate training within the parameters of their Job description to 
ensure the safety and health of employees.
4. (a) In selecting vdus the Bank will attempt to obtain the equipment which will ensure the following ;
 (i) screens that give clear stable images.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.03.2022
23A
 (ii) Proper sitting of key Boards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improve maneverability.
 (iii) equipment which is quiet in operation so the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
 (b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the vdus.
 (c) The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, key boards and provide facilities for placing 
documents and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.
 (d) The Bank will endeavor to provide lighting facility to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of vdus.
 (e) employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the management of the Bank, is the operation of a vdu, 
will be permitted to visit at the cost of the Bank and optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined 
prior to his commencing employement on a vdu. In the event of an adverse report being obtained from the optician, 
the employee should inform the Bank immediately.
 (f) Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the management of the bank, is the operation 
of a VDU and he is already using spectacles when he is call upon to operate a VDU for the first time he will be 
permitted, at the expense of the Bank to be examined by an optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose of 
obtaining and opinion as to whether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examination and 
modification to the lenses if necessary will be borne by the Bank on the following basis ;
(i) The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the medical scheme 
herein.
(ii) The cost modification of the lenses will be met with in Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such cost should 
exceed the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional coast as well.
5. Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a data entry operator causes a certin amount of strain, the 
Bank is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours as long as 
there is no disruption of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
6.  The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the management 
of the Bank, is operating a vdu. Provided however, the union will be entitled to make representations as to whether 
the main or primary function is the operation of a vdu subject to there being no industrial dispute raised on this issue.
7. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in 
consequence of the introduction of new computer Based Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any 
one or more of the following options.
(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections/departments to perform work which is 
within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation 
to such employees. This option referes to a transfer than within the scope of employment, which the Bank would 
under normal circumstances be entitled to effect.
(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the employer considers it necessary.
(c) The Bank will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this 
Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employement on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not 
amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this schedule. 
8.  For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant 
consequent upon the introduction of new computer Based Banking Technology. It will not include a situation where 
such redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms of mutually agreed upon.
eoG 04 - 1026
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.