

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.  6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 29,  2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 26th September, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
NA WALAPITIYA  DHARUL  ULOOM  AL
HASHIMIYA  ARABIC  COLLEGE
(INCORPORATION) ACT,  N O . 33  OF  2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006
1
Preamble.
[Certified on 26th September, 2006]
L. D. — O. Inc. 8/2004
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  NAW ALAPITIY A DHARUL  ULOOM  AL
H ASHIMIY A ARABIC  COLLEGE
WHEREAS a college known as “Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom
Al Hashimiya Arabic College” has heretofore been formed in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
college, according to the rules agreed to by the Board of
Management of the College :
AND WHEREAS the said college has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for public advantage to grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Nawalapitiya Dharul
Uloom  Al Hashimiya Arabic College (Incorporation) Act,
No. 33 of 2006.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya Arabic College
(hereinafter referred to as the “College”) and shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession under the name and style of “the Nawalapitiya
Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya Arabic College” (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation of
Nawalapitiya
Dharul Uloom Al
Hashimiya
Arabic College.
Short title

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to produce Islamic Theologists who are competent
to lead the community under the Islamic law of
“Shariaa” on all spheres of life ;
(b) to produce “Hafidhs” who have learnt the Holy
Quran by heart;
(c) to protect Islam;
(d) to promote and foster unity within the Islamic
community and find solutions of problems of such
community;
(e) to promote the policies of “Sunnath Wal Jamaath”
within the Islamic community;
(f) to promote and foster the policies of the “Sunnath
wal Jamaath” based on holy propagation of
“Thableegu” with the “Fikh” (concepts of the School
of Thought) laws of the “Shafiee Madhhab” and the
belif in “Al Ashariya”; and
(g) to do all such acts and things as are in the opinion of
the Corporation connected to any of the above and
beneficial to the growth of the College.
4. (1) The management, control and administrations of
the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act  be
administered by a Board of Management consisting of eleven
members elected in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation from among persons who shall be leaders in the
community and theologians, including the President, vice
President, two joint Secretaries, the Treasurer, the Assistant
Secretary, the Assistant Treasurer and Four Committee
members. One of the Joint Secretaries shall be a teacher in the
college.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006
3
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of Management of the College holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act and which shall hold office until a new Board of
Management is elected in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation.
(3) The office bearers of the Corporation shall hold office
for a term of one year and be eligible for re-election;
5. A committee member shall—
(a) be a person who lives within the bounds of the
Islamic law of “Shariaa”;
(b) be a person of good character and will be respected
by the Islamic Community; and
(c) be a person who respects the law of “Shariaa” and
the Theologians.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, as are necessary or desirable
for the promotion of furtherance of the objects of the
corporation or any one of them, including the power to open,
operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise any money
with or without security, to receive or collect grants and
donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting and by the vote of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the admission, resignation and expulsion of
members of the Corporation;
Qualifications
of the
committee
members.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006
(b) election of office bearers;
(c) powers, duties and functions of the Board of
Directors and office-bearers of the Corporation;
(d) the conduct of meetings of the Board of
Management and the procedures to be followed at
such meetings and the quorum of such meetings;
(e) appointment of employees of the Corporation and
their duties and functions; and the code of conduct
to be observed by such employees;
(f) courses of studies to be conducted, syllabuses of
studies, examinations and award of certificates, in
so far as such rules do not conflict with the national
or provincial education policy;”
(g) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds; and
(h) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the attainment of its objects.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
(3) Any rule  made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in the manner as a rule may be
made under subsection (1).
8. All debts and liabilities of the College existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
College on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable to
the College.

<!-- page 6 -->

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006
5
9. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
persons duly authorized by the Board, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
subscription, gift, grant, testamentary disposition or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act, and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts of
the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by rules prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members.
13. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the republic or of any body politic or corporate
or any other person.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Nawalapitiya Dharul Uloom Al Hashimiya
Arabic College (Incorporation) Act, No. 33 of 2006
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.