

<!-- page 1 -->

PART 1: SECTION (1) - GENERAL
PILGRIMAGES    ORDINANCE
REGULATIONS  made by the  Minster of Home Affairs in terms of section 2 of Pilgimages Ordinance. (Chap. 175).
                                                                                                           WAJIRA ABEWARDHANA,
Minister of Home Affairs.
Ministry of Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
31st December,  2017.
REGULATIONS
01. These regulations may be cited as the regulation of  Lenten Season annually held in Calvary Shrine, (St. Anne's
Church), Hiniduma, Galle.
02. In these regulations
" Camp area" means the area described in the schedule.
" District Secretary/Government  Agent" means the Government Agent of Galle administrative district and it also
includes any officer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4.
" Medical Officer" means the Health Midical officer in charge of the camp area.
" Pilgrim" means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose.
" Police Officer" includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area.
" Public Health Inspector" means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
wxl 2057$33 - 2018 fmnrjdß ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'02'09
No. 2057/ 33 – FRIDA Y, FEBRUAR Y 09, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
Government Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - G 27084 - 12 (02/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'02'092  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  09.02.2018
3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages Season annually held in Calvary Shrine (St. Anne's Church), Hiniduma,
Galle belonged to the two Grama Niladhari Divisions namely: Hiniduma South and Malhathava in the Div isional
Secretariat Division, Thawalama withing  the Administrative District of Galle.
4. The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to authorize  any public  officer in writing to exercise
any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him  under this regulation.
5. I. The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walking to or from or
within the camp area.
II. No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with the instructions
issued to such police officer by the District Secretary/Government Agent for the exercise of powers vested  in him
under the Para (1) of this regulation.
6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the District
Secrtary/Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are brought and cattle are
driven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7.
7. (1) The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places inside the
camp area.
(a) Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
(b) Places for leaving carts and cattle.
(c) Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims.
(d) Place to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick.
(e) Places for begging and solicitation for charity.
(f) Places for displaying certain items for sale.
(g) Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes.
(h) Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing.
(i) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking  water and other places providing
such  facilities.
(j) Places for other purposes the District Secretary/Government Agent may deem necessary.
(2)It the District Secretary/Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any places reserved or pro vided for
certain purpose under Para (I) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or name board stating the purpose
for which the place is reserved.
(3)(I) In case of any  place is reserved of provided for certain purpose under Para (I), that place shall strictly be used for
such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.
8. If the District Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer is  of the view that it is required to add chlorine to any
tank, wells,water holes or reservoir situated in the camp area or it is required to be closed for prevention of diseases,the
District Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer  shall have the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or make  a new
addition to  existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp area, reserved or
provided for certain purpose under rgulation 7, except on a permit issued by the District Secretary/Government Agent
for the relevant purpose and in accordnace with the conditions stipulated in such permit.
(2)If any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make a new addition
to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery of a written notice
to that person, it is lawful for the District Secretay/Government Agent to order to remove or demoli sh such hut or

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'02'09 3 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  09.02.2018
building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may be.
(3)Where any person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act incompliance
with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where a doubt arises as to who is
the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to
cause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, construction or a new addition mad e to the
existing building or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent
to make arrangements to enter to any land  or premises together with labourers, equipment.
10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for the use
of pilgrims.
11. No one shall; contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp area.
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container  supplied by the
District Secretary/Government Agent for this purpose.
13. (1)District Seretary/Government Agent shall have the power to  stream  line  the  distribution  of  cooked meals  and
beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.
(2)No one shall disobey any fawful order to be carried out by Police Officer or a Pulbic Health Inspector in accordance
with instructions given by District Secretary/Government Agent in the exercise of powers delegated to him under
Para (I) of this regulation.
14. (1)Where any food or drink displayed or placed for a sale or distribution among the pilgrims within  the camp area is
found to be contaminated or harmful for human  consumption, the  District  Secretary/Government  Agent  or the
Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is  not  suitable  for  human
consumption.
(2)No one shall  sell or distribute within  the  camp area any  food  or  drink  announced  as not  suitable  for  human
Consumption under Para (I) of this regulation.
(3)It shall be lawful for any  Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling  or distribution and destroy any
food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (I) of the regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place in
the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained on a
license issued by the District Secretary/Government Agent and in accordance with conditions stipulat ed there in.
Every license shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of them Medical officer or any officer authorized by
such medical officer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, enating houses and Dansal and all furniture and equipment in
such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or  placed for slale or distribution in the camp area shall be kept in show
case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical officer or the Public Health
Inspector.
18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or easte disposed in cooking or other wastes shall be left
at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the container placed as provided in
regulation 19. However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been  found thrown over any place within the camp area
or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of baker, sweet stall, place where sweets
are made or  eating house or 'Dansal' the license holder of such place shall be deemed to have violated provisions in this
regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holder proves that all necessary precautions have been taken
and action has been taken with proper care to prevent the commission of such offence.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'02'094  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  09.02.2018
19 All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or con structions used
for commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage container with a capacity
of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden metal or plastic lid unless it is used
to dump or remove garbage.
20. (1) If the District Secrtary/Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are made,
eating house, Dansal or business place has been established or maintained in violation  of regulations 16, 17,18 or
19 in this section he  shall order the authority to close down such bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are made,
eating house, Dansal or business  place situated within the camp area or cancel any license with immediate effect if
any license has been issued for such place.
(2)Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or
business place  shall act in accordance with the  lawful directive made by the District Seretary/Government Agent
under chapter (1) of this section.
21. No person suffering from any infections disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.
22. (1)It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to orde the pilgrims to leave the camp area and for the
District Secrtary/Government Agent  to determine the route of leaving and mode of transport to be used for leaving
when on epidemic is spreading in such area.
(2)No person shall  act against any legal order given by the District Secrtary/Government Agent under Para (I) of this
section.
23. Every person suffring from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and wh en a person is
knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease,  every such
person shall report it to the Midical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer immediately.
2 4 .Any pe rson who is in charge  of any bake ry , place  whe re s we ets  are  made , re s taurant or Dans al within the  camp are a
s hall not allow any pers on whom he  knows  is  suffe ring from infe ctious dise as e s or contagious dis eas e to e nte r such
bake ry , place  we re  s we e ts  are  made , e ating hous e  or Dans al or participate  in the  dis tribution, s ale  or manufacture  of any
mate ria l or food or drink.
2 5 .A lice nse  hode r of any bakery , swe e t s tall, a place he re s we ets  are  made , eating house  of Dans al or an owne r or chie f
occupant of  any lodge  or pilgrims , re st s hall not allow any pe rs on s uffering from any infe ctious  dise as e  or contagious
dise as e  to stay at anytime  in s uch bakery , swe e t s tall, or place  whe re  swe e ts are made, e ating house, Dans al lodge or
pilgrims ' re st as  the  cas e  may be . Whe n it is  re ve ale d that a pers on s uffe ring from any infe ctious dis e as e  or contagious
dise as e  is  staying in s uch place  the licens e  holder or owne r or chie f occupant s hall re port it to the  Me dical Office r or
the  P ulbic he alth Office r or any P olice  Office r imme diate ly .
2 6 .No pe rs on s hall donate  or dis tribute  anyting for charity e ithe r by cah or by any othe r me ans  within the  camp a re a e xce pt
in a place  re s e rve d or provide d for be gging and s olicitation for  charity unde r re gulatin 7.
2 7 .No pe rs on s hall light fire  works  or a  us e  any fire  a rms  within the  ca mp a re a without a  writte n pe rmis s ion from the  Dis trict
S e cre tary/Governme nt Age nt.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'02'09 5 A
PART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  09.02.2018
28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed  in any place under regulation 7 or 10.
29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health  Inspector or any Police
Officer to,
(a)Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose  of  carrying  out any  regulation from  among  these
regulations and,
(b)To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or a name
board under rgulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the District Secrtary/Government Agent to cancel  the following at any time if  he considers that the
cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.
(a)Any permission given uder regulation 6 or regulation 27.
(b)Permit issued under regulation 9.
(c)Any license issued under regulation 15.
SCHEDULE I
The plot of land, in which the Calvary Shrine, Hiniduma, Galle is located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Hiniduma-South
of the Divisional Secretariat Division, Thawalama Within th Administative District, Galle.
Boundaries of aforesaid lands are as follows:
North   -    Jayanthi road, Hiniduma, Lands belonged to T. G . Wilbort, T. G . Klara, and T. G . Magrette.
South   -    St. Anne's College, Hiniduma and the Land belonged to Mr. Sarath Withanachchi.
East     -    St. Anne's Estate, Hiniduma.
West     -     Udugama - Dellawa Main road.
SCHEDULE II
The plot of land, in which the Calvary  Hill is located  in the Grama Niladhari Division of Malhatha va of the Divisional
Secretariat Division, Thawalama Within th Administative District, Galle.
Boundaries of aforesaid lands are as follows:
North   -       The lands belonged to N. H. Chandralatha, Jeri Wasudeva, Sarath Nanda, Subhani Karunarathna and
Peminda Rangana.
South   -       The lands belonged to Gunasena Wileg, H. A. Victor, Piyadasa Jayawardena, U. G .  Pradeep Lakmal, A. W.
Sithari Wickramasri Weerawardhana and Chaminda Sammpath Senanayake.
East     -       Pongiliya Road.
West     -        The lands belonged to Siril Edirisinghe, Sarath Vithanage, Dharmasiri Wijenayake, H. G. Elbort, Jayasekara
Wijeywickrama Somadas and H. L. Samantha.
02-849
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.