

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1829
1829
wxl 1"674 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'10'01
No. 1,674 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 01, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1832
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1836
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th October, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th
September, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-II(A) and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,673 of 24.09.2010 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1830
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1831
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1832
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Division and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd October, 2010 .
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
31st August, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Nochchiyagama Post of Registrar of Marriage (General/Kandyan) of District Secretary/ Addi. Registrar
Nuwaragampalatha Division and Births & Deaths of General
Nochchiyagama Division Secretary's Division in District Secretariat  Anuradhapura
Anuradhapura District
10-16
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1833
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th October, 2010 .
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
08th September, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Badulla Badulla Post of Medical Registrar of Birth, Deaths of District Secretary/ Additional,
Diyathalawa Base Hospital Registrar General
District Secretariat Badulla.
10-17
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND
WOMEN'S  AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified women citizens of Sri
Lanka to fill the vacancies in the Post of Women Development
Officer in the Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs.
01. General Qualifications :
(i) The applicant should be a women citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The applicant should not be less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years of age on the closing date of
applications. (The upper age limit is not applicable to
those already in Public Service).
(iii) As per the nature of the post, the applicant should be
within the above age limit.
(iv) The applicant should be of good character.
02. Education Qualifications.— The applicant should have
obtained a Degree from a recognized University (Those who have
offered psychology, Social Science, Economics and Law for the
Degree will be paid a special attention)
03. Salary Bracket and Salary Scale :
MN 4 –2006 A- Rs. 15,215 –10 x 215 –4 x 240 –7 x 320 –
15 x 360 – Rs. 25,965. Public Administration Circular
06/2006 (iv).
04. Methrod of Recruitments.— Qualified applicants will be
selected by a structured interview.
05. Conditions for Recruitment :
(a) The post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicants should contribute to the Widow's/Widower's
and Orphans pension scheme.
(b) The selected applicant should conform to provisions of
the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka and any existing laws and regulations and any
other laws and regulations that may be made in future
for the implementation of the Language Policy of the
government. All applicants will also be subject to the
provisions of the Establishment Code, Financial
Regulations and Departmental Orders and orders already
issued or that may be issued by the Government. Sections
10-12, Chapter 11 of the Establishment Code are
applicable.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1834
(c) The selected applicants should be Physically fit to serve
in any part of the Island. They should pass a government
medical test.
(d) The selected applicants are required to pass Efficiency
Bar Examination within three (03) years from the date of
appointment to the post.
(e) The selected applicants will be subject to a probation
period of three (03) years from the date of appointment
to the post.
(f) The selected applicants are subject to Regulations of the
Public Service Commission published in the Gazette on
20.02.2009.
(g) In accordance with the Language Policy of the
Government and with reference to Public Administration
Circular 07/2007 dated 29.08.2007 together with
Administration Circulars 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007 and
in terms of sub-section 12.11.1 and the subsequent
Subsection 12.12.2 of Chapter 11 of the Establishment
Code, every officer should obtain proficiency in the
second official language, prescribed to the relevant post
(level prescribed to the post) within five (05) years from
the date of appointment to the service/post.
(h) Failure to obtain proficiency within the prescribed period
will result in the suspension of salary increments of the
officers.
(a) The applicant selected for a particulars district
should serve at least three (03) years in that district.
6. Method of Applying :
(a) Applications prepared in A4 size paper, using both side,
according to the specimen form given in the notification,
should be sent by registered post, addressed to "Secretary,
Ministry of Child Development and Women Affairs
No. 175A, Nawala Road, Nugegoda" to reach him on or
before 18.10.2010.
(b) Those who are in Public Service at present should forward
their applications through the Heads of their respective
Departments. "Application for the Post of Women
Development Officer - 2010" should be written on the
top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the
application.
(i) Applications not duly filled in every respect,
without basic qualifications, and applications
received after the closing date will be rejected. The
receipt or the rejection of the application will be
not informed.
(ii) Since approval has been given to recruit only 53
applicants, appointments will be made on priority
of highest marks obtained at the interview taking
into consideration the basis of giving marks as
indicated below.
Particulars Marking Scheme Maximum T otal
for the interview marks marks
1. Educational Qualifications 15 27
(i) Having offered prescribed 10 15
Subjects for the Degreee
(ii) Other Education Qualifications 10 25
(Post Graduate/Post Graduate
Diploma/Certificate)
2. Other Qualifications
(i) Experience in women development 10 15
and Community Development work
(ii) Additional Qualification/Aptitude 05 15
3. Personality 10 10
——
Total Marks 50
===
07. If it reveals at any time before the appointment is given that
the applicant is not eligible for the post, the candidature will be
cancelled. If it reveals after the appointment is made that false
inform has been given or correct information has been concealed
purposely by the applicant, the appointee will be dismissed from
service.
08. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Child
Development and Women's Affairs will be final on issues pertaining
to matters in the notification calling for applications or any matters
not revealed their.
N
AMANI GUNASEKARA,
Secretary.
Child Development and Women Affairs,
175A, Nawala Road,
Nugegoda.
Specimen Application form
MINISTRY OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND WOMEN'S
AFFAIRS
APPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF WOMEN DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS
01. (a) Applicant's name with initials :——————.
(Sinhala / Tamil)
Applicant's name with initials :——————.
(In English block capital letters)
(b) Full name :——————.
(Sinhala / Tamil)
Full Name :——————.
(In English block capital letters)
02. Permanent Address :——————.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1835
03. Present Address :——————.
04. District of the Permanent Residence :——————.
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. District Appl ying for Divisional Secretariat
1. 1.
2. 2.
3. 3.
07. Male / Female :——————.
08. Date of Birth :
Year :—————. Month :—————. Date :————.
09. Nationality :——————.
10.Civil Status :——————.
11.Details of the Degree :
(c) University :——————.
(d) Date of Graduation :——————.
(e) Degree obtained :——————.
(f) Class :——————.
(g) Medium :——————.
12. Relevant other educational qualifications, if any (Post Graduate/
Diploma) :
(i) ——————.
(ii) ——————.
(iii) ——————.
13. Language Proficiency (marks in the relevant column)
Very Good Good Average Nil
Sinhala
Tamil
English
14. Other Professional qualifications, if any (served in Women
Development, Community Development Organizations) :
..................................................................................................
..................................................................................................
Certificate of the Applicant
I, ………………………… do hereby declare that the particulars
furnished above are true and accurate. I am also aware that I have
never been dismissed from the Public Service or sent on retirement
on inefficiency as an alternate under sympathetic grounds or never
been treated as a person who had vacated a post in the Public
Service. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before
selection or to be dismissed if such detection is made after
appointment.
——————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :—————.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for those applicants in
the Public Service
I certify that Mrs/Miss. …………………………….. works in
this Ministry/department as a ……………. on a permanent/
temporary/casual basis and I can/can not release her if selected for
appointment for this post.
——————,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :—————.
Name :—————.
Signature :—————.
Ministry/Department :—————.
Divisional Secretariat where Vacancies exist for the Post of
Women Development Officers
District Divisional Secretariat
1. Colombo Padukka
2. Kalutara W alallawita
3. Galle Akmemana
4. Niyagama
5. Matara Pitabeddara
6. Hambantota Thissamaharama
7. Kandy Deltota
8. Minipe
9. Ududumbara
10. Matale Wilgamuwa
11. Rathtota
12. Laggala Pallegama
13. Galewela
14. Nuwara Eliya Walapane
15. Kotmale
16. Rathnapura A yagama
17. Kiri Ella
18. Kolonna
19. Opanayaka
20. Weligepola
21. Badulla Lunugala
22. Kandekatiya
23. Mahiyanganaya
24. Anuradhapura Padaviya
25. Weli Oya
26. Horowpathana
27. Polonnaruwa Hingurakgoda
28. Puttalama Karuwalagas Wewa
29. Kalpitiya
30. Mahakumbukkadawala

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1836
31. Jaffna Delft
32. Karainagar
33. Kayts
34. Velanai
35. Vadamarachchy East
36. Valikamam West (Chankanay)
37. Kilinochchi Karachchi
38. Kandawali
39. Punkari
40. Pachchilai Palli
41. Mannar Mannar Town
42. Monthai West
43. Musali
44. Madu
45. Nanattan
46. Mullaitivu Maritimepattu
47. Mantai East
48. Oddusudan
49. Pudukudairippu
50. Tunukkai
51. Vauniya Vauniya North
52. Vengala Cheddikulam
53. Vauniya South
54. Ampara Akkaraipattu
55. Alayadivembu
56. Eragama (Irakamam)
57. Karaitivu
District Divisional Secretariat District Divisional Secretariat
58. Lahugala
59. Maha Oya
60. Navithanvely
61. Pottuvil
62. Sain Thamaruthu
63. Thirukkovil
64. Padiyatalawa
65. Kalmune Tamil
66. Batticaloa Eravurpattu
67. Korelei Pattu (Valaichchenei)
68. Koralai Pattu North
69. Kantakkudi
70. Manmunai South West
71. Manmunai West (Kalawanchikudi)
72. Manmunai South
73. Manmunai North
74. Koralepattu South
75. Korale Pattu Central
76. Trincomalee Gomarankadawala
77. Kuchchaweli
78. Kantale
79. Muthur
80. Morawewa
81. Seruwila
82. Verugal
10-43
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS
Small Entrepreneur Division
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION 2009 FOR ASSISTANT
DIRECTORS (DEPARTMENT)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
Assistant Directors (Department) attached to Small Entrepreneurs
Division of the Ministry of Youth Affairs will be conducted in
Colombo by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Applications
are invited according to the notification.
02. Examination procedure :
(a) This examination consists of two question papers and the
subjects recommended for each question paper are given
below.
(b) Total marks for each subject is 100 and the minimum pass
mark is 40.
(c) This examination will be conducted only in Sinhala.
(d) This examination consists of 02 subjects and the candidates
are allowed to sit once or in several sittings.
03. The question papers and the subjects for each question
papers :
Question paper No. 1 (03 hours) :
1. General Management - (Subject No. 01)
- Organization and Management
- Management Procedures and Management Activities
- Duties and functions of Managers
- Management Levels
- Duration of Management
- Human Resources Management.
Question Paper No. 2 (03 hours) :
2. Business Management and Development - (Subject No. 02)
- Entrepreneur and Economic Development
- Business Management and related Marketing, Human
Resources, Finance and operation in the Management field.
- Business Rules and Social Responsibility.
- Preparation of feasibility Studies and Project Reports.
The questions prepared under the curriculum which is relevant to
the question papers are of essay type. Each question paper should

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1837
consist of 06 (six) questions. Candidates should answer only for 05
(five) questions.
04. Method of application :-
(a) The candidate should prepare their application as per
specimen application published at the end of this
notification. Application should be prepared from (1) to
(3) of the in the first page and the rest should be on the
second page. All information should be filled clearly by
the candidate with his/her own handwriting. When
preparing the application the heading of the examination
in Sinhala/Tamil and should be English as well. The
application is not according to the specimen application
will be rejected without any intimation. It will be useful to
keep the photocopy of the relevant application.
(b) The duly filled application should be sent under registered
cover to reach the following address on or before
01.11.2010 :
"Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Examination Department,
(Organization and Foreign Examination Branch),
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla".
(c) The name of the examination "Efficiency Bar Examination
2009 for Assistant Directors (Department)" should be
clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
The applications received after the closing date will be
rejected. It will be useful to keep the photocopy of the
relevant application.
(d) Applicants will not be informed the receipt of the
application. Immediately after the admission cards are issued
to the applicants the Commissioner General of
Examinations will advertise it in the newspapers.
Candidates should be vigilant of this notice. If you do not
receive the Admission Card within 02 or 03 days of the
advertisement, it should be informed to the Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka. A letter of request along with
certified photocopy of your application, the receipt of
registered post and if you are residing out of Colombo the
fax number to forward the admission card and it will be
useful to keep your letter of request with you. This should
be notified to the address given in paragraph 04(b) (The
telegraphic address is "Exams", Pelawatta, Battaramulla')
05. Admission to the Examination :
(a) Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all candidates who have sent their
applications. Candidates should note that an Admission
Card is issued is not a qualification to sit for the examination
candidates should sit for the examination at the examination
centre assigned to them. Duly attested Admission Card
should be produced to the supervisor of the examination
centre. Candidates should produce the signature certified.
A Candidate who fails to produce admission card will not
be permitted to sit for the examination. The rules and
instructions have to be followed by the Candidates are
also given in this Gazette Notification.
Note.– The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does
not mean that he or she has the requisite qualification
to sit for the examination. All Candidates are bound to
abide by the rules and regulations laid down by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to conduct the
examination. If a candidate violates any of those rules
is liable to a punishment at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(b) Identification of the Candidate.– A candidate will have to
prove his/her identity at the Examination centre to the
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject. One of the
following identification will be accepted for this purpose.
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) Valid passport.
S. S. H
EWAPATHIRANA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs.
Ministry of Youth Affairs,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2, Alvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
For office use
SMALL ENTREPRENEUR DIVISION OF THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH
AFFAIRS EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR ASSISTANT DIRECTORS
(DEPARTMENTAL) OFFICERS - 2009
01.Name :
1.1 Last name with initials (In block capital) :–––––––––.
Example : SILV A, G . A.
1.2 Name in full  (In English capital) :–––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala) :–––––––––.
02.
2.1 Official address (In English capital) :–––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
2.2 Permanent address  (In Sinhala) :–––––––––.
2.3 National Identity Card No. :
2.4 Sex :
(Female - 1, Male - 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1838
03. Subjects offered in the examination :
1. ..................... Subject No.
2. ..................... Subject No.
I do hereby declare that the information given above are true and
accurate. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations of
the Examination, determined by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
CERTIFICATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
The application forwarded by Mr./Mrs./Miss. ...................... has
signed before me and I certify that the particulars given by him/her
are correct and eligible to sit for this efficiency bar examination.
––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
10–214
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS
Islamic Deeniyyath (Dharmacharya) Certificate
Examination—2010
RULES and Regulations.– The above examination will be held by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in the December, 2010.
Subjects and the syllabus for the examination are given in Annexure 1.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination centres will be set up
in towns given in Annex-1 considering the number of candidates.
Candidates will be attached to the nearest examination centre if
there are not enough candidates to set up an examination centre, in
a town.
3. Language Medium .– This examination will be conducted in
all three languages namely Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates
will not be allowed to sit for the examination in more than one
language.
4. Qualifications .– Candidates must possess any one of the
following qualifications. The qualification should have been
completed in the year 2007 or before.
4.1. Pass in Ahadiya School Final Certificate Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.2 Maulavi Certificate awarded by an Arabic College registered
under the Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural
Affairs or pass in Al Alim Certificate preliminery
Examination conducted by the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.3 Three passes in G. C. E. A/L Examination conducted by
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, with Islam
or Islamic Civilization as a subject.
4.4 At least two years of teaching experience in an Ahadiya
School or an Arabic College and pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination including a Credit for the subject Islam.
Note : (1) Qualifications of candidates indicated in section
4 must be certified by the Principal of the
relevant Ahadiya School or Principal of the
relevant Arabic college.
 (2) Applications must be sent through a Principal
of a registered Ahadiya School or a registered
Arabic College. Private applications will not
be entertained.
5. Application forms and the instructions will be sent by post
to the registered Ahadiya Schools and Arabic Colleges. Institutions
which did not receive the applications and instructions should
contact the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, indicating the number of
applicants on or before 25th October, 2010.
5.1 Application forms must be prepared in duplicate and the
original must be sent to the Department of Examinations.
The copy should be filed in the institution.
5.2 Application forms must be filled clearly and correctly.
Incomplete applications and those received after the
closing of application will be rejected.
5.3 Closing date of application will be 29th October, 2010.
5.4 Completed application forms must be sent by registered
post to the following address :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla.
(Applications will not be acknowledged.)
5.5 The top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing with
the application should have the name of the Exam "Islamic
Deeniyyath (Dharmacharya) Certificate Examination-
2010" and the Centre of the choice (written clearly).
5.6 No document should be annexed to the application. The
Principals of the Institutions should certify to the effect
that the applicant holds the prescribed qualifications.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1839
6. Those who sit for the examination for the first time will be
allowed to sit free of charge. Other applicants must pay an
examination fee of Rs. 150. Referred Candidates who apply for
only one subject must pay Rs. 40 as examination fee.
6.1 Payment of examination fee .– Relevant amount should
be paid to Examinations Department Revenue Head
2003-02-13 at a post office and the receipt obtained
should be pasted on the application form. (It is advised
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the Head of the
institution that forwards the application).
7. Admission cards will be sent to the Principal of Ahadiya
schools or the Arabic colleges.
7.1 Applicants must hand over the admission cards to the
supervisor on the first instance of sitting the examination.
Failure to do so will result in the cancellation of
candidature.
7.2 Applicants’ signature on the admission card should be
attested by the Principal of Ahadiya School or the
Principal of the Arabic College.
8. Proof of Personal Identification.– Applicants should forward
any one of the following to prove their identity at the examination
centre :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) A valid passport.
9. Release of Results and Determination of Passes.– Candidates
who obtain passes in all five subjects will be considered to have
passed the examination. They will be awarded the Shareea Certificate
for Islamic Dharmacharya. Those who obtain passes in four subjects
and not less than 25 marks in the fifth subject will be considered as
referred; and if they sit for the referred subject at the first subsequent
examination diet and obtain a pass, they will be entitled for the
award of certificate. The referred candidate should indicate the
details of their results of the previous examination, i. e. the year,
index number, subjects and the results obtained in their application
form.
10. Examination.– This examination consists of five question
papers. Duration of each paper will be 3 hours. The question papers
are as follows:
(1) Aqeeda and Masadirush-shareea (Islamic principles and
legal sources) ;
(2) Al Fiqhul Islami (Islamic law) ;
(3)  Asseera waththaareekul Islami (Seera and Islamic history) ;
(4) Society and Ethics (Al Akhlaq was Sulook) ;
(5) Islamic Literature and Arabic Language (Al lukathul
Arabiyya Wal Adhabul Islami).
11. Structure of the Question Paper :
• Each question paper will consist of Part I, II and III.
• The question in Part-1 is compulsory. There will be 10
short questions. Each question will carry 04 marks.
Eg : How would you convert your day-to-day activities
to Ibadha? (4 x 10 = 40 marks).
• Part-II will consist of 5 structured questions, out of which
only 4 questions should be answered. Each question carries
12 marks. (12x4=48 marks).
• Part-III will consist of 2 essay type questions, out of
which only one question should be answered. It carries 12
marks.  (12 x 1 = 12 marks).
12. Criteria for Determination of Passes  :
• Each question paper will carry a total of 100 marks.
• Pass mark will be 40 marks.
(a) 00 – 24 marks F
(b) 25 – 39 marks W
(c) 40 – 54 marks S
(d) 55 – 64 marks C
(e) 65 – 74 marks B
(f) 75 – 100 marks A
13. Re-scruting of Answer Scripts.– Application for re-scrutiny
of answer scripts should be forwarded through the Principal of the
Institution in the stipulated forms provided by the Department of
Examination within 30 days from the release of results. However a
fee will be levied and it will be refunded only if the results get
changed.
14. Each candidate should abide by the conditions and
instructions given above. Decisions of the Commissioner General
of Examination will be final regarding any other matter not mentioned
above.
A
NURA EDIRISINGHE,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examination, Sri Lanka,
Pelewatte,
Battaramulla,
16th September, 2010.
ANNEXTURE - 1
T
OWNS WHERE EXAMINA TION CENTRES WILL BE SET-UP
District Number Town Number
01. Colombo District
Colombo Central 01
Bambalapitiya 02
02. Gampaha District
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Negombo 05
03. Kaluthara District
Kaluthara 06
Aluthgama 07
B4 - B 80157

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1840
04. Galle District
Galle 08
05. Matara District
Matara 09
06. Hambantota District
Hambantota 10
07. Kegalle District
Warakapola 11
Mawanella 12
08. Kurunagala District
Kuliyapitiya 13
Kurunegala 14
Galgamuwa 15
09. Puttalam District
Chilaw 16
Puttalam 17
Kalpitiya 18
10. Anuradhapura District
Anuradapura 19
Kekirawa 20
Galenbindunuwewa 21
11. Polonnaruwa District
Kaduruwela 22
12. Matale District
Matale 23
13. Kandy District
Kandy 24
Nawalapitiya 25
Akurana 26
14. Nuwara Eliya District
Nuwara Eliya 27
15. Ratnapura District
Balangoda 28
16. Badulla District
Badulla 29
Welimada 30
17. Monaragala District
Bibile 31
18. Ampara District
Sammanthurai 32
Kalmunai 33
Akkaraipattu 34
19. Batticaloa District
Kaththankudi 35
Eravur 36
Valaichenai 37
20. Trincomalee District
Trincomalee 38
Mutur 39
Kinniya 40
21. Vavuniya District
Vavuniya 41
22. Mannar District
Mannar 42
23. Mullaitivu District
Mullaitivu 43
24. Kilinochchi District
Kilinochchi 44
25. Jaffna District
Jaffna 45
ANNEXTURE-2
01. A
QEEDHA AND MASADIRUSH-SHAREEA
1.1 Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.1 Islamic Aqeedha - Introduction and general description
1.1.2 Contents of Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.2.1 Thawheed
- Al uluhiyya
- Al rububiyya
- Understanding Allah’s characteristics through
Asmaul Husna
1.1.2.2 Ruhaniyyath
1.1.2.3 Nubuwwath
1.1.2.4 Sam-iyyath
1.1.2.5 Kala-Kadhr
1.1.3 Divisions of Aqeedha
1.2 Masadirush Shareea
1.2.1 Masadirun nakliyya - Introduction
1.2.2 Wahi
- Importance of Wahi
- Types of Wahi
1.2.3 Al-Quran
1.2.3.1 Revelation and complication
- Thartheeb nusul, thatheeb thilawath
1.2.3.2 Structure
- Makki - Madani
- Nasik - Mansoor
District Number Town Number District Number Town Number

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1841
- Muhkam – Muthashabir
- Asbabun nusul
1.2.3.3 Ihjasul Quran
- Related to language
- Related to law
- Related to science
1.2.3.4 Art of Thafseer
- Origin and development
- Thafseers (Mankool, Mahkool, Modern
Thafseers)
1.2.3.5 Relations with Al-Quran
- Method of approaching Al-Quran
- Aims of Al-Quran
- Methods of learning Al-Quran
1.2.4 Assunna
1.2.4.1 Description – Literary and practical
1.2.4.2 Sunna as a source for making of law
1.2.4.3 Protection of Hadhees
- Nabi (sal)’s era
- Sahaba’s era
- Thabieens’s era
- Thabauth thabieen’s era
- Modern era
1.2.4.4 Hadhees related arts and their effects
- Asmaur rijal
- Ilmul jarah wath thahtheel
- Usulul Hadhees
1.2.4.5 Understanding of Hadhees
- Hadhees as guidance for life
- Hadhees compilations
1.2.4.6 Approaching Hadhees
- Understanding of Hadhees related to several fields
(Protection of  environment, health, economics,
science)
1.2.5 Supportive Sources
1.2.5.1 Ijthihad
- Description – Literary and practical
- Importance
- Divisions of thoughts (Madrasathul asar,
Madrasathul rauyu)
1.2.5.2 Mujthahids
- Qualifications and types
- Their contribution
- Origin and growth of Madhabs
1.2.5.3 Supportive Sources
- Mechanism and uses (Ijma, Kiyas, Maslaha,
Mursala, Urf, Sharau, Sabika, Isthishan, Isthishab,
Kawlussahaba, Sadhdhus Sarau)
02. A
L FIKHUL ISLAM
2.1 Ibadhath
2.1.1 Thaharath : Najees – Description
- Conditions and regulations
2.1.2 Ibadhath
- Literal description and application
- Types of Ibadhaths and its principles
- Relations between Imaan and Ibadhath
2.2 Basic Ibadhath
2.2.1 Salath
- Importance
- Types
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.2 Zakath
- Importance, regulations
- Benefits
- Importance of institutionalizing of Zakath
- Zakathul Fithr
2.2.3 Saum
- Importance, types
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.4 Al Haj
- Importance
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.5 Other Ibadhath
- Sadhaka, Umrah
- Thilawathul Quran, Thowba-Isthihfar, Zikr-Awradh,
Dua
- Kawf, Rajaa, Rila, Thawakkul, Warau, Suhdh
- Siyarathul Kuboor, Kurbani
2.3 Muamalath
2.3.1 Islamic Economy
- Introduction
-Characteristics
2.3.2 Earning and spending
- Importance of earning
- Agriculture (Musara-a, Ihyaul Mamath)
- Industry
2.3.3 Business
- Importance
-  Business methods approved by Islam (Samsara, Baiuth-
thakseedh, Mularaba, Musharaka, Murabaha, Ijara, Rahn)
- Modern business methods (Compare with other business
methods: eg: Banking, Insurance)
2.3.4 Methods of earning, prohibited by Islam
- Adulteration, cheating, hoarding
- Bribe, Gambling, Interest
- Selling things which are haram

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1842
2.4 Munakahath
2.4.1 Nikah
- Islamic view of Nikah
- Nikah – Regulations
- Polygamy
2.4.2 Family
- Importance of family life
- Husband-wife - relationship
- Duties and rights
- Bringing up of children - Teachings and guidance
- Parents and children – Duties and rights
- Warasath
2.4.3 Divorce
- Islamic view of divorce
- Types and regulations
- Iddhah - Description, conditions, maintenance
2.5 Jinayath
2.5.1 Jinayath – Introduction
2.5.2 Crimes
- Types
- Remedy
2.5.3 Punishment
- Islamic view of punishment
- Hudhoodh, Kisas, Thahseer
- Kaffara, Fidhya
03. S
EERA AND ISLAMIC HISTORY
3.1 Islamic view of History
- Characteristics of Islamic History
3.2 Historical Periods
3.2.1 Nabi (sal)’s period
- Period before Nabi (sal)
- Nabi (sal) - Makka period
- Nabi (sal) – Madeena period
3.2.2 Period of Kulafaurrshidheen
- Kaleefa – Method of selection
- Expansion of kingdom
- Reasons and methods
- Challenges encountered
- Personality traits and exemplars of Kaleefa
3.2.3 Period of later Kaleefas
3.2.3.1 Umayya period
- Uprise of Umayya
- Major Kaleefas – Personality traits and
contributions (Muaviya, Abdhul Malik,
Waleedh, Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez)
- Expansion of kingdom and consequences
- Challenges encountered
3.2.3.2 Abbasid period
- Uprise of Abbasis
- Major Kaleefas and their contributions
(Mansoor, Haroon, Mamoon)
- Comparisons of rules of Kulafaurrshidheen with
the rule of later Kaleefas
3.2.3.3 Other rulers
- Umayyad rule in Spain
- Mogul rule in India
- Usmaniaya rule in Turkey
3.2.3.4 Modern Islamic world
3.3 Islamic Art
3.3.1 Sciences
- Islamic of view of sciences
- Development of following sciences and contributions:
Medical, History, Mathematics, Astronomy,
Geography.
3.3.2 Aesthetic Art
- Islamic view of aesthetic art
- Origin and development of the following art: Quira-ath,
Calligraphy, Arabesque, Architecture, Miniature art,
Music
3.4 Contributions of Masjids in Islamic History
- Origin and services of masjids
- Origin and importance of the following masjids: Masjidhul
Haram, Masjidhul Nabavi, Masjidhul Aqsa
3.5 History of Sri Lankan Muslims
3.5.1 Arrival of Arabs
3.5.2 Introduction of Islam in Sri Lanka
3.5.3 Sri Lankan Muslims
- Spreading of settlements
- Old and new settlements
3.5.4 Religious and Social Structure
- Masjidhs
- Muslim Personal law
- Laws related to Wakf and divorce
- Court of Quasi and appeal court of Quasi
- Department of Muslim religious and cultural affairs
3.6 Muslim Historical Leaders
3.6.1 Sahabas
[Musab Ibnu Umair (Rali), Bilal (Rali), Saidh Ibnu Sabith
(Rali), Thulbijadhain (Rali), Ummu Amara (Rali), Asma
Binthi Abubakr (Rali), Fathima (Rali)]

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1843
3.6.2 Thabieens
(Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez, Saeedh Ibnu Musaiyyab, Atha
Inbu Abee Rabah, Imam Zuhri)
3.6.3 Thinkers – Reformers
(Abdhul Quadir Jeelani, Imam Gazzaly, Abul Hasan
Shathuli, Ibnu Kaiyyoom Al Jawsy, Muhammadh Ibnu
Abdhul Wahhab, Maulana Ilyas, Imam Hasanul Banna,
Maulana Maudhoodhi)
04. S
OCIETY AND ETHICS
4.1 Society
4.1.1 Introduction
- Man, Islamic view of universe and life
4.1.2 Individual man
- Man’s contribution in society
- Man’s duties towards society
4.1.3 Family
- Individual man and family
- Family’s role in Islamic social structure
- Family’s role and duties in the formation of individual
man
- Relationship in the family
- Relatives and neighbours
4.1.4 Society
- Characteristics of Islamic social structure (Equality,
brotherhood,    independence, justice)
- Man and society (Rights)
- Promoting good deeds and demoting bad deeds
- Characteristics and duties of Islamic trainer
- Relationships of Muslims in a multi-ethnic society
- Protecting the weak ones
- V ocational guidance
- Social ethics (Tolerance, compromise, thawasun, obeying
for leadership, social communication)
- Strengthening an weakening factors of social
relationships
4.2 Ethics
4.2.1 Relationships with Allah
- Ihlas
- Thaqwa
- Thawakkul
- Acceptance of Allah’s wills wholeheartedly
- Love towards Allah
-  Be thankful
4.2.2 Social ethics related to human relationships
- Brotherhood
- Truthfulness
- Trustworthy
- Forgiving
- Cleanliness
- Kindness
- Shyness
- Patience
4.2.3 Ethics related to other living beings and things
- Showing love towards living beings and look into their
welfare
- Protecting physical environment
- Doing good for the country
- Disaster management
05. I
SLAMIC LITERATURE AND ARABIC LANGUAGE
5.1 Islamic Literature
- Theories and Principles of Islamic Literature
- Modern Islamic Literature – An introduction
5.2 Contribution of the following individuals towards Islamic
Literature
In Tamil
-M.C.Siththy lebbe
-Dr.M.M.Uvais
-A.M.A.Azeez
-Umar Hazrath
-U.M.Thasim
-Poet, Abdhul Kadar lebbe
In Sinhala
-Dr.M.M.Uvais
-S.M.Mansoor
-A.M.Shahul Hameed
-M.H.M.Shums
-M.A.Mahamed Master (Dikwella)
-Matara, Cassim Poet
5.3 Arabic Tamil
5.3.1 Arabic Tamil - Introduction
- Arabic Tamil Origin and development
5.3.2 Knowledge related to the following creative works
- Fathuhudhdhayyan - Alimul Aroos
- Thafseer - Seiku Musthafa (Beruwala)
- Quthbas of Ibnu Nufadha
- Meesan Malai
- Thalai Fathiha
- Thakkashurudh
5.4 Arabic Language
5.4.1 Development of language skills
- Listening
- Speaking
- Reading
- Writing
5.4.2 W ords and phrases used in day-to-day life
- Short sentences

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1844
5.4.3 T ranslate into Arabic from English / Sinhala / Tamil
Translate into English / Sinhala / Tamil from Arabic
5.4.4 Answer questions related to a given paragraph
- Insertion of punctuation marks in the paragraph
5.4.5 Appreciation of literature – Al Quran and Sunna
- Mufradhathul Quran
- Description of a given situation
5.4.6 Ahkamuth Thajweedh – Laws of Thajweedh
5.4.7 Grammatical knowledge
5.4.7.1 Assarbu
- Verbs - Past, present and future
- Verbs - First person, second person, third person
- Difference of masculine, feminine, singular and
plural
- Verb - Commands
- Passive verbs - In past and present tense
- Base verbs (Masther)
- Plural forms
5.4.7.2 Annahwu
- Al mufthadha wal kafar
- Al fial wal fa-il
- Asmaul Ishara
- Assifath
- Huruful Jarru
- Al mulaf wal mulaf ilaihi
- Kaana wa akawathuha
- Inna wa akawathuha
- Al Haal
10-172

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1845
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.10.2010
1846
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month D ate of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2010
OCTOBER 01.10.2010 Friday — 17.09.2010 Friday 12 noon
08.10.2010 Friday –– 24.09.2010 Friday 12 noon
15.10.2010 Friday –– 01.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
21.10.2010 Thursday –– 08.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
29.10.2010 Friday –– 15.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 04.11.2010 Thursday — 21.10.2010 Thursday 12 noon
12.11.2010 Friday –– 29.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
19.11.2010 Friday –– 04.11.2010 Thursday 12 noon
26.11.2010 Friday –– 12.11.2010 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 03.12.2010 Friday — 19.11.2010 Friday 12 noon
10.12.2010 Friday –– 26.11.2010 Friday 12 noon
17.12.2010 Friday –– 03.12.2010 Friday 12 noon
24.12.2010 Friday –– 10.12.2010 Friday 12 noon
31.12.2010 Friday –– 17.12.2010 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.