

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 05.01.2021
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G 33512 — 50 (01/2021)
w;s úfYI
wxl 2209$22 - 2021 ckjdß ui 05 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2021'01'05
No.  2209/22  - TUESDAY ,   JANUARY    05,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 OF 2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008,
as amended, I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Finance, do by this Notification:
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project to set up a
‘‘Dedicated Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Zone” (hereinafter referred as “the zone”) in an  area of 400 acres of
land owned by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka in Hambantota-Arabokka area in two stages of 200 acres
each to facilitate investments made by foreign/local Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, as a project of national
interest that is likely to bring economic and social benefits and also to change the landscape
of the country. The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka will be the implementing agency under the supervision of
the Ministry of Health and the State Ministry of Production, Supply and Regulation of Pharmaceuticals.
(2) Declare that the infrastructure requirement of the first phase of the zone will be ready within eighteen months
(18) months from the date of approval of the Cabinet of Ministers in terms of Section 3(3) of the Strategic
Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, as amended.
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14
of 2008, as amended, the proposed exemptions set out in the Schedule below to this Notification shall apply  to
individual enterprises established within the zone, and will be customized for each said enterprise (hereinafter

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 05.01.2021
2A
referred as “the enterprise”) according to a pre-defined criteria developed based on parameters such as size of
investment, type of the product to be manufactured, market orientation, type of patent rights, domestic value
addition, manufacturing quality etc. Individual enterprises shall be eligible for selected incentives out of the
incentives referred in the Schedule (a) to (e) based on the above criteria.
(4) The incentives referred in the schedule will be reviewed every five (05) years with effect from the date of
approval of the parliament for this zone under Section 3(5) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of
2008, as amended and submitted to the Cabinet for its approval followed by a fresh 3(4) Gazette Notification.
(5) Granting of incentives for each enterprise will be decided by a committee comprised of Chairman and Director
General of Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, Secretary or nominee of Ministry of Health, Secretary or nominee
of State Ministry of Production, Supply and Regulation of Pharmaceuticals, Chairman of State Pharmaceutical
Corporation, Chairman of State Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Corporation, Chairman of National Medicines
Regulatory Authority, Chairman of Export Development Board and Chairman of Central Environmental Authority
which will be stipulated in the individual agreement between the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and the
enterprise (hereinafter referred as “BOI Agreement”).
SCHEDULE
(a) Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
(a) 1. Corporate Income Tax (CIT)
For income generated through exports
Minimum of five (05) years up to (ten) 10-years tax holiday shall be granted based on the aforesaid criteria.
The said exemption period shall be reckoned from the year in which the enterprise commences to make
profits or any year of assessment not later than two (02) years reckoned from the date on which such
enterprise commences commercial operations, whichever is earlier.
After the expiry of the aforesaid tax holiday period, the prevailing Corporate Income Tax rate applicable for
exporters at that time shall be applicable in respect of the profits generated by the enterprise.
For income generated through import substitution
Minimum of five (05) years up to (ten) 10-years tax concession prevailing for exporters shall be granted
based on the aforesaid criteria.
The said concession period shall be reckoned from the year in which the enterprise commences to make
profits or any year of assessment not later than two (02) years reckoned from the date on which such
enterprise commences commercial operations, whichever is earlier.
After the expiry of the aforesaid tax concession period, the prevailing Corporate Income Tax rate applicable
for manufacturers at that time shall be applicable in respect of the profits generated by the enterprise.
(a) 2. Income Tax on Employment
Upto a maximum number of twenty (20) expatriate employees of the enterprise shall be exempted from
income tax arising from gains and profits from employment in the enterprise in the zone for a period of five
(05) years.
(b) Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Value Added Tax ( V AT ) for importation/
local purchase of capital & construction related items, raw materials and production/process related
consumables for both production for export and import substitution.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 05.01.2021
3A
(c) Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Ports and Airports Development Levy
(“PAL”) for importation of capital & construction related items, raw materials and production/process
related consumables for both production for export and import substitution.
(d) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Customs Duty for import of capital &
construction related items, raw materials and production/process related consumables (for the quantities
imported for both production for export and import substitution) as approved by the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka excluding the items in the negative list published by the Ministry of Finance. However, any
importation of items in the negative list shall be considered by the Board Directors of BOI, where such
items are not available in sufficient quality, quantity and to conform to the time lines of the project
completion.
(e) Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of CESS under The Sri Lanka Export
Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 for importation of capital & construction related items, raw materials and
production/process related consumables for both production for export and import substitution.
M
AHINDA  RAJAPAKSA ,
Minister of Finance.
Ministry of Finance,
Colombo 01,
January 05, 2021.
01 - 623
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.