

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2014
115
115
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 06th June 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
23rd   May, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 116
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"863- 2014 uehs 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'05'16
No. 1,863 – FRIDAY ,  MAY 16,  2014
Note. –  Twenty Second Amendment to the  Constitution  Bill is published as a supplement to the  part II of the  Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka  of April 25, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2014
116
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land  Commissioner General's No . : 4/10/19794.
Deputy Land  Commissioner's  No.:NCP/PLC/2005/10/M/T/04 .
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE   LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose, Mrs.
Samaratunga Randunu Appuhamilage Indra Hemalatha  has
requested on lease a state land containing in extent about  16.5
Perches out of  extent marked lot 01 as depicted in  the Plan No. F.
V . M. 174 and situated in the Village of  Nallapambukulama  belongs
to the Grama Niladhari Division of No. 572, Henawatte coming
within the Area of Authority of  Mihintale  Divisional Secretariat in
the District of Anuradhapura.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Land of M. W. Alliba ;
On the East by : Land of O. A. Theja Wipula ;
On the  South by : Road Reservation ;
On the West by : Road Reservation.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and  the
following conditions  : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease .– Thirty  (30) Years  (15.06.1995
onwards);
(b) The Annual Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the  undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief Valuer  for
the  year  1995 ;
Penalty .-  Treble 4% of the developed value of the land;
(c) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessees must not use this land for any other than for the
Residential Purpose ;
(e) This lease must also be subject to the other special conditions
stipulated and imposed by the Divisional Secretary and by
other institutions;
(f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in  a proper
state of repair ;
(g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(h) Permission will not be given for  any other sub - leasing or
transfer, other than  transferring  within the family or sub
- leasing  or transferring  to accomplish the  purpose of this
lease Bond  until the expiry of 05 years from 19.03.2014/A
grant could  claimed for this  lease bond after  the expiry of
05 years from 19.03.2014. ;
(i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(j) House construction activities must  be completed within
the time frame specified in alienating lands for house
construction purposes and the  failure to do so will be
deemed as a lapse  of the  long - term lease bond  and the
land  will have to be  re-vested in the  government.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
N
UWANI SUDUSINGHE,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,  Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura",
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
09th  May, 2014.
05-522
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/33259.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.:EP/28/LES/AMP/Kal/88.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose, Mr. Nadaraja
Sooriyakumaran   has requested on lease a  State land containing in
extent about  0.0086 Hectares from Grama Niladhari Division of
Kalmunai  coming within  the area of authority  of   Kalmunai
Divisional Secretariat in the District of  Ampara.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Lot belonging to Mr. Naminadan ;

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2014
117
On the East by : The Mainstreet ;
On the  South by : A. C. C. D. Lane ;
On the West by : the  office of A. C. C. D.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following  conditions : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( from 15.06.1995);
The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the   commercial
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer in
the year 1995. This amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the amount as
a result of the revision will be  not less than  50% of the
amount that just preceded.
Penalty. - Treble 4% of the developed value of the  land ;
(b) The  lessee must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes  other
than for Commercial  purpose ;
(d) The  lease  must  also be subject to the other special conditions
stipulated and imposed by the Divisional Secretary/Scoping
Committee/Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and  other
institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in  a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) Permission will not be given for other  sub - leasing or
vesting except for vesting within the  family or sub - leasing
or vesting  for the  purpose for which the land was obtained
until the expiry of 05 years  from 29.01.2014 ;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
RASADEE UBAYASIRI ,
Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura",
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
24th April, 2014.
05-458
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.