

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2321$70 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'03'03
No. 2321/70  -  friday,   march  03,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a-  PG 6245 - 457 (03/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI  LANKA  COUNCIL  OF  ARCHAEOLOGISTS  ACT,  No.  4  OF  1992  (INCORPORATED)
The set of rules made under the title Sri Lanka council of archaeologists published in the Gazettes Extraordinary of the 
democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka No. 854/6 of Tuesday, 17th January 1995 and No. 1901/9 of Tuesday, 10th february 
2015 under Section 6 (1) of the Sri Lanka council of archaeologists  act, No. 4 of 1992 (incorporated) is hereby repealed 
as per the order of the council and the new set of rules prepared under the title “The Sri Lanka council of archaeologists” 
is hereby enacted.
By Order of the council,
 Dr. rose solangaarachchi,
 President,
 Sri Lanka council of archaeologists.
department of archaeology,
colombo 07.
25
th of January 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
2a
Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists New Constitution made in terms of Section 6(1) of the Act
01. (a) any person who has held a continuous and active membership I in the member category for a period of more than ten 
years, shall be enrolled by the Board as a Fellow member of the council. 
and
The membership application and the Self-assessment report for the fellow membership issued by the Board of Governors 
of Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists shall be duly filled and submitted to the above Council.  
A person who has fulfilled the qualifications mentioned above may be recommended as a Fellow Member of the council 
after assessing through a committee (Bare)II appointed by the Board of Governors. Subsequently the Board of Governors 
may award the fellow membership on the said recommendation.
 (b) any person who has held a continuous and active membership 
I in the associate member category of the council for 
two years, shall be enrolled by the Board as a Member of the Member category of the council. 
and
any person who has obtained a two year Postgraduate degree III (MA / or MSc or other higher degree) from a University 
or from an institution recognized by the University Grants commission along with a Special degree in archaeology from a 
University recognized by the University Grants commission of Sri Lanka.  
or
any person who has obtained a diploma and a two year ( MA / or MSc or other higher degree) Postgraduate degree in 
archaeology from a University recognized by the University Grants commission  of Sri Lanka  along with a General degree 
with archaeology from a  University recognized by the University Grants commission of Sri Lanka.  
and
any person who has two year experience as a professional archaeologist IV in a recognized state or private institution under 
the supervision of a fellow member. for the proof of obtaining such experience, a membership application along with the 
appraisal report of Sri Lanka council of archeologists (Performance report for reviewing the progress of the archaeologists 
published by the Council of Archaeologists/ Record Book for Archaeologists) shall be duly filled and submitted to the 
aforesaid council.
Any person who has fulfilled the above qualifications will be enrolled as a Member of the Member category of the council 
after evaluating the same by the membership Subcommittee.
(c) any person who has held a continuous and active membership 
I in the category of registered membership in the council 
for five years, shall be enrolled by the Board as an Associate Member of the council. 
and
any person who has obtained a Special degree in archaeology from a University recognized by the University Grants 
commission of Sri Lanka
or
any person who has obtained a diploma in archaeology from a University recognized by the University Grants commission of 
Sri Lanka along with a General degree with archaeology from a University recognized by the University Grants commission 
of Sri Lanka.
and
any person who has two year experience as a professional archaeologist in a recognized State or private institution under the 
supervision of a fellow member / or a member of member category.  for the proof of obtaining such experience, a membership 
application along with the Profession appraisal report of Sri Lanka council of archeologists (Performance report for 
reviewing the progress of the archaeologists published by the council of archaeologists/ record Book for archaeologists) 
shall be duly filled and submitted to the aforesaid Council.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
3a
Any person who has fulfilled the above qualifications will be enrolled as a Member of the Associate Member category of 
the council after evaluating the same by the membership Subcommittee.
(d) any person who has held a continuous and active membership I in the student category in the Council for a period of five 
years, shall be enrolled by the Board as a Registered Member.
and
any person who has obtained a Special degree in archaeology from a University recognized by the University Grants 
commission of Sri Lanka
or
any person who has passed the Second and Third examinations approved by the council of archaeologists.  
or
any person who has completed a General degree with archaeology from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission of Sri Lanka and having passed at least two course units of the diploma course in archaeology from a University 
recognized by the University Grants commission of Sri Lanka until the commencement of above examination will be deemed 
as a qualification for the enrolment for the registered membership.
Any applicant who has fulfilled the above qualifications and expects the Registered membership shall duly complete and 
submit the membership application to the council and will be enrolled as a Member of the Registered Member category 
of the council after evaluating the same by the membership Subcommittee.
(e)  any person who has obtained a Special degree in archaeology from a University recognized by the University Grants 
commission of Sri Lanka shall be enrolled by the Board as a Student Member of the council 
or
Any person who has successfully completed the first Academic year of a Special Degree course in Archaeology at a University 
recognized by the University Grants commission of Sri Lanka. (recommendation of the head of the department shall be 
submitted for the proof). 
or
Any person who has passed the first Examination (First Stage) approved by the Council of Archaeologists 
or
any person who has completed a General degree with archaeology from a University recognized by the University Grants 
Commission of Sri Lanka until the commencement of the above Examination will also be deemed as a qualification for the 
enrolment as a student member. 
Any applicant who has fulfilled the above qualifications and expects the Student Membership shall duly fill and submit the 
membership application to the above council and will be enrolled as a Member of the Student Member category of the 
council after evaluating the same by the membership Subcommittee.
(f) Even though qualifications have been possessed to enroll into any of the above member category, from the order of the 
non - incorporated member category (student, registered) to incorporated member category (associate, member, fellow 
member) shall be followed in enrolling as a new member to the council of archaeologists. (One cannot be enrolled in to an 
intermediate member category).
 02. (a) The registered members and student members who represent the non-incorporated membership categories of the 
council shall have voting rights for their representations.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
4a
(b) a person who has rendered a distinguished service to the council or to the profession may be enrolled as an honorary 
member to the council by the Board. however, not more than one honorary member shall be enrolled by the council in a 
year and the total number of honorary members so enrolled shall at no time exceed ten. They shall not have voting rights 
at any election held by the council.
03. (a) an application issued by the council for the enrolment to any category or to any membership shall be submitted with 
signatures of three active incorporated members. in case of an application submitted for the enrolment as a fellow member, 
such application shall be submitted with signatures of two active fellow members. 
 (b) a membership register will be maintained by the Board of Governors. 
 (c) The council is vested with powers to issue an identity card for membership. 
 (d) The council is vested with powers to take action for the welfare of members of the council and to collect funds.
 04. A Certificate of Membership prepared in the format and design prescribed from time to time by the Council will be issued 
to each Member by the Board affixed with the common seal of the Council. Such certificate shall remain the property of the 
council and shall be returned to the council within seven days of termination of his / her membership if occurred due to any 
reason other than the death of the member concerned. The Board has vested with powers to issue a duplicate in the event of 
misplacing the original certificate by any means.
05. if any member, having paid all his outstanding membership fees and charges, informs the honorary co-Secretary in 
writing of his intention to resign from membership, his membership will be terminated.
06. At the event of a member whose membership is terminated on account of resignation and made a request for re-enrollment, 
the council has vested with powers to re-enroll him as a new member to the same category of membership held by him at 
the time of his resignation.
07. (a)  Admission fees, annual membership fees and other fees payable will be as specified in Schedule i of this constitution.
 (b) any person decided by the Board to get enrolled in to any category of membership other than the members of the 
honorary category, shall pay his admission fee and the annual membership fees for the relevant year within two 
months of such enrollment.
 (c) every member shall pay the annual membership fee and any annual fee payable by him, if any, at the commencement 
of the current year. if such dues are not paid by the 1
st of march in the year, a reminder will be sent to the member 
by the honorary Treasurer. if the dues are not paid by the 1 st of June in the current year, a letter will be sent to the 
member under registered cover by the honorary Treasurer. if any person does not pay his outstanding dues within 
one month of such notice, his membership will be terminated. Such person may be re-enrolled as a member, if the 
Board is convinced that there had been sufficient reasons for such non-payment of dues.
 (d) If any Member is unable to be engaged in his profession or in a productive livelihood / to earn profit due to old 
age, illness, incapacity or any other valid reason, the Board may, by adopting a resolution, waive such member’s 
membership fees fully or partly.
 (e) It is sufficient to pay half of the annual membership fee by all the members over 60 years of age limit in all the 
categories of Sri Lanka council of archaeologists. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
5a
8. (a) The office bearers of the Council (Board of Governors) shall consist of the following:
i.  honorary President
ii.  honorary immediate past President
iii.  honorary Senior Vice President
iv.  honorary Vice President
v.  honorary Two co-Secretaries (02)
vi.  honorary Treasurer
vii.  honorary assistant Treasurer
(b) The committee of the council consists of eleven (11) members.
The Board of Governors consists of the aforesaid office Bearers and the Committee Members.
(c) Only Fellow Members will be eligible for the offices of Honorary President, Honorary Senior Vice President and Honorary 
Vice President. However, only an incorporated member who has served the Board for at least one term of office shall be 
eligible to elect to hold the office of the Honorary Vice President.
(d) The Honorary President shall be the person who has held the office of Honorary Senior Vice President at the end of the 
previous year. Although such a member may not hold the office of Honorary President for more than one term, he may be 
re-elected to the same office after the expiry of two terms of the Board.
(e) Only an incorporated Member who has served the Board for at least one term of office will be eligible for election as the 
Honorary Senior Vice President. Although such a Member shall not hold the office of Honorary Senior Vice President for 
more than one consecutive term, he may be re-elected to the same office after the expiry of one term of office of the Board.
(f) Only an incorporated Member who has served on the Board for at least one term of office will be eligible for election as 
the Honorary Vice President. Although such a Member shall not hold the office of Honorary Vice President for more than 
one term, he may be re-elected to the same office after the lapse of one term of office of the Board following the expiry of 
the term of office.
(g) The Honorary immediate past President shall be the person who has held the office of Honorary President at the end of 
the previous term of office.
(h) Only an incorporated Member who has served on the Board for at least one term of office will be eligible for election 
as honorary co-Secretary, honorary Treasurer or honorary assistant Treasurer. although such member may not hold for 
more than one term an office previously held by him, he may be re-elected after the expiry of one term of office of the Board.
(i) Members elected to the offices of Honorary President, Honorary immediate past President, Honorary Senior Vice President, 
honorary Vice President, honorary co-Secretaries, honorary Treasurer and honorary assistant Treasurer of the Board of 
Governors may hold the offices to which they are elected for two consecutive terms without a voting.
(j) One term of office of the Board of Governors means the period between two Annual General Meetings.
9. (a) a member of the fellow member category or member category will be eligible for election as President of the 
Subcommittee of Studies for a period of one year only.  Although such a Member shall not hold such office for two consecutive 
terms, he may be elected to the same office after the expiry of one year.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
6a
(b) The President of the Subcommittee of Studies is an ex-officio Member of the Board of Governors.
10. (a) The Board of Governors shall consist of not more than nineteen (19) Members including the office bearers and one 
out of those members shall be the President of the Board of Studies.
(b) at least two members of the Board of Governors shall be the associate members and not more than three members shall 
be non-incorporated members.
11. (a) In the election of the aforesaid office bearers and the eight committee members, only the incorporated members shall 
be eligible for voting.
(b) When an incorporated member submits nominations for a another incorporated member to serve joining as a member of 
the Board of Governors for the offices in 11 (a) above, proposing and seconding shall be limited only for the maximum of 
two candidates. 
12. (a) registered members and student members shall have the right to get elected at least one registered member and one 
student member respectively in order to have themselves represented at the Board of Governors.
(b) although such members have the right to be informed of the meetings of the Board of Governors and to participate in 
such meetings, they shall have no voting rights for incorporated offices. They shall not be present at any disciplinary inquiry 
or any discussion on any related matter and shall not participate in such an occasion.
13. if the council membership of the Board of Governors is expired or if he informs the honorary President or the honorary 
Secretary by a registered letter of his intention to resign from his office, then the term of such member will terminate.
14. (a) in the event of the death of the honorary President, honorary Senior Vice President, honorary co-Secretary or 
Honorary Treasurer or the vacation of office by any of them, the Honorary Senior Vice President or Honorary Vice President 
or Honorary Co-Secretary or Honorary Assistant Treasurer, as applicable, shall fill the relevant vacancy until the Board of 
Governors subsequently elects and assumes duties.
 (b) When a Member of the Board of Governors dies or vacates the office or when a vacancy occurs on account of the operation 
of Article 14(a) or any other reason, the Board shall appoint a member to the said office.
15. (a) The Board of Governors shall meet at least once a month and the date of the next meeting of the Board shall be fixed, 
as far as possible, at the respective meetings of the Board.
 (b) The honorary Secretary shall convene an extra-ordinary meeting of the Board on the order of the honorary President 
or on a request received signing at least six members of the Board of Governors to consider a matter specifically informed 
by the President or to consider any matter specifically mentioned in the written request. The date, time and venue of such 
meeting and the businesses to be considered there shall be intimated to all members of the Board at least 48 hours in advance.
(c) The quorum at a meeting of Board of Governors shall be six members (excluding non-incorporated members).
(d) The members of the Board who have not attended for the meetings of Board of Governors continuously three times 
without informing a clear reason shall be removed and such members may not submit nominations again for the offices in 
the Board until lapsing 4 years.  

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
7a
 (e) The Board of Governors has vested with powers to appoint an administrative Secretary for the easement of administrative 
activities of the council on the discretion of the Board of Governors in terms of Section 10 of the Sri Lanka council of 
archaeologists act. 
16. (a) any two incorporated members shall submit nominations to elect any incorporated member who is eligible for election 
to any office other than that of the President and the Immediate Past President of the Board of Governors /Council. 
(b) any two registered members and any two student members may nominate any registered and any student member 
respectively for election to the Board in terms of article 12(a).
(c) Such nominations shall be in writing and signed by the proposer and the seconder with confirmation that all amounts of 
annual membership fees and any other payables have been duly paid. furthermore, it shall include a written statement signed 
by the candidate to the effect that he is eligible for election as per the relevant rules and that he expresses his willingness to 
serve on the Board of Governors if elected.
(d) The member shall submit such nominations for the election to the honorary co- Secretary at least 15 days prior to the 
annual General meeting.
(e) The Board of Governors may, at the session of its last meeting, nominate by proposing and seconding one member each 
for the respective offices on the Board other than that of the President and Immediate Past President. Such nomination will 
not be valid unless the relevant candidate makes a statement signed by him, prior to being nominated or within two weeks 
of such nomination, to the effect that he is eligible for election as per the relevant set of rules and if so elected, he would be 
willing to serve on the Board.
17. (a) The notice related to the annual General meeting shall include a list of names of all candidates nominated in terms 
of article 16.
 (b) No member shall be eligible to vote unless he has paid in advance the membership fees due from him in respect of the 
current calendar year.
(c) The principal item on the Agenda of the Annual General Meeting shall be the election of office bearers. V oting shall be 
by secret ballot.
 (d) The preparation and issuance of ballot papers, provision of ballot boxes and counting of votes are the responsibility of 
the Senior Vice President and his/her decision on the validity of any nomination paper, eligibility of any candidate, the right 
of voting of any member etc. shall be the final. He/she may appoint not more than five members of the Fellow Member 
category who are not candidates, for his assistance.
(e) A candidate may be nominated for more than one office. However, if elected for one office, votes cast for him for any 
other office shall be disregarded. In the operation of this constitution, the counting of votes in respect of the other offices 
of honorary Senior Vice President, honorary Vice President, honorary co-Secretary, honorary Treasurer and honorary 
assistant Treasurer shall be carried out according to the said order.
18. The financial year of the council shall be from 01
st of January to 31st of december.
19. Members of the Board of Governors shall hold office from the date of the Annual General Meeting at which they are 
elected until the date of the annual General meeting at which their successors are elected.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
8a
20. (a) The annual General meeting of the members of the council shall be held before the end of march in every year. The 
following businesses shall be included in to the Agenda of the Annual General Meeting:
  (i)   Election of office bearers of the Board of Governors and Committee Members. 
  (ii)  adoption of the report of annual General meeting, annual report and the Statement of accounts audited  
 for the previous year. 
  (iii) Other businesses duly informed of in advance.
(b) The date, time and venue of the annual General meeting and the other General meetings shall be intimated to all the 
members at least ten (10) days in advance.
(c)  if the annual General meeting is not held before the end of march, a Special General meeting of council members 
shall be convened as per article 21 of this Set of rules to make provisions to convene the annual General meeting and to 
conduct all its proceedings.
 (d) The Board shall make arrangements to hold at least three General meetings of council members in addition to the annual 
General meeting.
(e) at the event of failure to hold the annual General meeting in compliance with the period in terms of article 20(c) due 
to pandemic condition or any other distress situation nationally or internationally, arrangements shall be made to hold the 
relevant annual General meeting during the prescribed period in the following year when such situation is become normal 
after the crisis.  
Otherwise, at the event of failure to hold the meetings of the council, virtual meetings shall be conducted. 
 (f) Nevertheless, the incidental facts thereof shall be considered as duly prevailed.
  
The period of the office of the Board of Governors in such an instance shall be considered as official until electing the 
successive Board of Governors holding the relevant General meeting. furthermore, the payment of annual membership fees 
shall not be inactive by implementing the article 20 (e).  
21. (a) The honorary co- secretary shall convene a special General meeting of council members when directed by the 
Honorary President or on receipt of a written request signed by at least fifteen incorporated members to consider any matter 
specifically mentioned in such request.
 (b) The date, time and venue and the nature of businesses of such meetings shall be intimated to all the members at least 
three days in advance.
22. (a) The honorary President shall preside over at all meetings of council members. in his absence, the honorary immediate 
past President or honorary Senior Vice President or honorary Vice President or in their absence, a member of the Board of 
Governors elected by the members present shall chair the meeting. 
(b) The quorum required for a meeting of Council members shall be one fourth of the incorporated membership. If a quorum 
is not present within half an hour from the appointed time of the meeting, the meeting shall be suspended and if a quorum 
is not present within half an hour from the time of commencement of the suspended meeting, the number present shall 
constitute the quorum.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
9a
(c) although non-incorporated members may attend and participate in all meetings, they shall vote only in the manner 
specified in Article 12 of this constitution.
23. (a) The Board of Governors shall appoint a Subcommittee of Studies and may also appoint other Boards, committees 
or Sub committeesv for seeking advice and assistance regarding the objects or functions of the Board or any specific facts 
approved as the Board of Governors may deem appropriate.
 (b) The Subcommittee of Studies shall act with regard to archaeological studies of students, conducting the examinations 
and all other activities related thereto as specified in Sections 3(a), (b) and (e) of the Act. The President of the Council shall 
be an ex-officio member of the Sub Committee of Studies.
(c) The Board of archaeological education (Bare)
II appointed by the Board of Governors of the Sri Lanka council of 
Archaeologists shall be entrusted to conduct courses for qualifying examinations for eligibility for membership of the Council, 
to conduct examinations for such courses and to check and approve the Self-assessment report submitted by the applicants 
in order to enroll in to fellow membership. 
24. The council may award gold medals annually in recognition of distinguished services rendered during the respective 
year for the advancement of archaeology. The criteria get approved by the council from time to time for the purpose shall 
be followed (Schedule ii).
25. in the event of supplying service for an external party by a member who holds membership of the Sri Lanka council of 
archaeologists, archaeology consultation and service charges may be claimed as in Schedule iii below. 
26. (a) all archaeologists are bound to act and to use the title “archaeologist” as to safeguard the haughtiness of such title 
that awards only when entering the categories of fellow member, member and associate member of the Sri Lanka council of 
archaeologists. for this purpose, action shall be taken in compliance with the “code of conduct for archeologists” adopted 
at the General meeting on 29
th of march, 2019 by the Sri Lanka council of archaeologists.
(b) The title “archaeologist” which is only all rights reserved for the usage of the categories of fellow members, members 
and associate members of Sri Lanka council of archaeologists is not entitled to use in any way by any other person other 
than that of a person belongs to such categories of members of that council.   
(c) This Gazette extraordinary presented by the Sri Lanka council of archaeologists of the democratic Socialist republic of 
Sri Lanka all rights reserve the establishment and registration of any other council using the name of the aforesaid council 
established in terms of the Sri Lanka council of archaeologists (incorporated), No. 04 of 1992. 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
10a
SCHEDULE i
memBerShiP feeS aNd charGeS 
Membership Admission Fee Annual Membership Fee
Rs. Cents. Rs. Cents.
fellow member 2,000.00 2,000.00
member 1,250.00 1,250.00
associate member 1,000.00 1,000.00
registered member 750.00 750.00
Student member 500.00 500.00
SCHEDULE ii 
Criteria for the Gold medals awarded by Sri Lanka Council of Archeologists 
 (ii-1)    Shall be a Sri Lankan.
 (ii-2)    Shall be a member of Sri Lanka council of archaeologists. 
 (ii-3)    Shall be a unique researcher in the relevant field. 
 (ii-4)    Shall engage in a National mission and shall have socialized the said feasibilities. 
 (ii-5)    Shall have published research volumes and research papers.
 (ii-6)    Shall be a premier in modern knowledge as well as investigation in the field.
 (ii-7)    Such researches shall lead for a turning point of the field and landmarks of the research shall have been used for the 
social usage.
 (ii-8)    Shall be a dexterous person in the field as well as of moral character.
 (ii-9)    Shall be a distinguished person both practically and theoretically.
 (ii-10)  Subjecting for assessment as a professional as well as a member of the Council in addition to the field will be 
considered as an added qualification. (Ex. Such as Museum, Teaching etc.)  
(ii-11)   excluding the criteria in (from ii-1 to ii-10) above, Gold medals may annually be awarded to the archaeologists, 
who held the office of Honorary Presidents of the Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists in the previous years, for the 
service rendered for the upliftment of the field of Archeology as well as the Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists.  
The following procedure shall be got applicable for the purpose by Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists.
 (ii – a) To appoint a committee by the Board of Governors of Sri Lanka council of archaeologists for awarding Gold medals.
 (ii – b) committee shall publicize the invitation of applications.
 (ii – c) invitation of nominations formally from applicants.
 (ii – d) acceptance of applications through a complete Bio data sheet.
 (ii –e) The period to be considered for awarding Gold medals shall be past three years. awarding shall be made per year 
subject to the decision of the Board of Governors after the assessment of said three years.  

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'03
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2023
11a
(ii –f)  To obtain the agreement from the majority of committee members for awarding medals
(ii –g)  Safeguarding all the information received to the committee shall be a responsibility of the committee.  
 SCHEDULE iii 
The archaeological consultation and service charges in rendering service for an external party by a member of each membership 
are as follows.  
Membership Consultation and Service charges
fellow member 5,000.00
member 4,000.00
associate member 3,000.00
registered member 2,000.00
Student member 1,000.00
 
Definitions:
I - having held the active membership means participating in annual General meetings held by Sri Lanka council of 
archaeologists and has continuously made the payment of annual membership fee payable by every member. 
II - Board of archaeological education (BARE)
 means the Special Board of education appointed by Sri Lanka council of 
archaeologists for the purpose of conducting courses related to the examinations of obtaining eligibility for the membership 
of the council, holding examinations of those courses and checking & approving the Self-assessment report submitted by 
the applicants for enrolment in to the fellow membership.  
 
III - The Postgraduate Degree in this context refers to two-year ma, mSc or mPhil or Phd. 
IV - The Professional Archaeologist means the members (Those who are eligible in the categories of fellow members, 
members and associate members of the council.) who are entitled to bear, obtain and use the title “ archaeologist” in terms of 
the Section 13 (1) of the Sri Lanka council of archaeologists (incorporated)  act and article 26 (b) of this new Set of rules.   
V - A Sub Committee, Boards or Sub Committees are the committees appointed by the Board of Governors for giving 
instructions and assistance for the objectives of the Board of Governors or the duties of the Board or any accepted special facts.
eOG 03-0024
PrinTeD aT The DeParTMenT oF goVernMenT PrinTing,  sri lanKa.