

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2199$10 - 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 27 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2020'10'27
No. 2199/10  - TUESDAY ,  OCTOBER   27,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G  33197 — 25 (10/2020)
SERVICE   MINUTE   OF   THE   SRI   LANKA   AYURVEDIC   MEDICAL   SERVICE
FOLLOWING Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service is substituted without prejudice to any action
taken or purported to have been taken in terms of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service published
in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 924/2 dated 20
th of May 1996 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and
amendments made thereto from time to time.
                                                                                  By order of the Public Service Commission,
M. A. B. DAYA SENARATH,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
26th October, 2020.
01. Effective Date:
This Service Minute shall come into force with effect from 27.10.2020
02. Appointing Authorit y: Public Service Commission or Health Service Committee to whom the Public Service
Commission has delegated powers.
03. Category/ Categories of Service :
3.1 Category of  Service  : Medical Officer
Executive
Senior Executive

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
2A
3.2 Grades : Medical Officer  - Preliminary Grade
Grade II
Grade I
Executive - Administrative Grade I
Administrative Grade II
Senior Executive - Specialist Grade
04. Role :
The general role of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service is to work in collaboration with the Divisions of
Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Indigenous Therapy with a view to giving effect to the aspects of carrying out the
services of prevention and treatment of diseases together with specialized services, forecasting the issues
concerning health, planning, implementation and evaluation, health education, research activities, community health
activities, manufacturing, management and standardization of drugs, cultivation of herbs and management of
Ayurvedic services by identifying the causative factors detrimental to health through the Ayurvedic Medical Service
which is an All Island Service.
05. Salaries
5.1 Salary Code:
SL 2 - 2016 (Preliminary Grade, Grade II and Grade I)
SL 1 - 2016 (Administrative Grade II Grade I)
SL 3 - 2016 (Specialist Grade)
5.2 Salary Scale   :
SL 2- 2016 - Rs. 52955 - 3X 1335 - 7X 1345 - 2X1630 - 16X2170 - 104355
SL 1- 2016 - Rs. 47615 - 10 X 1335 - 8 X1630 - 17 X 2170 - 110895
SL 3- 2016 - Rs. 88000 - 12 X 2700 - 120400
5.3 Initial salary step of the grade system:
Grade Salary Code Initial salary step Initial salary
point (Rs.)
Preliminary Grade SL 2 – 2016 Step 02 Rs. 54, 290
Grade II SL 2 – 2016 Step 05 Rs. 58, 305
Grade I SL 2 – 2016 Step 14 Rs. 71, 805
Administrative Grade II SL 1 – 2016 Step 12 Rs. 62, 595
Administrative Grade I SL 1 – 2016 Step 20 Rs. 76, 175
Specialist Grade SL 3 – 2016 Step 01 Rs. 88, 000

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
3A
06. Posts associated with the service
6.1 Approved grades, titles of posts and number of posts
Grades for which post T itle of posts Number of
are approved approved posts
Administrative Grade I Director - Ayurveda Teaching Hospitals 04
Director - Ayurveda Research Hospitals 04
Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda 09
Administrative Grade II Deputy Director - Ayurveda Teaching Hospitals 02
Director – Ayurveda Research Hospitals 01
Provincial Deputy/ Assistant Commissioner
of Ayurveda 10
Director - Provincial Ayurveda Hospitals 03
Assistant Commissioner (Technical) 01
Assistant Director (Technical Education) 01
Specialist Medical Officer Specialist Medical Officer 121
Grade
Medical Officer Grade I Medical Officer in Charge 04
Supervisory Community Health Medical
Officer 09
Medical Superintendent (Ayurveda) 24
Medical Officer in Charge – (Drug
Manufacturing Unit) 11
Chief Municipal Ayurvedic Medical Officer 02
Medical Officer Preliminary Scientist  (Botany/ Chemistry) 02
Grade and Grade II Ayurvedic Community Health Medical Officer 22
Lecturer 05
Medical Officer (Education ) 05
Medical Officer (Investigation) 01
Ayurvedic Medical Officer 1680
Community Health Medical Officer 832

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
4A
6.2 Consolidated number of officers:
Administrative Grade I 17
Administrative Grade II 18
Specialist Medical Officer Grade 121
Medical Officer Grade I 50
Medical Officer Preliminary Grade and Grade II  2547
Preliminary Grade, Grades II and I are considered as belonging to the number of consolidated officers for the
purpose of grade to grade promotion.
6.3 Nature of the post/ posts : Permanent and pensionable
           Note – Shall be subject to the policy decisions made by the government on the pension scheme in future.
07. Method of recruitment
7.1 Percentages of recruitment  :
Stream Percentage
Open 100 %
Limited Not applicable
Merit Not applicable
7.2 Open recruitment
7.2.1 Grade at recruitment: Preliminary Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service
7.2.2 Qualifications:
7.2.2.1 Educational qualifications:
Should have obtained one year hospital intern training following a five year degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/
Unani medicine from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission.
7.2.2.2 Professional qualifications:
Should have obtained the certificate of registration in Ayurvedic Medical Council of Sri Lanka
7.2.2.3 Experience:    Not applicable
7.2.2.4 Physical fitness:
Every candidate should be in an adequately sound physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of
Island and discharge duties in the relevant post.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
5A
7.2.2.5 Other    :
(a) Should be a citizen in Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be of an excellent moral character and sound physical fitness.
(c) Should have completed in every respect the qualifications referred to in 7.2.2 to 7.2.3 stated in
the notice calling for applications as qualifications to be satisfied for recruitment to the post.
7.2.3 Age
7.2.3.1 Minimum limit :  22 years
7.2.3.2 Maximum limit :  45 years
7.2.4 Method of recruitment:
Graduates with degree in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani from a University recognized by the University Grants
Commission will be recruited according to the order of the merit list issued by the University Grants
Commission. Where the graduates related to several years are vying as applicants, recruitments will be made
through a general interview giving priority to such order based on merit list of the respective years.
7.2.4.1 Authority Appointing the Board of General Interview: By the Appointing Authority (The general interview
will be held for the purpose of verifying as to whether the candidates have fulfilled the  qualifications
and are of sound physical and mental fitness and no marks will be given at the interview.)
7.2.5 Method of inviting application:
By publishing notices in government gazette or through the notices published in public newspapers and the
website.
08.  Efficiency Bar
8.1
Which of the Before how many years Nature of Efficiency Bar:
Efficiency Bar the Efficiency Bar W ritten/ Professional/
is to be passed Certificate Courses/ Other
1
st Efficiency Bar Before a lapse of 03 years upon A written examination.
appointment to Preliminary The Syllabus is in Appendix I.
Grade of the Ayurvedic
Medical Service
8.2 Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examinations are conducted  : Twice a year
8.3 Authority conducting the Efficiency Bar Examinations   :
By the Commissioner General of Examinations or an institution approved by Secretary to the Ministry In charge
of the subject of Indigenous Medicine on whom the administrative powers have been delegated by the Public
Service Commission.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
6A
09. Language proficiency
9.1
Language Pr oficiency to be acquired
Official Language
Other Official Language
10. Grade Promotions
10.1 Pr omotion to Grade II from Preliminary Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service
10.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of 02 years in Preliminary Grade and
earned two (02) salary increments.
(ii) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory or higher level during a period of two (02) years
preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approved procedure of the performance appraisal.
(iii) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
10.1.2 Method of Promotion:
When the officers fulfilling the qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the Appointing
Authority, promotion to Grade II will be made by the Appointing Authority with effect from the date on
which they meet with such qualifications after the scrutiny of qualifications.
10.2 Pr omotion to Grade I from Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service
10.2.1 Promotion of Medical Officers with Postgraduate Degree/ Postgraduate Diploma
Qualifications to be fulfilled
(i) Should have been confirmed in the appointment.
(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of six (06) years in Grade II of the
category of service and earned six (06) salary increments during the relevant period.
(iii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission Circular
No. 01/2020.
(iv) Should have obtained a postgraduate diploma or a higher postgraduate degree from a University or an
Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as stated in Appendix II of the Service
Minute and such qualification should be certified by the Board of Management of such Postgraduate
Institute.
Officers joined the service through a language other than an official
language should acquire the prescribed official language  proficiency
during the period of probation. It is sufficient to  obtain an ordinary
pass for the subject of mother tongue in the G.C.E. (O/L).
Should acquire the language proficiency at the respective level in terms
of the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and the Circulars
incidental thereto.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
7A
(v) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
(vi) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the respective level during the prescribed
period.
10.2.2 Promotion of Medical Officers who do not possess Postgraduate Degree/ Postgraduate Diploma
Qualifications to be fulfilled
(i) Should have been confirmed in the appointment
(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of twelve (12) years in Grade II of the
category of service and earned twelve (12) salary increments during the relevant period.
(iii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission Circular
No. 01/2020.
(iv) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
(v) Should have acquired the other language proficiency at the respective level during the prescribed period.
10.2.3 Method of Promotion:
When the officers fulfilling the qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the Appointing
Authority, promotion to Grade I will be made by the Appointing Authority with effect from the date on which
they meet with such qualifications after the scrutiny of qualifications.
10.3 Pr omotion to Administrative Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service
10.3.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of eight (08) years in Grade II of the
Ayurvedic Medical Service and earned eight (08) salary increments or be a Grade I Officer of the Ayurvedic
Medical Service
(ii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission Circular
No. 01/2020.
(iii) Should have obtained a Postgraduate Diploma in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals as stated in
Appendix III.
(iv) Should have completed a period of service not less than 03 years as an Officer in Charge/ Medical
Superintendent in a Research/ Teaching Ayurveda Hospital, District Ayurveda Hospital or Rural Ayurveda
Hospital approved by the Department of Management Services. (The period of service following a
formal appointment or an acting appointment to a post belonging to Administrative Grade II or I of the
Ayurvedic Medical Service will also be considered.)
10.3.2 Method of Promotion
Applications are invited from among Ayurvedic Medical Officers in service who have satisfied qualifications
in 10.3.1 at the time when vacancies occur in the posts (as at 01
st of January and 01st of July every year). The
Appointing Authority will appoint a Board of Interview and approve the relevant marking scheme and action
will accordingly be taken to make promotions after obtaining the approval of the Appointing Authority following
the scrutiny of qualifications of the candidates by the relevant Board of Interview and the submission of the
recommendations of such Board of Interview to the Appointing Authority with the recommendation of the
Secretary of the Ministry.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
8A
10.4 Pr omotion to Administrative Grade I from Administrative Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service
10.4.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled
(i) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service of 03 years in Administrative Grade II of the
Ayurvedic Medical Service and earned three (03) salary increments.
(ii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission Circular
No. 01/2020.
(iii) Should have obtained a Postgraduate Degree in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission as stated in Appendix III.
10.4.2 Method of Promotion
Applications are invited from among Ayurvedic Medical Officers in service who have satisfied qualifications
stated in 10.4.1 at the time when vacancies occur in the posts (as at 01 st of January and 01 st of July every
year). The Appointing Authority will appoint a Board of Interview and approve the relevant marking scheme
and action will accordingly be taken to make promotions after obtaining the approval of the Appointing
Authority following the scrutiny of qualifications of the candidates by the relevant Board of Interview and
the submission of the recommendations of such Board of Interview to the Appointing Authority with the
recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry.
10.5 Pr omotion to Specialist Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service
10.5.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled
(i) Should be an Ayurvedic Medical Officer in Grade II or above grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service
(ii) Should have obtained a full time Postgraduate Degree of Doctor of Medicine in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani or
Master of Surgery in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani in a subject stated in Appendix IV for a period of not less than
03 years in a local or foreign university recognized by the Government of Sri Lanka or University Grants
Commission and such qualification should be certified by the Board of Management of such Postgraduate
Institute .
(iii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission Circular  No. 01/2020.
(iii) Should have obtained a Board Certificate of the Board of Study established in a Postgraduate Institute of
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani recognized by the University Grants Commission following a full time clinical and
research training for a period of not less than 02 years under supervision of a Specialist Medical Officer of
the Department of Ayurveda relating to a subject pursued after completion of qualifications stated in I and II
of 10.5.1. above.
Note :- Promotions are made to the Specialist Grade considering only the qualification of full time clinical and research
training for a period of not less than 02 years under supervision of a Specialist Medical Officer of the Department
of Ayurveda relating to a subject pursued after completion of the qualifications stated in 10.5.1 (i) to 10.5.1. (iii)
above until the Boards of Study referred to in 10.5.1 (iv) are established.
10.5.2 Method of promotion
Applications are invited from among Ayurvedic Medical Officers in service who have satisfied qualifications
stated in 10.5.1 at the time when vacancies occur in the posts (as at 01
st of January and 01 st of July every
year). The Appointing Authority will appoint a Board of Interview and approve the relevant marking scheme
and action will accordingly be taken to make promotions after obtaining the approval of the Appointing
Authority following the scrutiny of qualifications of the candidates by the relevant Board of Interview and
the submission of the recommendations of such Board of Interview to the Appointing Authority with the
recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
9A
11.  Appointment to posts:  Given in Appendix V
12.  Conditions of Service:
12.1 Conditions for Confirmation in Service
Ayurvedic Medical Officers recruited to Preliminary Grade are subject to a period of probation of three years.
Confirmation in appointment will be made in terms of rules and regulations of the Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission.
12.1.2  It is compulsory to fulfill the following qualifications for confirmation in appointment :
(i) Should have a satisfactory service during the period of probation,
(ii) Should have earned all due salary increments during the period of probation,
(iii) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar examination.
12.2 In addition to the provisions specified in this Minute, every officer of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service is
subject to the provisions of V olumes I and II of the Establishments Code, provisions of Financial Regulations,
Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and rules and regulations enacted by the Government from time to
time and also to the Ministerial and Departmental Orders and Circulars.
12.3 Any officer recruited to the Ayurvedic Medical Service is subject to serve in any duty station of the Island as they are
recruited to the Service to serve in the posts Island-wide.
12.4 T ransfers
Transfers of all Ayurvedic Medical Officers are made in terms of the Scheme of Transfer approved by the Public
Service Commission.
13. Interpretations and Definitions
(a) “Service Minute” means the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service.
(b) “Commission ” means the Public Service Commission.
(c) “ Service” means the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service.
(d) “Secretary of the Ministry” means the Secretary of the Line Ministry in charge of the subject of Indigenous
Medicine.
(e) “Commissioner of Ayurveda” means the Head of the Department of Ayurveda.
(f) “Ministry” means the Line Ministry in charge of the subject of Indigenous Medicine.
(g) “Period of Active Service” means the period of service during which an officer was drawing the salaries
applicable to his post inclusive of the periods of no pay leave the Cabinet of Ministers, as a policy, has
specifically stated to have reckoned as being a period of active service other than the periods of no pay leave.
14. Absorption into the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service
i. The period of Service will be counted on the basis of the date of appointment to each post. However, owing to the
absorption, the date of increment of the person concerned should not be changed and such date should be in force
unchanged as the date of increment that existed prior to the absorption. Likewise, due to the reason that the new
salary step of the person concerned is in correspondence with his last drawn salary at the salary conversion, he
should not be placed on the next higher salary step either in terms of Section 4.4 of Chapter VII of the Establishments
Code.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
10A
ii. The provisions of absorption will be applicable only to those who are in Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective
date of this Service Minute. All Ayurvedic Medical Officers drawing salaries under salary scales given in the Public
Administration Circular 03/2016 and Circulars incidental thereto on the due date will be absorbed as follows subject
to the provisions in Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.
Officers of the Ayurvedic Medical Service will be absorbed as follows :
(a) Officers serving in Preliminary Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of this
Service Minute will be absorbed into Preliminary Grade of the Service
(b) Officers serving in Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of this Service Minute
will be absorbed into Grade II of the Service.
(c) Officers serving in Grade I of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of this Service Minute
will be absorbed into Grade I of the Service.
(d) Officers serving in Specialist Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of this Service
Minute will be absorbed into Specialist Grade of the Service.
15.  Interim Provisions
15.1 The provisions of absorption into the Preliminary Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service set out in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 924/2 of 20.05.1996 shall remain in force as it was until the absorption into the Preliminary
Grade of the last Ayurvedic Medical Officer holding the Diploma out of the holders of Diploma in Ayurveda recruited
in terms of the Service Minute effective from 01.01.1996.
15.2 These interim provisions will be applicable only to those officers recruited under the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 924/2 of 20.05.1996 that was in force prior to
the new service being effective.
 
16.  Matters not provided for:
        Any matter not provided for in this Minute will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
17. Other:
        In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Service Minute, the Sinhala text
      shall prevail.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
11A
Appendix  I
1.1 Name of the Examination : Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka    Ayurvedic
Medical Service
1.2 Particulars of the Examination:
Question Paper Duration T otal marks Pass marks
1. Monetary Systems 02 hrs. 100 40
2. Establishments Code and Procedural Rules 02 hrs. 100 40
3. Hospital Administration 02 hrs. 100 40
1.3 Syllabus of the Examination :
Title of the question paper Syllabus
1. Monetary Systems
2. Establishments Code and
Procedural Rules
3. Hospital Administration
(a) V olume I of Financial Regulations of  the Government of
Sri Lanka (Excluding Chapter X)
(b) Establishments Code and Procedural Rules of the Public
Service Commission
(a) General rules and regulations governing the hospitals
(b) Keeping the hospitals clean
(c) Rules and regulations governing the patients
(d) Methods of obtaining prescribed foods and beverages for
patients
(e) Monitoring of the drug manufacturing plants
(f) Rules and regulations governing the admission of patients
(g) Knowledge on the duties assigned to higher medical
designations to minor employees
(h) General administrative regulations of the Department of
Ayurveda
(i) Regulations relating to the maintenance of accounts,
documents and books of the stores of the Department of
Ayurveda
(j) Procedure of Manual of the Department of Ayurveda

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
12A
Appendix II
Ayurvedic Medical Officers should have followed a Postgraduate Diploma for a period of at least one academic year or a
higher degree pertaining to the following subject areas to be promoted to Grade I of the Ayurvedic Medical Service set out
in this Minute. This Postgraduate Diploma/ Postgraduate Degree should be obtained from a University/ Postgraduate
Institute recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Subjects recommended:
1) Surgery - Surgi cal therapy including ulcer therapy, burn therapy, fractures, ulcer
treatment, general surgical therapy, caustic therapy, Agnikarma or Thermal
Micro cautery, anal disorders, disorders of urinary system, leech therapy
2) ENT - Dental therapy, ophthalmology, headaches,  general ENT Ophthalmology
3) Physical therapy - Physiotherapeutical diseases including general physiotherapy, prevention of
diseases and psychotherapy, Panchakarma, nervous illnesses, dermatological
illnesses, joint diseases
4) Demonology - Demonological systems of treatment, astrology, Sathwawaja and Daiwa
Vyapasra therapy
5) Pediatrics - Paediatric therapy, obstetrics,  gynecologic diseases
6) Toxicology - T reatment of diseases caused by poison, general toxicology
7) Community Medicine - General therapy of community medicine, Community Medicine and Yoga
therapy
8) Pharmacology - Division of taste, Pharmacology, Bhishhya Kalana
9) Rasayana-tantra 
10) Aphrodisiac medicine
11) Management of Ayurveda Hospitals
12) Those who have obtained Postgraduate Degrees or Postgraduate Diplomas in other subjects except the above 11
subjects with prior approval of the Line Ministry will be considered for promotion to Grade I upon recommendations
of a three member Committee appointed by the Secretary of the Line Ministry.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
13A
Appendix   III
Administrative Grade I
Should have obtained a Postgraduate Degree in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals for a period of not less than two years
from a local or foreign higher educational institution, Postgraduate Institute or a University recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
Administrative Grade II
Should have obtained a Postgraduate Diploma in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals from a local or foreign higher educational
institution, Postgraduate Institute or a University recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Appendix   IV
Specialist Grade
The term “Medical Specialist” means  a person who have followed a full time postgraduate degree for a period of not less than
3 years in any of the following subjects from a local or foreign University recognized by the Government of Sri Lanka and the
University Grants Commission in accordance with the system of medicine defined as “Ayurveda” in the Ayurveda Act, No.
31 of 1961 and obtained a Board Certificate from a Board of Study established in a Postgraduate Institute of Ayurveda/
Siddha/ Unani recognized by the University Grants Commission after obtaining a full time clinical/ research training relating
to the subject for a period of not less than 02 years under supervision of a Specialist Medical Officer.
(1)  General Ayurveda/ Siddha / Unani Medicine
(2) Community Medicine
(3) Materia Medica
(4) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Surgery
(5) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani ENT and Ophthalmology Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani
(6) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Pediatrics
(7) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Gynecology and Obstetrics
(8) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Demenology
(9) Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Toxicology
(10) Indigenous Medicine
Apart from this, the MD/ MS postgraduate degrees in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani to be awarded in future for the supplementary
subjects of 10 main subjects referred to above are also recommended for the Specialist Grade.
Specialization Recognized qualifications
1. Physical therapy Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of following fields:
Physical Therapy (General Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani Medicine), Physical Therapy
(Panchakarma), Physical Therapy (General Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani),
Panchakarma, Pathology, Rejuvenation and Aphrodisiac
2. Community Medicine Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of following
fieldsAyurveda/Siddha/Unani Community Medicine, Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani
Nutrition
3. Pharmacology Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of following
fields:
Ayurveda/ Unani Pharmacology, Ayurveda/Siddha/ Unani Pharmaceutics,
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Alchemy)

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 27.10.2020
14A
4. Surgery Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one following
fields :
Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani Surgery, Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Anesthesiology,
Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani Para Surgical Procedures
5. ENT Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one following
field :
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani ENT, Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Ophthalmology,
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Oral Diseases
6. Paediatrics Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one following
field :
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Pediatrics
7. Gynecology and Obstetrics Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one following
field :
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Gynecology and Obstetrics
8. Demonology Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one following
field :
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Demonology and Psychiatry
9. Toxicology Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one following
field :
Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Toxicology
10. Indigenous Therapy Should obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one following
field :
Fracture therapy, Ulcer therapy, Burn therapy, Acupuncture, Eye treatment,
Snake bite treatment and
Venom therapy
In addition to the above postgraduate qualifications, following qualifications are also recommended for the promotion of
Medical Officer (Research) category of the Ayurveda Research Institute and the Medical Officer (Education) category of
the National Institute of Indigenous Medicine to the Specialist Grade.
Should have obtained the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of the fields of Basic Principles of Ayurveda and
Anatomy and Physiology ( Sharira Vingnana).
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.