

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
1A
wxl 1798$12 - 2013 fmnrjdß ui 18 jeks i÷od - 2013'02'18
No. 1798/12  - MONDAY ,  FEBRUARY 18,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CIVIL  A VIATION  ACT,  No.  14  OF  2010
Notice under Section 14(3)
APPROVAL  OF  MASTERPLAN OF  MATTALA  RAJAPAKSA  INTERNATIONAL  AIRPORT
MEMBERS  of the public are hereby notified that in terms of powers vested under Section 14 of the Civil Aviation  Act, No.
14 of 2010, the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka has granted approval for the Master Plan of Mattala Rajapaksa International
Airport located in administrative areas of Hambantota and Lunugamvehera Divisional Secretariats of the Southern Province
subject to the following terms and conditions ;-
1. An airport Master Plan is a comprehensive study of an Airport and usually describes the short-term, medium-term
and long-term development plans to meet future aviation demand and it is the strategy of the applicant for Master Plan for
the development of the Airport. The goal of a Master Plan is to provide the framework needed to guide future Airport
Development that will cost-effectively satisfy aviation demand, while considering potential environmental and socioeconomic
impacts. In this context, the Airport and Aviation Services (SL) Ltd. (AASL) shall ensure that the Master Plan of Mattala
Rajapaksa International Airport, Hambantota is kept current incessantly by effecting necessary revisions or updates as may
be required, after due diligence.
2. In the process of revision or updating the Mater Plan, the CAA requires the AASL to be guided by Aviation
Traffic forecasts and also to consider the possible environmentla and socioeconomic costs associated with alternative
development concepts, and the possible means of avoiding, minimizing, or mitigating impacts to sensitive resources at the
appropriate level of detail in respect of future facility planning.
3. The AASL shall ensure through periodic review and necessary updates where required, that the Master Plan of
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport continues to meet at least the following objectives ;
(a) The Master Plan has documented the issues that the proposed development will address ;
(b) The Master Plan has justified the proposed development through appropriate technical, economic, and
environmental investigation of concepts and alternatives ;
(c) The Master Plan has provided and effective graphic presentation of the development of the Airport and
anticipated land uses in the vicinity of the Airport ;
(d) The Master Plan has established a realistic schedule for the implementation of the development Proposed
in the Plan particularly the short-term Ccapital improvement program ;
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .02.18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
2A
(e) The Master Plan has proposed an achievable financial plan to support the implementation schedule ;
(f) The Master Plan has provided sufficient project definition and detail for subsequent environmental evaluations
that may be required before commencement of any future expansion of the Airport ;
(g) The Master Plan has presented a plan that adequately addresses the issues and satisfies the applicable
Local Governmental, Provincial Council and State Regulations which are current ;
(h) The Master Plan has documented policies and future aeronautical demand to support Municipal or Local
deliberations on spending, debt, land use controls, and other policies necessary to preserve the integrity of
the Airport and its surroundings ; and
(i) The Master Plan has set the stage and established an appropriate framework for a continuing planning
process. Such a process should monitor key conditions and permit changes in plan recommendations as
required.
4. AASL shall establish and maintain on continuing basis the Airport Layout Plan (ALP) Drawing Set Updates which
will reflect clearly actual or planned modifications to the Airport and Significant Off-Airport Development. An accompanying
ALP Narrative Report should explain and document those changes and contain at least the following elements :
(a) Basic aeronautical forecasts ;
(b) Basis for the proposed items of development ;
(c) Rationale for unusual design features and/or modifications to CAA Airport Design Standards ;
(d) Summary of the various stages of Airport Development and layout sketches of the major items of development
in each stage.
An ALP Drawing Set update is an appropriate alternative to a full Master Plan whenever the fundamental
assumptions of the previous Master Plan have not changed. If there have not been any major changes in
Airport activity or improvements that have had unanticipated consequences, a Master Plan update is not
necessary. Another situation where only an ALP update would be appropriate is the examination of a single
development item, such as runway safety area imporvements. As indicated above, an ALP update will
typically involve fewer elements than a full Master plan, including only the aviation demand forecasts, an
assessment of facility requirements, a facility implementation and financing Plan, and an Airport Layout Plan
drawing set. If additional steps are required to complete the ALP update, a full Master Plan study should be
performed.
5. It should be noted that the contents in the Airport Master Plan represent the views, policies and development
plans of the AASL and shall not be construed as the official stance or views of the CAA. Approval of the Master Plan by the
CAA does not constitute a commitment on the part of the State to participate in any development depicted in the plan, nor
does it indicate that the proposed development is environmentally acceptable in accordance with appropriate public law. The
CAA reviews all elements of the Master Plan to ensure that sound planning techniques have been applied and approves only
the following elements of Airport Master Plan :
(a) Forecasts of Demand-which ensures that the underlying assumptions and forecast methodologies are
appropriate ;
(b) Airport Layout Plan - All Airport Development must be done in accordance with a CAA-approved ALP. CAA
approval of the ALP indicates that the existing facilities and proposed development depicted on the ALP
conforms to the CAA  Airport design standards in effect at the time of the approval or that an approved
modification to standard had been issued. Such approval also indicates that the CAA finds the proposed
development to be safe, secured and efficient.
6. The AASL is required to effect any change in the Master Plan at any stage that would be suggested by the CAA
to ensure safe, secure and efficient operation of the Airport.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
3A
A copy of the approved Master Plan of Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport is available for the reference of  the
Members of the Public at the Library, Civil Aviation Authority, No. 4., Hunupitiya Road, Colombo 02.
Attention of the Members of Public is also drawn to Hambantota International Airport Protected Area Order No. 01
of 2012 made by Hon. Minister of Civil Aviation and published in Government Gazette Extra ordinary No. 1777/40 dated 28th
September, 2012 and the Zoning Instructions applicable to Protected Area issued by Director General of Civil Aviation in
Gazette No. 1785 dated 16th November, 2012.
     By Order of Civil Aviation Authority of Sir Lanka
H. M. C. N
IMALSIRI,
Director General of Civil Aviation and
Chief Executive Officer.
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka.
No. 4, Hunupitiya Road,
Colombo 02,
18th February 2013.
03 - 321
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.