

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 8.25       Postage : Rs. 4.50
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 21, 2003
[Certified on 20th March, 2003]
Printed on the Order of Government
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (HEARING AND
DETERMINATION OF PROCEEDING)
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT,  No.  13  OF  2003
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA

<!-- page 2 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
1
[Certified on 20th March, 2003]
L.D.—O. 53/2002
A
N  A CT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  EXPEDITIOUS  HEARING  AND
DETERMINA TION  OF  APPLICATIONS  AND  REFERENCES  MADE  UNDER
THE  INDUSTRIAL  D ISPUTES  A CT  AND  THE  TERMINATION  OF
EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN  (SPECIAL  PROVISIONS ) ACT ; TO  AMEND
THE  INDUSTRIAL  D ISPUTES  A CT  AND  THE  TERMINATION  OF
EMPLOYMENT  OF  W ORKMEN  (SPECIAL  PROVISIONS ) ACT , AND  FOR
MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
WHEREAS it has become necessary to ensure an expeditious
disposal of applications and references made under the
Industrial Disputes Act and the Termination of Employment
of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, in order that parties to
such applications and references may be able to obtain
decisions in respect of the same within a short period of time :
AND WHEREAS to facilitate such expeditious disposal it is
considered desirable to stipulate time frames in respect of the
procedure adopted in the determination of applications made
to labour tribunals and the Commissioner and references made
to an arbitrator, and in respect of the hearing and deciding of
appeals lodged against orders made on such applications :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Disputes (Hearing
and Determination of Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 13 of 2003, and shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.
D ETERMINATION  OF  PROCEEDINGS  BEFORE  LABOUR  TRIBUNALS
2. (1) Upon receipt by a labour tribunal of an application
under section 31B  of the Industrial Disputes Act, it shall be
the duty of the Assistant Secretary of such labour tribunal, if
such application is in due form, to forthwith and in any event
2—H 016856—5,600 (2002/10)
Assistant
Secretary to
forward copy of
application to the
employer &c.,
Short title and
date of operation.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
2
within three working days of the date of receipt of such
application, to forward a copy thereof to the employer in
respect of whom such application is made, and shall by written
notice require him to transmit within a period of twenty one
days of receipt of such notice, a statement in duplicate, setting
out his answer to the matter to which the application relates.
It shall be the duty of the employer to transmit the statement
required in duplicate to the Assistant Secretary within the
stipulated period.
(2) Within three working days of the date of receipt of
the statement referred to in subsection (1), it shall be the duty
of the Assistant Secretary to forward a copy of the statement
to the applicant and shall by written notice require the
applicant to transmit to him within a period of twentyone days
of receipt of such notice, a statement in duplicate setting out
the applicant’s reply thereto. It shall be the duty of the
applicant to transmit the statement required in duplicate to
the Assistant Secretary within the stipulated period.
(3) It shall be the duty of a labour tribunal not to permit
any extension of the periods referred to in subsection (1) and
(2), except for exceptional reasons to be recorded by the
tribunal.
(4) On receipt of the statement transmitted by the
applicant under subsection (2), it shall be the duty of the labour
tribunal to forthwith and in any event not later than three
working days after such date of receipt, to fix the application
for hearing and by a notice, inform all parties to the application
of such date.
(5) Where the employer or the applicant as the case may
be, fails to transmit the statement required under subsection
(1) or (2), it shall be the duty of the labour tribunal to forthwith
and in any event not later than three working days after the
date of such default, to fix the application for hearing and
inform by notice all parties to the application of such date.

<!-- page 4 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
3
Tribunal to
proceed in the
absence of any
party.
3. Where without sufficient cause being shown, a party
to an application before a labour tribunal fails to attend or is
not represented at any hearing of such tribunal, the tribunal
may proceed with the hearing and determination of the matter,
notwithstanding the absence of such party or any
representative of such party.
4. Notwithstanding anything in any written law to the
contrary, where an application made to a labour tribunal is
fixed for hearing and notice has been given to the parties to
such application, the labour tribunal shall proceed to hear such
application from day to day until its conclusion, and shall
not, except for exceptional reasons to be recorded by such
tribunal, permit any postponement of such hearing.
5. (1) It shall be the duty of a labour tribunal to whom an
application is made, to make all such inquiries into that
application and hear all such evidence as the tribunal may
consider necessary, and thereafter make such order as may
appear to the tribunal to be just and equitable, and such order
shall be made not later than four months from the date of the
making of such application.
(2) The order made under subsection (1) shall be
delivered openly in the tribunal.
(3) Notice of the date on which an order under subsection
(1) is to be made shall be given by the Assistant Secretary of
the tribunal to all the parties to the application.
(4) Save as provided for in section 31D  of the Industrial
Disputes Act, an order made by a labour tribunal shall not be
called in question in any court.
6. (1) A petition of appeal made under section 31D  of
the Industrial Disputes Act against an order made by a labour
tribunal, shall be filed within a period of thirty days (including
the day on which the order appealed from was made, but
excluding Sundays and Public Holidays) of the date of the
making of the order from which the appeal is preferred.
Filing, hearing
and decision on
appeals or
applications in
revision made
under section 31
D
of the Industrial
Disputes Act.
Powers and duties
of labour tribunals
in regard to
applications.
Postponement of
hearing not
permitted.

<!-- page 5 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
4
(2) An appeal preferred or an application in revision
made under section 31D  of the Industrial Disputes Act against
any order of a labour tribunal, shall be heard and decided
within four months of the date on which such appeal or
application was filed.
7. (1) Where an application is made to the Court of
Appeal under subsection (4) of section 31
D  of the Industrial
Disputes Act, for the issue of an order in the nature of a writ
of certiorari, prohibition, procedendo  or mandamus , against
the President of a labour tribunal in respect of an order made
by such President, the Court of Appeal shall hear and decide
such application within four months of the date on which such
application is made to the Court of Appeal.
(2) An appeal preferred to the Supreme Court against an
order made by the Court of Appeal  on any application referred
to in subsection (1), shall be made within one month of the
date on which such order is made and the Supreme Court
shall hear and determine such appeal within four months of
the date on which such appeal is filed in the Supreme Court.
8. An appeal made to the Supreme Court under section
31
DD  of the Industrial Disputes Act from an order of a High
Court established under Article 154P of the Constitution, shall
be heard and decided within four months of the date on which
such appeal is filed in the Supreme Court.
9. The provisions of the Evidence Ordinance shall not
apply to the conduct of proceedings before a labour tribunal
under this Act.
10. The service on any person of a notice, application or
other document issued under this Act, shall be effected by
hand or by registered post or by affixing such notice,
application or other document at the entrance of the last known
place of residence of such person.
Decision on
appeals made to
the Supreme
Court under
section 31
DD .
Evidence
Ordinance not to
apply.
Serving of notice,
application &c.,
under this Act.
Application for
writ made under
section 31
D  and
appeal from any
order made on
such application
to the Supreme
Court to be heard
and decided
within four
months.

<!-- page 6 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
5
D ETERMINATION  OF  APPLICA TIONS  MADE  UNDER  THE  TERMINA TION
OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  W ORKMEN  (SPECIAL  PROVISIONS ) ACT
11. In the exercise of his powers under section 2 of the
Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions)
Act, to grant or refuse approval to an employer to terminate
the scheduled employment of any workman, it shall be the
duty of the Commissioner to make his order within two
months of the date of receipt of the application from the
employer.
12. Where an application is made to the Commissioner
by a workman for an order under section 6 of the Termination
of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, it shall
be the duty of the Commissioner to make such order within
two months of the date of receipt of the application from the
workman.
13. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to make his
order under subsection (1) of section 6
A  of the Termination
of Employment of Workman (Special Provisions) Act, relating
to the payment of compensation to a workman, within two
months of the date of receipt of the application from the
workman.
D
ETERMINATION  OF  REFERENCES  MADE  TO  AN  ARBITRA TOR
14. Where an industrial dispute has been referred under
paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 3 or subsection (1)
of section 4 of the Industrial Disputes Act to an arbitrator for
settlement, it shall be the duty of such arbitrator to make his
award under section 17 of that Act, within three months of
the date of the making of such reference :
Order under
section 2 of the
Termination of
Employment of
workmen (Special
Provisions) Act, to
be made within
two months of
application.
Order under
section 6 of the
Termination of
Employment of
Workmen
(Special
Provisions) Act,
to be made
within two
months of
application.
Order under
section 6
A  of the
Termination of
Employment of
Workmen (Special
Provisions) Act, to
be made within
two months of
application.
An arbitrator to
make an award in
respect of a
reference under
the Industrial
Disputes Act,
within three
months of
reference.

<!-- page 7 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
6
Provided however that it shall be lawful for the arbitrator
to make his award at any time within a further period of two
months, if he is of the opinion that in the interests of an
effective settlement of the dispute such further period is
required in which event he shall record the reasons therefor.”
A
PPLICATIONS  MADE  TO  INTERPRET  AWARDS  OR  ORDERS  UNDER
INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT
15. A reference under section 34 of the Industrial
Disputes Act relating to the interpretation of any award or
order made by an arbitrator, labour tribunal or an Industrial
Court as the case may be, may be made within one month of
the date of the making of such award or order, and it shall be
the duty of the arbitrator, labour tribunal or the Industrial Court
as the case may be, to which such reference is being made, to
hear and determine such reference within one month of the
date of receipt of such reference.
D
ETERMINA TION  OF  PENDING  ACTION
16. (1) Where on the date of the coming into operation
of this Act, any application made to a labour tribunal under
section 31
B  of the Industrial Disputes Act, is pending before
such tribunal, it shall be the duty of the tribunal to make all
such inquiries into such application and hear all such evidence
as it may consider necessary, and make, not later than four
months from the date of the coming into operation of this
Act, such order as may appear to the tribunal to be just and
equitable.
(2) Where on the date of the coming into operation of
this Act, any proceedings under sections 2, 6 or 6
A  of the
Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions)
Act, is pending before the Commissioner, it shall be the duty
of the Commissioner to make his order under those sections
as relates to such proceedings, not later than one month from
the date of the coming into operation of this Act.
Reference under
section 34 of the
Industrial
Disputes Act to be
made within one
month of the order
or award.
Pending
proceedings.

<!-- page 8 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
7
(3) Where on the date of coming into operation of this
Act, any inquiry is pending before an arbitrator on a reference
made under paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 3 or
subsection (1) of section 4 of the Industrial Disputes Act, it
shall be the duty of such arbitrator to make his award on such
reference not later than two months from the date of coming
into operation of this Act.
17. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—
“Commissioner” shall have the same meaning as in the
Industrial Disputes Act ;
“Industrial Disputes Act” means the Industrial Disputes
Act, (Chapter. 131);
industrial dispute” shall have the same meaning as in
the Industrial Disputes Act ;
“labour tribunal” means a labour tribunal established
under section 31A  of the Industrial Disputes Act ;
“scheduled employment” and “workmen” shall have
the same meaning as in the Termination of
Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions)
Act ; and
“Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special
Provisions) Act” means the Termination of
Employment of Workmen (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 45 of 1971.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Industrial Disputes (Hearing and Determination of
Proceedings) (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 2003
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.