

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1816$12 - 2013 cqks ui 26 jeks nodod - 2013'06'26
No. 1816/12  -  WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  26,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
THE  PRINTING  SERVICE  MINUTE  OF  THE   DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING
THE following mentioned Printing Service Minute of the Department of Government Printing is substituted, without prejudice
to any measure taken, in terms to the Sri Lanka Printing Service Minute published in the Extra - Ordinary Gazette
No. 486/7 dated 28.12.1987 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments made to it from time to time
or any measure taken compatible to it or intend to have been taken under that.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
T. M. L. C. S
ENARA THNE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
Dated on 26th June, 2013.
01. Date of Effective : This Service minute should be effective from the date of 2nd May, 2012.
02. General Role :   Print and Publish Acts, Hanzard, Gazettes and Regulations required by the Sri Lanka Parliament,
Ministries, Departments and Supply, required Printing materials; specimens, stamps, admissions, ballot papers and commercial
printing to the Government Provincial Councils,  Local Government Bodies, and Statutory Bodies, thereby afford convenient
for the institutions and provide information directly through the Electro - media.
03. Interpretations and Definitions  :
      (i)  ' Service Minute ' means Printing Service Minute of the Department of Government Printing.
     (ii)  ' Printing Service ' means Printing Service of the Department  of  Government Printing.
    (iii) ' Department ' means the Department of Government Printing.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
2A
  (iv) 'Apprentice ' means the persons employed by the National Apprentice and V ocational Training Authority for
the training at the Department of Government Printing.
   (v) 'Satisfactory Service ' means a period, by attending to the duties with efficient and diligent by passing the
efficiency bar examinations, to be passed, by fulfilling all the qualifications for the permanence of the
appointment, to be done, by earning all the increments to be earned, during that period and by not occurring
any punishable  Fault  by the Public officer.
   (vi) 'Active Service Period ' means a period of service, attended to the duties actually by obtaining relevant salary
for his own post.
   (vii) 'Secretary 'means Secretary to the Ministry, the Government Printing Department belongs.
  (viii) 'Head of the Department ' means Government Printer.
04. Appointing Authority :
Government Printer :  Cabinet of Ministers
Additional Govt. Printer :  Public Service Commission
Executive level officers :  Public Service Commission
Supervisor Management Assistant -
Technology cadre officers By the Govt. Printer Delegated Authority
given by the Public Service Commission
Management Assistant - Technology
Cadre Officers
05. Administrative Authority  :  Secretary is the Administrative Authority of the Government Printer, Additional
Government Printer and Executive level officers.
06. Description of the Service Cadre belongs to the Service  :
 6.1 This service is consists of the officers appointed to the following each and every class and grade :-
Service Cadre Class Grade
Senior Executive Officer Special Grade
Executive Officer Class I Grade I
Grade II
Grade III
Supervisor Management Assistant - Technology Class II Grade I
Grade II
Grade III
Management Assistant - Technology Unit - 3   Class III Grade I
Grade II
Grade III
 6.2 Nature of the Posts .- These posts are Permanent and Pensionable. Person who recruits shall contribute to
the Widows' & Orphans Pension scheme or Widowers' & Orphans' pension scheme as the case may be.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
3A
07. Salary :
07.1 Salary Code Numbers, steps and salary scales in relevant to the each class and grade of the service as
follows:-
Class Grade Salary Code Initial Salary Scale
No. Salary Step
Special Grade SL 3 - 2006 In itial Step Rs.42,390 - 12x1,310 - Rs.58,110
Grade I SL 1 - 2006 20 Step
Class I Grade II SL 1 - 2006 12 Step Rs.22,935 - 10x645 - 8x790 - 17x 1,050 - Rs.53,555
Grade III SL 1 - 2006 Initial Step
Grade I MN 3 - 2006A 23 Step
Class II Grade II MN 3 - 2006A 12 Step Rs.15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x 360 - Rs.27,885
Grade III MN 3 - 2006A Initial Step
Grade I MT 1 - 2006A 23 Step
Class III Grade II MT 1 - 2006A 12 Step Rs.14,425 - 10x145 - 11x 170 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs23,665
Grade III MT 1 - 2006 A Initial Step
7.2 The employees who are in the class III and earn Salary on MT - 3 - 2006 A. Salary scale on the date of
effective of this minute , will be received the same salary as individual to them further.
7.3 Salary code number, salary scale and grade structure should be completely mentioned  in each appointment
letter. In the case of promotion from Grade to Grade within the each employee cadre, issue of a new appointment
letter is irrelevant, only the letter of promotion will be sufficient.
08. Approved number of Cadre is as Follows :
           Class Grade Req uired Number
Special Grade  03
 Class I G rade I
Grade II 24
Grade III
Class II Grade I
Grade II 167
Grade III
Class III Grade I
Grade II 893
Grade III
(a) 24 combined officers for Class I, the three grades I , II and III, 167 combined officers for Class II, the three
Grades I, II and III and 893 combined officers for class III, the three grades I, II and III are being considered
for the purpose of promotion from Grade to Grade. These numbers can be amended by the Department of
Management Service on the grounds of requirement.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
4A
09. Posts belong to the Service:
Names of the posts and number of the posts which belong to the service are as follows:
Class Grade Name of the Post Number
Special Grade Govt. Printer 01
Additional Government Printers 02
Class I Grade I Senior Deputy Govt. Printer 04
Grade II Deputy Govt. Printer 20
Grade III Assistant Govt. Printer
Class II Grade I Head Foreman
Head Printing Editor 70
Grade II Foreman II
Assistant Head Printing Editor II 97
Grade III Foreman III
Assistant Head Printing Editor III
Class III Grade I,II,III Offset Litho Printing Operator 128
Letter Press Operator 95
Pree-Press Layout man 120
Printing Editor 150
Computer Type Setter and Designer for Printing 120
Print Finisher 244
Printing Technician 36
10. Method of Recruitment :
10.1 Recruitment to the Executive Cadre:
Recruitment will be done through the relevant scheme, among the following schemes, in accordance with the
regulations in the following section 10.1.1 by the appointing authority by considering the prevailing number
of vacancies, on the time of filling of the vacancies.
    (i) Recruitment of the external applicants by Open Competitive Examination and an interview to check the
qualifications;
    (ii)Recruitment of internal applicants through by Limited Competitive  Examination and an interview to
check the qualifications.
10.1.150% consist of the approved number of officers from the internal applicants to be recruited and the
other 50% consist of the external applicants to be recruited, for the Executive Service Cadre except the
posts of Assistant Govt. Printer ( Maintenance - Printing Mechanical/Maintenance - Electronic ) and
Assistant Govt. Printer ( Printing Editor).
10.1.2Recruitment will be done only for the Grade III - Executive Service Cadre.
10.1.3Qualifications:
Required qualifications for the recruitments are stated in the Chapter I (one).
10.1.4Age Limit :
Should not less than 22 years and not more than 28 years. ( The maximum age limit will not be permitted
to the applicants who are already employed in a permanent post in the Department).

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
5A
10.1.5Method of Recruitment :
(i) Open and limited competitive examinations will conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Otherwise exams will conducted by an institute, approved by the Appointing Authority.
 (ii)Syllabus for the Open competitive Examination mentioned in the  Appendix 2 and Syllabus for the
Limited competitive Examination mentioned in the Appendix 3.
(iii)Applicants are called for the interview, in accordance with the number of vacancies as determined by
the Appointing Authority and recruitment will be done based on the order of merits displayed by them
in the exams.
(iv) The interview, mentioned in the above section III will be conducted to check the qualifications of the
selected ones and the  Appointing Authority will appoint the Interview board. No marks will be given
in the Interview.
(v) At first applications are called through the internal applicants for the recruitment of qualified persons
for the three (3) Assistant Govt. Printer Posts (Maintenance - Print Mechanical / Maintenance -
Electronic) where there is no internal applicants to fill the vacancies, qualified persons will be recruited
from the external applicants. The two Assistant Govt. Printer Posts ( Printing Editor ) will be recruited
only from the internal applicants.
10.1.6Method of Calling Applications .–  Applications are called from the external applicants through
publishing an advertisement in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  and in
the Web site. For internal applicants, applications are called through publishing an advertisement
within the Department and in the Web site.
  10.2 Recruitment of Supervisory Management Assistant - Technology Service Cadre:-
10.2.1When any Vacancy occurred in this Service cadre, a structured interview  results and followed by a
interview to check the qualifications as decided by the Appointment Authority, the qualified persons
will be recruited to fill the vacancies in accordance with the order of merits displayed in the structured
interview.
10.2.2Applications are called upon, relevant sections, mentioned in the posts under class III Section 09.
10.2.3Required qualifications for the recruitments are stated in the Appendix I.
10.2.4Recruitment will be done to the Grade III Supervisory Management Assistant Technology Service
Cadre.
10.2.5Interview board will be appointed by the 
‘Appointing Authority ’ Method of giving marks in the
structured interview  is stated in the Appendix 4.
10.2.6 At least 40% marks should be obtained to pass the structured interview.
10.2.7Interview Board, to check qualifications will be appointed by the Appointing Authority. No. of
applicants, determined by the Appointing Authority, based on the order of merits obtained in the
structured interview and the number of Vacancies, are called for this Interview. No marks allocated in
this interview.
10.2.8Method of calling applications :
Applications are called, by publishing an advertisement within the Department and in the Web Site for
the recruitment for these posts.
5- PG 17840

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
6A
10.2.9When recruiting qualified persons to new posts, their salary points will be done in terms of the Section
5 of Chapter VII in the Establishment Code.
  10.3 Recruitment to the Management Assistant - Technology Unit - 3 service cadre:
10.3.1Recruitment will be done to the relevant scheme for each post as mentioned under Section 4 of Chapter
1, through the following schemes :-
(i) Selection of qualifiers through external applicants by National V ocational  Qualifications ( N.V .Q.)
Level 5 examination, structured interview and an interview for examining Qualifications as in relevant
to the post to be recruited.
(ii) Selection of qualifiers through internal applicants for training by the results of a structured     interview
and an   interview for examining qualifications.
(iii) Selection of Apprentices for the Training by an interview to examine the Qualifications.
10.3.2Structured interview will be conducted to the  external applicants who had Obtained Competency
certificate by facing  National   V ocational  Qualifications ( N.V .Q. ) Level 5 - examination. Recruitment
of qualifiers  will be done through an interview for examining qualifications, based on merits obtained
in that.
10.3.3Internal applicants for the training will be selected, based on the order of  merits obtained in the
structured interview. The selected applicants undergo three year (3) training period. They shall  pass
by facing to  the  National V ocational Qualifications - ( N.V .Q.) Level 4 exam within 2 years period. At
the end of  three years (3) they shall face to the National V ocational  Qualifications  ( N.V .Q.) Level 5
exam and only those who pass shall be recruited permanently for the relevant Posts. Those who fail,
National V ocational Qualification ( N.V .Q.) Level 4 or National V ocational Qualifications ( N.V .Q. ) Level
5, as is relevant, shall be sent back to their previous posts. They have got right to obtain salary and
salary increments of their pervious posts, during the training period. Where the persons who sent
back to their previous posts, shall be placed on the relevant salary points by considering them
employing continuously at those posts and the period of training shall be considered as an active
service period of the post, when giving promotions.
10.3.4Selected apprentices shall undergo three years (3) training period. They should face to the National
V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q) Level 4 Exam and pass within the two years period. At the end of
three years, should face  to the National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q) Level 5 Exam, and only the
selected ones will be recruited permanently for the relevant posts. Those who  fails to pass Level 5
examination, will no right for the further training or obtain permanent post respectively, Allowance will
be given to them during the training.
10.3.5Where any applicant at the time of selection for a post pass in National  V ocational  Qualifications
(N.V .Q.) Level 4 exam and obtained certificate then no need to face National V ocational Qualifications
(N.V .Q.) Level 4 Exam.Under above sections 10.3.3 and 10.3.4. Such applicant need not pass,
National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q) Level 5 Exam.
10.3.6The Govt. Printer can afford another additional opportunity for those who fails to pass National
V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q.) Level 4 and National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q.) Level 5 exam.
at ones; however the internal applicants and apprentices can be faced to these exams, during their
service in the previous post and external, respectively as no extension is given for this training period.
10.3.7Those who trained under above sections 10.3.3 and 10.3.4 will be appointed to the permanent posts
based on the date of passing the National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q.) Level 5.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
7A
10.3.8The headings considered in the structured interview, mentioned under the above 10.3.2 and 10.3.3 and
the marks given for those headings will be determined through the board of interview. Which consist
of the following members and will enforced after the approval of the Secretary.
 01. Government Printer,
 02. An Executive officer from the Govt. Printing Department,
 03. An Executive Officer from the Ministry, the Govt. Printing Department belongs to.
10.3.9Recruitment ratio :
Recruitment ratio for the each posts is stated below:
 Post External Applicant Internal Applicants Apprentices
Offset Litho print operator 50% –              50%
Letter Press Operator 30%           30%               40%
Pre Print Planner        –           50%              50%
Computer Type Setter and Designer for Printing –          50%              50%
Printing Finisher 30%                    30%                              40%
Print Technician –             100%              –
Print Editor Recruitment will be done in accordance with the rules and
regulations under section 4.4.2 in the Appendix I.
10.3.10Recruitment done only for the Grade III Management Assistant Technology Cadre.
10.3.11 Qualifications :
Required qualifications for the recruitment for the posts are stated in the  Appendix 1.
10.3.12Age Limit :
 (i) Should not be less than 30 years and not more than 40 years of age for  the external applicants.
 (ii)Should not be less than 22 years of age for the Internal applicants  and the maximum age limit will
not be permitted for them.
(iii)Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age for the Apprentices.
10.3.13The qualifications mentioned under the above Sections 10.3.11 and 10.3.12, should be fully completed
on every hand to the date stated in the notification of calling applications.
10.3.14 Method of Recruitment :
(i) National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q.) Exam., structured  interview and an interview for
examining qualifications  will be conducted  in accordance with the relevant posts, as stated in
the Sections 10.3.1, 10.3.2,  10.3.3, 10.3.4 and 10.3.5.
(ii) Marks are given for the competency certificate given in the National  V ocational Qualifications
(N.V .Q.) exam, and for the Structured Interview  and no marks are given for the interview, conducted
to check the qualifications.
(iii)National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q.) level 4 and Level 5 shall be conducted by the National
V ocational and Tertiary Education Commission or as appropriately determined by the Commission.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
8A
(iv) Relevant Competency certificates will be given to the applicants who obtained, decided
competency in the National V ocational Qualifications. 40% or more than that should be obtained
to pass the structured interview.
(v) Method of recruitment based on the National V ocational Qualifications  (N.V .Q.) Competency
certificate mentioned under the above Sections 10.3.1,  10.3.2, 10.3.3, 10.3.4 and 10.3.5 shall
undergo the amendments of the National V ocational and Tertiary Education Commission.
10.3.15Method of Calling Applications:  Applications are called from the External Applicants by publishing
an advertisement in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri  Lanka  and in the Web
site. Applications are called from the Internal Applicants by publishing an advertisement within the
departmental premises and for the Apprentices, by publishing an advertisement by the National
Apprentice and Technical Training Authority.
11. Efficiency Bars and Act of Permanent :
11.1All the officers, who are recruited under this constitution shall pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations as
stated below:-
11.1.1 Shall pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination as relevance to, before passing three years (3) having
being appointed to the Grade III,
11.1.2 Shall pass the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination as relevance to, before passing three years (03), having
being promoted to the Grade II,
11.1.3 Shall pass the 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination as relevance to, before  passing five years (05) having
being promoted to the Grade I.
11.2 Efficiency Bar Examinations are conducted twice a year.
11.3The relevance Efficiency Bar Examination shall be conducted by the officers with delegated powers given by
the Appointing Authority or from the Institute approved by the Appointing Authority.
11.4 An officer can sit in one occasion or in separate occasions for the relevant subjects.
11.5Shall obtain at least 40% marks to pass each question paper.
11.6Relevant Syllabuses for the Efficiency Bar Examinations are stated in the 6th, 7th and 8th Appendix.
11.7Act of Permanent:
11.7.1 An officer who appointed to Class III, Grade III based on the results of  structured interview and
National V ocational Qualifications (N.V .Q.) Certificate and Class I Grade III service based on the
results of the  Open Competitive Exam, should undergo three years (3) probation  period. He/She will
permanent in the service at the end of the probation  period, if he/she pass the 1st efficiency bar exam,
fulfill language competency and if he/she conduct his/her duties and behavior  satisfactory within the
probation period.
11.7.2 An internal officer, who appointed to Class III, Grade III based on National V ocational Qualifications
(N.V .Q.) Competency Certificate and the results of structured interview and Class I Grade III service
based on the results of the limited competitive exam. Shall undergo a  one (1) year Acting period He/
She will permanent in the service period. If he/she conduct satisfactorily his/her duties and behavior
within the Acting period.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
9A
12. Official Language Competency :
12.1 All the officers should obtain Language Competency in terms of the Public Administration circular
No.  7/2007. The other official languages competency levels to be obtained by each service cadre are stated
below.
Service Cadre   Competency level to be Obtained in terms of the
Public Administrative Circular No. 7/2007
1. Executive Officer Section 1
2. Supervisory Management Assistant Technology Section 2
3. Management Assistant Technician - Unit 3 Section 2
12.2 Official Language. - The officers/employees who are recruited to the service   through any other language
medium except the Official languages should obtain the Official language  competency within the probation
period.
13. Graded Promotions :
Method of Graded Promotions, based on performance, shall consists of the following method :-
13.1 Promotion of Grade III to Grade II in the Executive Service Cadre.
13.1.1Requirements that should fulfill by those who display general level performance -
(i) Should have Permanent in the Appointment;
 (ii)Should have earned ten (10) salary increments and complete ten (10) active and satisfactory
service period in Grade III service cadre on the date of qualifying for the promotion;
(iii)Should have displayed satisfactory performance or higher than that  within ten (10) years period
previously on the date of promotion in accordance with the Approved Performance Evaluation
Procedure;
(iv) Should have completed satisfactory service within the immediately preceding five years (05) on
the date of promotion;
(v) Should have obtained the other official language competency in the relevant level;
(vi) Should have passed relevant efficiency bar examinations on due date;
(vii) Should have obtained a certificate after following fulltime course, not less than one year in the
well recognized university like London College of printing or the Watford College of  Technology
or  Manchester Metropolitan University or  from a Printing Institute or should have obtained
Higher Diploma Certificate for Printing Technology and Management.
13.1.1.1Method of Promotion:
Where officers with fully completed Qualifications have made request for the Appointing Authority
through the relevant  specimen form, then the Appointing Authority, having verified the
qualifications will promote to grade II, with effect  from the date on which they qualify for promotion.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
10A
13.1.2Requirements to be fulfilled by those who display special Performance Level:
(i) Should have permanent in the appointment;
(ii)Should have completed six years (06) active and satisfactory service period in Grade III service
cadre and should have earned the six (06) salary increments due date, on the date of  promotion ;
(iii)Should have shown special performance within the preceding six  (06) years period on the date of
promotion in accordance with the approved performance evaluation procedure;
 (iv) Should have complete satisfactory service within the immediately during the five years (5) period
on the date of promotion;
(v) Should have obtained relevant level competency in other official  Languages;
 (vi) Should have passed relevant Efficiency bar examination due date;
 (vii) Should have obtained a certificate after following fulltime course,  not less than one an year in
London college of Printing or Watford College of Technology or an recognized university like
Manchester Metropolitan University or should have obtained Higher Diploma Certificate in
Printing Technology and Management at Sri Lanka Printing Institute.
13.1.2.1Method of Promotion : The officers who fulfilled above qualifications, can sit for a written Aptitude
test conducted by an approved Institute by the Appointing Authority. Having made request,
those who passed it, for the Appointing Authority through relevant  specimen then the appointing
Authority shall overfilled the qualifications. The officers who fulfilled other requirements
completely, shall be promoted to Grade II, effective from the date of completing six years (06) from
the date of appointing by the Appointing Authority. Syllabus and conditions for the Aptitude
Test are stated in the 5th Appendix.
13.2Promotion from Grade II to Grade I in the Executive Cadre.
13.2.1Qualifications to be Fulfilled :
(i) Should have obtained postgraduate in one field; in Printing /Engineering/ Computer/Management/
Science from an recognized University by the University High Commission;
(ii)Should have earned seven relevant increments and completed seven active and satisfactory
service period in Grade II service Cadre;
(iii)Should have completed five (05) years satisfactory service preceding the date of qualifying for
the promotion;
(iv) Should have shown Satisfactory level performance or above that within seven (7) years preceding
on the date of promotion in accordance with the approved performance evaluation procedure;
(v) Should have passed relevant Efficiency Bar Exams due date.
13.2.2Method of Promotion :
Where officers with fully completed qualifications having made request in a relevant specimen form
for the Appointing Authority, then the Appointing Authority having verified the qualifications will
promote to Grade I with effective from the date of qualifying.
13.3 Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade in the Executive Service Cadre:

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
11A
13.3.1The Officers in Class I Grade I, who completed the following requirements shall be promoted to the
Special Grade by the Appointing Authority:-
(i) Should have earned five (05) salary increments after promoting to  the Class I, Grade I and
completed five (05) years active and satisfactory service in Class I, Grade I.
(ii) Should not have faced to any disciplinary punishment and should have a satisfactory service
within five (05) years preceding the date of qualifying for the promotions.
(iii)Having being satisfactory or higher level annual performance  within five (05) years, preceding
the date of qualifying for the promotions.
(iv) Should have completed active service not less than eighteen years (18) in the Executive Service
cadre on the date of qualifying for the promotions.
13.3.2Method of Promotion :
(i) Promotion to a special grade will be done by an Approved interview board, by the Public Service
Commission on the results of interview.
(ii) Seniority and Merits shall be considered by the Interview board.
(iii)Promotion to a Special grade will be done,  by the Public Service Commission in accordance with
the number of vacancies existent.
13.4Promotion from Grade III to Grade II in the Supervisory Management Assistant (Technology) and
Management Assistant (Technology) service cadre.
13.4.1Those who display general level performance  :
13.4.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :
(i) Having being permanent in the appointment;
 (ii)Should be earned ten (10) salary increments and fulfilled at least ten (10) years active and
satisfactory service in Grade III  service cadre on the date of qualifying for the promotion;
  (iii)Should have displayed satisfactory performance level or higher than that within ten (10) years
preceding the date of promotion, in accordance with the Approved performance evaluation
procedure.
  (iv) Should have completed satisfactory service within five (05)  years preceding the date of promotion.
(v) Should have obtained the  relevant level competency in other  official languages.
(vi) Should have passed relevant Efficiency bar exams. on the due date.
13.4.1.2Method of Promotion:
Where officers with fully completed qualifications, to promote Grade II, having made request in
a relevant specimen from for the Appointing Authority, then the Appointing Authority having
verified the qualifications, will promote with effect  from the date of qualifying.
13.4.2 Those who show Special Performance -

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
12A
13.4.2.1Requirements to be Fulfilled :
(i) Appointment should be Permanent:
(ii)Should have earned relevant six salary increments(06) on due date and completed active
and satisfactory six years (06)  service in Grade III service cadre, on the date of qualifying
for the promotion.
(iii)Should be shown special performance level, within the preceding immediately six years(06),
in accordance with the approved evaluation procedure.
(iv) Should have completed satisfactory service within five (05) years. preceding immediately
on the date of promotion.
(v) Should have obtained competency in other official languages in relevant level with the
relevant period.
(vi) Should have passed relevant efficiency bar exam on due date.
13.4.2.2Method of Promotion :
Where the officers who fulfilled above qualifications, can sit  for the written aptitude test
conducted by institutes approved by the  Appointing Authority. Appointing Authority will
verify the qualifications having made request in a relevant form, from those who pass the exam.
Officers who fulfilled other relevant qualifications, will be promoted to grade II with effective
from the date of completing six (06) years from the date of appointing, by the Appointing
Authority. Syllabuses and  conditions of the Aptitude Test are stated in the Appendix five (5).
13.5 Promotion to Grade I from Grade II in the Supervisory Management Assistant, Technology and Management
Assistant Technology Service Cadre:
13.5.1 Those who display general level performance:
13.5.1.1Qualifications to be fulfilled :
(i) Should have earned ten (10) salary increments and completed at least ten (10) years active
and satisfactory service in Grade   II service cadre on the date of qualifying  for the
promotion ;
(ii)Should have completed satisfactory service within the preceding immediately five (05)
years on the date of  promotion;
 (iii)Should have display performance in satisfactory level or  above that within the preceding
ten (10) years on the date of promotion in accordance with the Approved performance
evaluation procedure;
 (iv) Should have passed relevant efficiency bar exam. On due date.
13.5.1.2Method of Promotion:
Where the officers who completed qualifications to promote to   the Grade I, can request for the
Appointing Authority in a relevant specimen form, then having made verification the qualification
will be promoted with effect from the date of  qualifying.
13.5.2 Those who display Special Performance -

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
13A
13.5.2.1Qualifications to be Fulfilled :
(i) Should have earned relevant nine (9) salary increments on due date and completed nine (9)
years active and satisfactory service in Grade II service cadre on the date of  qualifying for
the promotion;
(ii) Should have completed satisfactory service within five (5) years preceding date of
promotion;
(iii) Should have displayed special performance within nine (9)  years preceding in accordance
with the Approved performance evaluation procedure;
(iv) Should have passed relevant Efficiency bar exams on due date.
13.5.2.2Method of Promotion:
Structured interview will be conducted by the Appointing  Authority for the officers who fulfill
the qualifications and, the those officers who gain 50% or marks or above from the structured
interview will be promoted to Grade I with  effect  from the date of completing nine (09) years
after promoting to the Grade II by the Appointing Authority.
Procedural marks and conditions relevant to the structured  interview are stated in the
Appendix 9.
13.6 Requests for promotions for all the grades should be forward in accordance with the specimen stated in the
Appendix 10.
13.7 Remarks:
(i) Should obtained at least 60% marks to pass the examination, which conducted, when giving promotions
under Extraordinary performance. Further, the examination for promotion under the Extra Ordinary
performance will be conducted once a years and an officer can sit only once.
(ii) Where an officer unable to sit for the examination of promotion on due date under special performance,
owing to Special reason beyond his control, he can sit for an aptitude test late. The date of promotion
under Extra Ordinary performance for such an officer shall consider as the date of pass of  that
examination Confirmation for this should be obtained by the secretary.
Note : ( Sit for the examinations for promotions under Extra- Ordinary performance.)
Opportunity has given to sit for the written Aptitude Test/Structured interview for promotions; to those who displayed
satisfactory level or above performance at the Annual performance evaluation, which has been conducted at present, under
Extra Ordinary performance, until introduce Extra Ordinary performance evaluation procedure by the Government.
14. Appointment for the Posts :
14.1 Appointment to the Govt. Printer post in the Printing Service:
Qualifications. - Should have been held the post of Additional Govt. Printer in the  Printing Service.
Method of Recruitment. - Appointment shall be done by the Cabinet of  Ministers.
14.2 Appointment to the Post of Additional Govt. Printer in the Printing Service :
Qualifications.- Should have been held Senior Deputy Govt. Printer in the special Grade in the Printing
Service
Method of Recruitment.- Appointment  shall  be  done  by the  Appointing Authority when any vacancy
occurred in the post, on the basis of Seniority of the officer, who has got
satisfactory service  immediately preceding five years (5).
6- PG 17840

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
14A
14.3 Appointment to the post of Senior Deputy Govt. Printer in the Printing Service:
Qualifications :- Should be an officer in the Class I Grade I or Special Grade in   the  Printing Service.
Method of Recruitment: - Appointment shall be done by the Appointing  Authority   when any vacancy
occur in the post on the basis of  Seniority of the  officer, who has got satisfactory
service immediately preceding five years (5).
14.4 Appointment to the post of Deputy Govt. Printer in the Printing Service:-
Qualifications.- Should have a Class I Grade II officer in the Printing Service.
Method of Recruitment .-  Appointment will be done for the officers who promoted Class I Grade II    to the
Post of Deputy Government Printer by the Appointing Authority.
14.5 Appointment to the post of the Assistant Govt. Printer in the Printing Service:
Method of Recruitment  .- Appointment will be done for the Grade III, Executive cadre in the Printing
Service under section 10 on the basis of number of vacancies occurred in accordance with
the order of  merits  by the Appointing Authority.
14.6 Appointment to the Post of Head Foreman/Head Printing Editor:
Qualifications. - Having being held the post of Class II Grade I or Class II Grade II or Class II Grade III
Head Foreman/Head Assistant Printing Editor in the Printing Service.
Method of Recruitment  .- Appointment will be done when any vacancy occurred, in  the Post of Head
Foreman/Head Printing Editor in any section, from the officers who had been held the
Head Foreman/Head Assistant Printing Editor in relevant sections, and with satisfactory
service  immediately preceding five (5) years on the  basis of the seniority of the officer.
15. Intermediate Rules:
15.1Promotions and the Internal recruitments, which has been started in terms of the previous Minute before
effecting of this Minute, should be finished enacting, within one year after approving this minute.
15.2The  requirements  of having pass efficiency bar exams,  obtain language  competency and obtain Post
Graduate which need   for the graded    promotions  under this Minute, should be enacted completely after
4  years  this  minute has been started to operate.
15.3Where any officer who had appointed to a post, stated in the previous Minute,  before enacting this
Minute and no relevant post under this Minute, he/she can be appointed to a suitable post under this
Minute, and it should be enacted completely within two (2) years period. After approving this Minute.
15.4Upto  five  (5)  years,  after approving this minute,  the   selection of internal applicants for the posts of
Letter Press Operator and Pressman, mentioned  under section 9 of the minute, then  pass  a  course, not
less  then a  year  relevant to the post conducted by the Govt. Printing  Institute,  will be sufficient for them
to appoint for the permanent posts. When   recruiting  after five (5)  years of approving  this minute for the
posts mentioned above it should be done in terms of the section 10.3 of this minute.
15.5Promotion to the Extra - Ordinary Grade :
Promotion to Extra - Ordinary grade shall be done in terms of the section 13.3 in  this service minute.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
15A
16. Absorption to the Printing Minute :
The Grades and Posts, published in the Extra Ordinary Gazette  of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka No. 486/7 and dated 28th December 1987, under the minute of Sri Lanka Printing, submissively absorbed
in terms of the provisions in the Section 4 of the Chapter VII in the Establishment Code, to the Grades under this
minute as shown below. However the date of salary increment shall not change due to the absorption and the
date should effect unchanging as the date of salary increment as earlier, before the absorption. Likewise at the
Salary change where on the similarity between the salary step being earned at last to the new salary step going
to be earned by the relevant person, then staging him/her to the next above salary step should not be done in
accordance with the Section 4.4 of the Chapter VII in the Establishment Code :–
16.1The officers who has been employed in Class III Grade III service on the date of  effect of this minute, shall
be absorbed to Class III, Grade III ;
16.2The officers who have been employed in Class III Grade II service on the date of effect of this minute shall
be absorbed to Class III Grade II ;
16.3The officers who have been employed in Class III Grade I service on the date of effect of this minute shall
be absorbed to Class III Grade I ;
16.4The officers who have been held the Post of Head Foreman (Foreman) and the Post of Assistant Head
Reader under Class III Grade II on the date of effect of this minute shall be absorbed to Class II Grade II ;
16.5 The officers who  have  been  held  the  Post  of  the Head  Foreman (Foreman) and  Chief Assistant Head
Reader, on the date of effect of this minute shall be absorbed to Class II Grade I ;
16.6 The officers who have been employed under Class II Grade I, on the date of  effect of this minute, will be
absorbed to Class I Grade III ;
16.7 The officers who have been employed under Class I Grade II, on the date of effect of this minute, will be
absorbed to Class I Grade II ;
16.8 The officers who have been employed under Class I Grade I, on the date of effect of this minute, will be
absorbed to Class I Grade I ;
16.9 The officer who has been held the Post of Govt. Printer in Special Grade on the  date of effect of this minute
will be considered as the officer who has absorbed to the Post of the Govt. Printer in Special Grade.
17. Other Conditions:
17.1All the officers who are  recruited  under  this service minute shall bound to discharge  rules  and  regulations
in  the  Establishment Code and Financial  Regulations Code of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri
Lanka and the orders regulations procedural  rules  enacted by  the Public Service Commission,  Departmental
Orders and  the  rules and  regulations  issued  by the Govt. from time to time.
17.2 Public Service Commission shall do the interpretations for the facts stated in this service minute. Public
Service Commission has got power to decide the where there is no provisions provided in this Minute.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Minute, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
16A
Appendix One
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS
1. General Qualifications for the recruitment of all the Posts:
(i) be a Sri Lankan Citizen.
(ii) be a good health and sound health.
(iii)should not be a clergy of any religious chapter.
2. Recruitment to the Executive Service Cadre III
2.1 For External Applicants:
Educational Qualifications  -
(i) For the Post of Assistant Government Printer (Production):
(a) Should have obtained a Science Degree with Chemistry/Computer Science (as main subject) Degree in
Printing Technology or  with class from, recognized  university by the University High Commission; or
  (b) Should have obtained a Degree in Printing Engineering or Engineering (Mechanic/ Electric/
Telecommunication/ Electronic/ Production); or
 (c) Should  have followed (02)  Print Technology  Courses in the Sri Lanka Printing  Institute and  have
five (05) years service in the Government Printing Department  with a Science Degree.   (Duration of a
Course should not less than one year).
 (ii) For the Post of Assistant Government Printer ( Maintenance - Printing Mechanical/ Maintenance - Printing
Electronic):
(a) Should have obtained an Engineering Degree (Mechanic/ Electric/Telecommunication/ Electronic) from
recognized University by the University High Commission.
2.2 For Internal Applicants -
Qualifications :
(i) For the Post of Assistant Government Printer (Production):
(a) Should be an officer who has been held a Post of the Head Foreman or Grade II Head Foreman in
the Printing Service; and
Should have obtained Certificates, after following 2 Courses in Printing, in the Sri Lanka Printing
Institute or in recognized institute; (Duration  of a  course should not less than one year); or
(b) Should be an officer who has been held a post of the Head  Printing Editor or Printing Editor Grade
II in Printing Service; and
Should have obtained certificates after following 3 courses in Printing in the Sri Lanka Printing
institute or in recognized institute. (Duration of a course should not be less than one year).
 (c) Should have completed satisfactory service within five (05) years, proceeding  immediately on the
final date of closing applications.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
17A
(ii) For the Post of Assistant Government Printer (Maintenance):
(a) Should be an officer who has been held the Head Foreman (Maintenance) or  Grade II Head Foreman
(Maintenance) in the Printing Service;
 (b) Should have obtained certificates after following 02 courses in Printing in the Sri Lanka Printing
Institute or in recognized Institute. (Duration of a course should not be less than one year); or
Should  be a  Foreman  (Head Foreman) in Grade  I,  with ten (10)  years consolidated experience in the
Grade I or Grade II Foreman Posts.
 (c) Should have completed satisfactory service within the five (05) years preceding immediately on the
final date of closing applications.
  (iii) For the post of Assistant Government Printer (Printing Editor):
 (a) Should be an officer who has been held  the  Head Printing Editor or Grade II Printing Editor in the
Printing Service; and
Should have obtained certificates after following 2 courses in printing in the Sri Lanka Printing Institute
or in recognized Institute; (Duration of a course should not be less then one year)
 (b) Should have completed satisfactory service within the five (05) years preceding immediately on the
final date of closing applications.
03. Recruitment to the Grade III, Supervisory Management Assistant Technology Service Cadre:
Qualifications:
(i) Should be an officer in Class III Grade I or an officer who has been completed five (05) years service in
Class III Grade II in the Printing Service.
(ii) Should have completed satisfactory service within the five (05) years, preceding  immediately on the
final date of closing applications.
(iii)Should have obtained certificates after following 02 courses in Printing in the Sri  Lanka Printing
Institute or in other recognized Local/International Institute;
(One of this Course, should be relevant to the Post)
04. Recruitment to the Grade III Management Assistant Technology Service Cadre:
Qualifications:
4.1 Offset Litho Print Operator:
4.1.1For the External Applicants:-
(a) Should pass six (06) Subjects at once  including at least  credit passes  for  four (04) subjects,
inclusive of Mathematics, Language medium, out of the Sinhala/ Tamil/ English language, science
at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination;
(b) Should have obtained not less than ten (10) years experience in relevant  field  in recognized
Institute;
(c) Should have obtained a Certificate of Competency at N.V .Q. Level 4 in relevant to the field.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
18A
4.1.2For the Apprentices -
(i) Should pass G .C.E (O/L) as stated under the above section 4.1.1(a);
(ii) Should  pass all  the subjects (except  Common  General Test)  in science subjects stream at G .C.E.
(A/L) examination, at once (It will be sufficient to pass three (03) subjects under the old syllabus).
 4.1.350% out of the external applications and 50% out of the Apprentices as a ratio shall be recruited, when
recruiting to there posts. However the Govt. Printer can recruit, the number from the  other group
where there is no sufficient qualified applicants.
4.2 Off Set Printing Machine Operator:
4.2.1 For the External Applicants -
(a) Should pass six (06) subjects at once at least with credit  passes  for   four (04) subjects  inclusive
of  Mathematics,  Language medium,  out  of  the Sinhala/ Tamil/English language, science at the
G.C.E.(O/L) Examination;
(b) Should have obtained not less than ten (10) years experience  in  relevant  field in a recognized
Institute;
(c) Should have obtained a certificate of  competency at  N.V .Q.  level   4 in  relevant to the field.
4.2.2For the Internal Applicants -
(a) Should have obtained not less than five (05) years experience in the Greaser Post with not less
than fifteen (15) years service in the Department.
4.2.3For the Apprentices -
(i) Should pass G.C.E. (O/L) Examination as stated under the above section 4.2.1 (a);
(ii) Should pass  all the  Subject  (except  general Common Test) in  science stream at once at the
G .C.E.(A/L) examination. Pass three (03) subjects at once under the old syllabus will be sufficient);
4.2.430% out of the external applicants 30% out of the internal applicants, 40% out of  the apprentices, as
a  ratio, shall  be  recruited, when  recruiting for  these  posts. However the  Govt. Printer can recruit the
number from the other group,  where there is  no sufficient applicants with qualifications in any group.
4.3 Pre-Printing Planner:
4.3.1For the Internal Applicants :
(a) Should have obtained at  least  credit  passes  for  two  (02)  subjects  and passed six (6) subjects
inclusive of Mathematics, Language  medium, out of the  Sinhala/ Tamil/ English languages at the
G .C.E. (O/L) examination;
(b) Should have completed service not less than seven (07) years in the Department.
4.3.2for Apprentices:
(a) Should pass six (06) subjects at once at least credit  passes  for  four  (04) subjects  inclusive of
Mathematics, Language medium out, of the Sinhala/Tamil/ English Languages, science, at once at
the G .C.E.(O/L) examination;

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
19A
(b) Should have passed all the subjects (Except  General Common  Test)  at once at the G.C.E. (A/L)
examination. (Pass  three (03)  subjects at  once under the old syllabus will be sufficient)
  4.3.3 50% out of the Internal applicants, 50% out of the Apprentices as a ratio shall be recruited, when
recruiting these posts. However, the Govt. Printer can recruit the number from the other group, where
there is no sufficient  applicants, with qualifications in any group.
4.4 Printing Editor:
4.4.1For all the Applicants:
(a) At the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination -
(i) A credit pass in Sinhala/ Tamil an English subjects;
(ii) Should have passed in six subjects at once with credit passes for four (04) subjects inclusive
of credit pass for the subject of Mathematics.
(b) At the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination -
(i) Should  have  passed  all the  subjects  at once  with credit pass  for  Sinhala/ Tamil and English
subjects.  (pass in three  (03)  subjects  under the old syllabus will be sufficient)
(ii) Where there is  a general  pass  for the  subjects  English at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination or
where there is no pass for the  subject  English at the G .C.E.(A/L) then  Grade A or B Pass
should  be obtained  for that subjects at the G.C.E.(O/L) examination.
(c) Applicants with the Qualifications mentioned under above (b) II,  shall be considered, where there
is no sufficient  number  of  the  applicants with qualifications which mentioned under the above
section (b) (i).
4.4.2Selection will be done after calling application from the internal applicants at first for this post. where
there is no sufficient number  of qualified    internal applicants  to  fill  the  vacancies  then,  applications
are  called  from the apprentices and external applicants and the vacancies will be filled.
   4.4.3 The recruited ones from the external applicants, for this post, will be recruited as Trainee  at  first
Selection of  trainees  will be  done as  decided  by the Appointing Authority, through competitive test
and an interview to examine the qualifications. The rules and regulations, mentioned in the section
10.3.4 of the minute shall be relevant to the selected trainees through this.
4.5 Computer Type Setter and Printing Designer:
4.5.1For the Internal Applicants -
(a) Should have passed six (06) subjects including at least two (02) Credit passes inclusive of a credit
pass for Mathematics, Medium Language out of the languages, Sinhala/ Tamil/ English at the
G .C.E.(O/L) examination;
(b) (i) Should have passed all the subjects at ones (except the general common test) including
Sinhala/ Tamil language at the G.C.E.(A/L) examination (pass in three (03) subjects at once
under the old syllabus is sufficient);
(ii) Should  have  obtained a  credit  pass  for English   language in any occasion at the G .C.E.
(O/L) examination, where that subject  had  not passed at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination mentioned
in the section (b) (i).

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
20A
4.5.2For the Apprentices -
(a) Should passed six (06) subjects at once including credit passes at least for four (04) subjects
inclusive of mathematics, Medium language  out of the language, Sinhala/ Tamil/ English at the
G .C.E. (O/L) examination;
(b)  (i) Should have passed all the subjects at once (except the general common test) at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination (pass in three subjects at once under the Old syllabus is sufficient);
 (ii) Should have obtained 
‘A’ grade pass in any occasion at the G.C.E. (O/L) for the subjects of
Sinhala/ Tamil and English Languages where  those subjects had not passed at the G.C.E.
(A/L) examination, mentioned in the section (b) (i);
4.5.350% out of the internal applicants, 50% out of the  apprentices for  recruiting these posts as a ratio are
recruited. However, the Govt. Printer can recruit  the number from  the  other  group  where there is no
required number  of  the qualified applicants in any group.
4.6 Printing Finisher:
4.6.1For the External Applicants -
(a) Should have passed six (06) subjects at once, including credit passes at least four (04) subjects
including of Mathematics,  medium  language, out of  the Sinhala/ Tamil/ English language at the
G .C.E ( O/L) examination;
(b) Should have obtained experience not less than ten (10) years in relevant  to the  field at a recognized
institute;
(c) Should have obtained a competency certificate at N.V .Q. level 4, relevant to the field.
4.6.2For the Internal applicants -
 (a) Should be  an officer in  Grade II  Printing  Aid  service or  above  grade who completed not less than
fifteen (15) years active service in the Department.
4.6.3For the Apprentices -
(a) Should have passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination as mentioned above under section  4.6.1 (a);
      (b) (i) Should have passed all the subjects at once at the G .C.E. (A/L) examination.  (pass three (03)
subjects under the old syllabus is sufficient)
4.6.430% out of the external applicants, 30% out of the internal applicants 40%  out of the apprentices  as
a ratio are recruited for these posts. However, the  Govt.  Printer can recruit the number from  other
group,  where  there is  no  required number of the qualified applicants in any group.
4.6.5Selection of the internal applicants for this post shall be done on the results of the structured interview.
The rules and regulations related   to the  structured interview  is mentioned in the section 10.3.8 of the
Minute, are applied.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
21A
4.7 Printing Technician :
 4.7.1For the Internal Applicants :
(a) Should have obtained two (02) credit passes at least for two subjects  and passed six (06) subjects
inclusive Mathematics, Medium Language; out of the Sinhala/ Tamil/ English languages at the
G .C.E. (O/L) Examination;
(b) Should have completed  not  less  than five  (05)  years  service  as a Fitter/ Electrician in the
Department;
4.7.2Selection of the internal applicants for this post shall be done on the results of  the structured
interview. The rules and regulations, related to the   structured interview, is mentioned in the Section
10.3.8 of the Minute, are applied.
05. Applicants shall proved the payments of contribution to the Employers Trust Fund/ Pension scheme for their
service, within the ten year service, as mentioned in the above Sections 4.1.1(b), 4.2.1(b),4.6.1(b).
Appendix  Two
1. Open competitive examination for the recruitment to the Grade III Executive Service Cadre in the Printing Service.
1.1 Written Examination held in the following subjects:
    (a) Comprehension - two hours - 100 marks
    (b) General Aptitude - one hour - 100 marks
    (c) General knowledge - two hours - 100 marks
Each applicant should sit for all the papers. At least 40% marks should be obtained to pass a paper. Those
who obtained the highest marks shall be called for an interview by considering the number of vacancies
occurred at present, then qualified persons are selected. The Public Service Commission shall decide the
number to be appointed at a time .
1.2 Syllabus :
(a) Comprehension  - This paper means, to express idea of a few short sentences   in one sentence, to
supply meanings for the under noted  terms, to  select  the most appropriate expression to the facts
included in the given paragraph among the optional expressions,  to  answer the  questions by  referring
to  the  given   paragraph and to measure the capability of applicant to understand the meaning and
express clearly by forwarding; the main ideas included in a much  complex paragraph in a Document or
in a Memorandum in their own words.
(b) General Aptitude :- This paper expects to measure, applicants intelligence, and power of understanding
through  checking their  conclusions and reactions related  to  the  given  problems,  within the  literal,
numeral  and  figurative composition.
(c) General Knowledge.- This paper means to measure applicants  apprehending and perceiving, in Political,
Social, Cultural and Economical environment  in Sri Lanka inclusive of the surrounding in which the
applicant live Nationally and Internationally important modern facts as well as relevant Scientific and
Technical development and the subject of printing. The applicants have got  opportunity to select
questions, preferable among the number of questions.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
22A
Appendix  Three
1. The Limited Competitive Examination for the recruitment to the grade III Executive Service Cadre in the Printing
Service.
1.1 Written examination is held in the following subjects:
 (a) General Administration - 3 hrs - 100 Marks
(b) Printing Technology - 3 hrs - 100 Marks
Every applicants should sit for both papers and should obtain at least 40% marks for each question
paper to gain qualification. The qualified persons shall be called for an interview by considering the
number of vacancies occurred, The selected number shall be determined by the Public Service
Commission.
1.2 Syllabus :
(a) General Administration :- Questions consist of the rules and regulations in the Establishments  Code,
Public  Service  Commission   Procedural rules and Departmental Orders to check its knowledge and
apprehension.
 (b) Printing Technology:
 (i) Pre-Printing
Type setting
Lay outing papers
Creating computer designs
Works in process camera
Planning and lay-outing by using film roles
Ripping
Setting images
Forming Plates
Forming polymer plates
(ii)Printing
Printing Offset Litho papers
Print Offset Litho Web
Print Letter Press Forms
Print Letter Press Rotary
(iii)Post-Printing
Cutting
Folding, Gathering and Inserting
Wiring, Sewing sections and Perfect Binding
Forming case covers
Making Ledgers
Foiling
Re-binding and special binding works
(iv) Other
Cutting using dye, Blind  Embossing
Foil Laminating, Creasing and Perforating
Costing and Estimation
Security Printing

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
23A
(v) Future Requirements
Setting Plates
Print Continuous Stationery
Digital Printing
(vi) Compiling
Pre-Editing
Proof- Reading
Examining Machine Proofs
(vii) Maintaining and repairing machines and machine parts in the equipments,
Maintaining and repairing machines and Electric parts in the  equipments,
Maintaining and repairing machines and electronic parts in the equipments,
Maintaining and repairing computer and electronic parts,
Maintaining and repairing buildings (including electric parts),
(Applicants are given opportunity to answer four (04) questions  from four (4) preferable parts
out of the presented questions from the each part mentioned above).
Appendix  Four
1. Structured interview for the recruitment to the Supervisory Management Assistant (Technology)  service cadre.
Headings for giving marks Amount of Maximum
Marks
(a) Seniority and Experience: 50
(i) 05 marks per year for the active service  in Grade III/I
(ii) 1 mark per each year to be approached, after 5 years fulfilling qualifications for
the active service in Grade III/II
When considering the service, the period of suspended increments will be deducted.
(b) Additional Qualifications :3 5
(i) For science/computer Degree - 20
Training Courses in a Recognized Printing Institute  -
(i) for a Higher Diploma certificate in Printing  Technology - 15
(ii) sh ould have obtained a certificate after following a  course not less than 12 months
in Printing Technology - 20
(10 marks per one course)
(iii) Should have obtained a certificate after following a  course not less than 06 months
in Printing  Technology - 15
(05 marks per course)
(c) Performance: 10
(i) Within foregone 05 years -  02 marks per performance of 'very good'
01 mark per performance of 'good'
(d) Merits/ skills displayed at the interview 05
___
Total 100

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
24A
Appendix  Five
1. Aptitude Test :
(a) A written aptitude test will be held to promote (from Grade II to Grade I and from Grade III to Grade II) for those
who show an Extra Ordinary performance in an executive, Supervisory Management Assistant (Technology)
and Management Assistant  (Technology) service cadre inclusive of the service.
(b) At least 60% of marks should be obtained for pass this test. Further the promotion test under an Extraordinary
performance will be conducted once a year and an  officer can sit only once.
(c) Where an officer was unable to sit for the promotion test under special   performance on due date, owing to a
special reason beyond his control the officer can sit for the Aptitude test which conduct afterwards. For such
an officer , the date of pass that test will be considered as the date of promoting under the Extra Ordinary
performance. For this, the Appointing Authority should obtain relevant permission from the secretary to the
Ministry.
(d) Syllabus -
This is a limited aptitude test to measure the acquirement of knowledge,  skills and aptitudes as well as
expected competency required for performing all the duties enforced to him with efficient beyond the level of
general efficiency.
(e) Written Question paper - Duration 1 1/2 hrs.
Appendix  Six
1. The Efficiency bar examination for the Executive Officers
1.1 The 1st efficiency bar examination;
1.1.1This examination consists of the following subjects;
(a) Administration - 3 hrs - 100 marks
(b) Financial Methods - 3 hrs - 100 marks
1.1.2Syllabus
(a) Administration:
 (i) Office methods :
Knowledge of the rules and regulations included in the following chapters of the Establishments
code will be examined. IV , V , VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV , XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXX,
XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII.
(ii)Procedural rules of the Public Service Commission.
(b) Financial methods in the Public Sector;
(i) Knowledge of rules and regulations included in the V olume I of the  Financial Code (Except
chapter IX and X);
 (ii)Govt. Procurement Procedure.
1.2 The 2nd efficiency bar examination:
1.2.1 This examination consists of the following subjects:
(a) English Language;
(b) Computer Literacy.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
25A
1.2.2 Examination Procedure:
(a) English Language
   (i) Grammar in English;
  (ii)Comprehension (answer questions reference to a given context);
  (iii)Ability of expression (Write essay, reference to a given topic)
(b) Computer Literacy
It will be necessary to obtained a certificate by following a course to pass these subjects.
    (i) Should have obtained a certificate by  following a computer course in  not less than six month
in an Institute recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education;
 (ii)Should have obtained a certificate in computer Diploma given by the National Business
Management Institute;
 (iii)Should have obtained a certificate in Computer Diploma given by an University;
  (iv) Should have obtained a certificate in Computer Diploma, presented by an institute, recognized
by the University High Commission as a Higher Education Institute;
 (v) Should have obtained a certificate by following other computer course, not less than one year,
and recognized by the Appointing Authority.
1.3 The 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination:
1.3.1 This examination consists of the following subjects:
(a) Management and Organization Methods;
(b) To present project report in Printing Technology.
1.3.2 Examination Procedure:
(a) Management and Organizational methods -
(i) Principals in the Management and Organization methods;
(ii) Methods and Techniques in the Strategic Management.
(b) Compile Project report relevant to Printing technology. - Present  compiled  project  not  less  than
3,000  words on  a topic  relevant  to   the Printing  technology, given by the Government Printer
Appendix  Seven
01. The Efficiency Bar Examination for Supervisory Management Assistant Technology Officers
Examination Procedure.- Written examinations will be conducted by the Appointing Authority to examine the
knowledge of the officers in relevant subjects. At least 40% marks should be obtained for each subject to pass
these examinations.
1.1 The First Efficiency Bar Examination:
1.1.1 This examination consists of the following subjects:
(a) General administration;
(b) Technical Skills.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
26A
1.1.2 Syllabus :
(a) General Administration  -
This  is   an  examination  to  examine  the  knowledge  of regulations  included in  the  chapters II,
IV ,  VII, VIII,  XII, XIII,  XXIV ,XLVII  and   XLVIII   in  the   Establishments  code  and  Public   Service
Commission Procedural rules.
(b) Technical Skills -
This Examination, will examine the knowledge in Printing Technology works used in the department
under the main activities in Pre-Printing, Printing and Finishing.
1.2 The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination:
1.2.1 This examination consists of the following subjects :–
(a) Management Principals ;
(b) English Language.
1.2.2 Syllabus:
(a) Management Principle -
The knowledge in Planning, deciding, Organizing, Staffing,  Leading, Motivating, the Management
levels and Participation management will be examined.
(b) English Language -
Capability of handling grammatical language, apprehending and expressing will be examined.
1.3 The 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination :
1.3.1 This examination consists of the following subjects :–
(a) Financial Regulation ;
(b) Printing Technology.
1.3.2 Syllabus :
(a) Financial Regulation
Perception of knowledge - the facts included in the following section in the   Financial Regulations:
F.R     6 - 79 Annual Expenditure Assessment
F.R   82 - 85 Annual Income Assessment
F.R 101 - 113 Loss and Abandons
F.R 124 - 128 Chief Counting Officer, Counting Officer
F.R 133 - 134 Internal Audit
F.R 135 - 137 Delegate Powers, Approval, Certification and Payment
F.R 165 - 189 Receiving
F.R 200 - 289 Payments
(b) Printing Technology :
Should have obtained a certificate after following a course not less than 12  months, conducted by
the Printing Institute in Printing Technology, to pass  these subjects.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
27A
Appendix  Eight
01. Efficiency Bar Examination for the Management Assistant Technology Officers :
1.1 The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination  -
1.1.1This examination consists of the following subjects:
(a) General Administration - 2 hrs - 100 Marks
(b) Practical Knowledge in the relevant field -  100 Marks
1.1.2Syllabus :
(a) General Administration  :
Knowledge in Public  Service  Commission  Procedural  rules, rules and regulations included in the
II, IV , VII, VIII, XII, XIII, XXIV , XLVII and XLVIII chapters and Internal Orders.
(b) Practical Knowledge in the relevant field:
Knowledge and understanding in the officers relevant to the field shall be examined by a committee
appointed by the Government Printer
1.2 The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination:
1.2.1This Examination consists of the following Subjects;
(a) English Language - 2 hrs - 100 Marks
(b) Printing Technology - 2 hrs - 100 Marks
1.2.2Syllabus :
(a) English Language -
This test is to examine the knowledge and capability of understanding  general grammar in English
language.
(b) Printing Technology -
Should have obtained a  certificate after   following a course in Printing Technology in not less
than six months, conducted by the Printing Institute of Sri Lanka, to pass these subjects.
1.3 The 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination:
1.3.1This Examination consists of the following Subjects:
(a) General Administration - 2 hrs - 100 Marks
(b) Financial Regulation - 2 hrs - 100 Marks
1.3.2Syllabus :
(a) General Administration -
The knowledge in rules and regulations included in the Public Service Commission Procedural,
rules in the chapters of the Establishment code relevant in the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination under
the General Administration.
(b) Financial Regulations  -
Knowledge in the facts included in the following chapters in the Establishments Code:
F.R - 124 - 128 - Chief Counting Officer, Counting Officer
F.R - 133 - 134 - Internal Audit
F.R - 135 - 137 - Delegating Powers, approval, certification and payment
F.R - 165 - 189 - Receiving
F.R - 200 - 298 - Payments

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
28A
Appendix  Nine
 Structured Interview conducted, to promote from Grade II to Grade I in the Supervisory Management Assistant
Technician and Management Assistant Technical Service Cadre under the Extra - Ordinary Performance.
01. Authority who conduct the interview - Govt. Printer
02. The interview conduct once a year on the requirement
03. Marks procedure at the interview:
Areas for which Marks are awarded Maximum Marks Passed Marks
1. For the Special Contribution given to the institute, when
performing duties (05 marks for each contribution)              50
2. Performance Evaluation (for preceding immediately 05 years on the 50%
date of promotion)Very Good - 09 Marks
Good - 06 Marks Satisfactory- 03 Marks  45
   3. Skills displayed in the interview                 05
 100
Appendix  Ten
Address : .............................
 Date : ............................
From...............................
To : Govt. Printer,
Request for the Grade Promotion in the Printing Service
01. Full Name: ......................................
02. Post held at Present: ...................................
03. Class and Grade belongs: ...................................
04. Class and Grade requests for the promotion: ..............................
Having being employed in the Class ........................Grade....................... in the Printing Service at present, I h ave
fulfilled all the qualifications, required, to promote Class ......................... Grade......................... mentioned  in the relevant
service Minute. Therefore I kindly request the promotion to the Class..................... Grade...................
Signature: ..................................
Name: ................................
Designation: ....................
07-209
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.