

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1760$32 - 2012 uehs ui 31 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'05'31
No. 1760/32  -  THURSDAY   MAY   31,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
NATIONAL   MATERNAL   AND   CHILD   HEALTH   POLICY    OF    SRI    LANKA
THE National Maternal and Child Health Policy and the Revised Maternal and Child Health Action Plan and are approved by
the Cabinet Ministers, to enable effective implementation from today onwards. They were long felt needs of the country and
will enable policy guidance and directions to relevant stakeholders and provincial authorities for effective implementation of
the Maternal and Child Health Programme.
D
R. T. R. C. RUBERU,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
No. 385,
Re. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
31st May, 2012.
1. PREAMBLE
Sri Lanka, being promoted as a middle income country with a per capita GNP of 2804 US dollars 
1, has achieved
significant gains in the area of human development. Over the past few decades the country is undergoing a rapid demographic
change. The rate of population growth has declined from 2.8 in 1953 to 0.7
2 percent  and the total fertility rate has dropped
from 5.0 in 1962-64 to 2.3 during the period of 2001-2006 3. The infant mortality rate has also declined from 72.4 in 1955 to 9.0
per 1000 live births in 2009 4. Similarly maternal mortality ratio has decreased from 405 per 100,000 live births in 1955 to 31.1 per
100,000 live births in 2010 5. A well-established health service, free of cost to the consumer, together with universal free
education has contributed to bring about this situation.
The demographic change over the years has brought about several important policy concerns in terms of maternal
and child health. For instance, women in the reproductive age group (15 – 49 years) comprise 5.6 million (27.8 percent) of the
population, creating a considerable demand for the provision of quality reproductive health services.  The population under
15 years of age continued to remain high at 26.3 percent
6 while further 26 percent comprised adolescents and youth.
1 Central Bank report - Provisional Data - 2012
2 Census Report - 2012
3 Department of Census and Statistics – DHS survey 2006/7
4 Registrar General’s Department, Provisional Data – 2009
5 Family Health Bureau, Annual Report on Family Health Sri Lanka, 2010
6 Department of Census and Statistics - 2008
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
2A
Paradoxically the country has one of the fastest ageing populations among the developing countries, with around 9 percent
of the population over the age of 60 years.
A dominant feature of the health policy in Sri Lanka has been the diffusion of health services throughout the
country, which provides institutional and domiciliary care to women and children. It is significant that the system of Maternal
and Child Health (MCH) services has evolved as a part of the general health services, which has helped the development of
a comprehensive, network for maternal and child health services throughout the country.
Though much has been achieved in the past, changing scenarios in MCH arena call for new policies to address the
broader health needs of women, children and adolescents including those directed at the new challenges faced by them.
Such policies would help to guide successful implementation of the MCH programme in the present context.
2.  BACKGROUND
Maternal and child health in Sri Lanka has a very long history, which dates back to the early 20 th century. An
organised effort to provide maternal and child health services commenced with the introduction of the Health Unit System in
the mid 1920’s, which was thereafter extended to cover the entire country. In 1965, family planning (FP) was accepted as a part
of national health policy and its service components were integrated with the MCH services of the Ministry of Health. In
1968, the MCH Bureau was established within the Ministry of Health, to oversee the MCH/FP services island wide. In
1972/73 population and family planning received considerable support from United Nations (UN) agencies and other
international agencies, with family planning being implemented as an integral component of the MCH services. The MCH
Bureau was re-designated the Family Health Bureau (FHB) to highlight the integrated nature of the MCH/FP services. The
FHB then became the central organization of the Ministry of Health responsible for planning, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of the MCH/FP services, also referred to the Family Health Programme.
The evolution of the MCH services in Sri Lanka has been nurtured by a number of international health initiatives
which include the Safe Motherhood Initiative launched in Nairobi in 1987, and the Reproductive Health Initiative following
the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo in 1994. In par with these international initiatives,
Sri Lanka also produced several policy documents relevant to MCH. The first of which was the National Health Policy of 1992
followed by that of 1996, both of which identified maternal and child health as a priority concern. In 1998 a Population and
Reproductive Health policy with eight goals was developed, out of which six, fall within the direct ambit of the MCH/FP
services or the Family Health programme. In September 2000 Sri Lanka became a signatory to achieve Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs) in 2015 with two goals having  a significant focus on health status of mother and child (MDG 4 and 5). The
Country Plan “ Mahinda Chinthana Idiri Dakma” has given high priority to Maternal and Child Health showing the importance
attached to it by the present Government.
MCH has been a long standing priority in the country and this has been reflected in the National Health Policy
(1992). The need for formulating a separate MCH policy has arisen due to the evolving changes in priority and the new
challenges on the maternal, child and the adolescent health. The evolving health care delivery system and new policy climate
have provided opportunities for reviewing the past policies and for developing new policies and innovations in MCH care
with a broader view.
In this context it has to be emphasized that policies relating to upliftment of household socioeconomic status and
safe environment among the less privileged have also a major part to play in the wellbeing of mother and child and the family
at large. When we focus on the health of the mother and child it is imperative that we consider certain factors which affect the
health of the whole family. The availability of safe water supply, adequate sanitation and proper nutrition are basic needs for
maintaining health of the family as a unit. These are often cited as the single set of highest priority social services for poo r
households that would help to promote good health. In addition protection of family members from vector borne diseases
such as Malaria in affected Districts should be high in the policy agenda of such disease prevention programs. Emerging
health concerns such as Non Communicable Diseases (NCD), Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission of HIV/AIDS
(PPTCT) and Eradication of Congenital Syphilis (ECS) which have their preventive measures linked to MCH services need to
be addressed within the MCH policy frame work.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
3A
The central role that is continued to be  played by the Ministry of Health and FHB in   policy making and planning
of the services, and their collaborative links with the other health and health related services/programmes emphasizes the
need for a well documented Maternal and Child Health Policy to work towards national goals. Further the change in managerial
processes as a result of devolution of MCH functions to the provinces calls for clear national policies to enable policy
guidance and directions to the provinces for them to function effectively. Considering the challenges to MCH, arising from
the rapid demographic transition that has resulting in new demands for services, rising people’s expectations, and reported
trends in unhealthy lifestyles and behavioral changes of adolescents, it calls for the need to have a separate Maternal and
Child Health Policy. Such a documented policy will provide the much needed direction to strategic planning, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of MCH programme to address such issues effectively.
3.  SCOPE
The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) programme was primarily directed at women during pregnancy, delivery and
postpartum period, and at newborns, infants, and children up to 18 years (including school children). Most efforts to improve
pregnancy outcomes during the past several years have focused on promoting antenatal care, delivery care and care for post
partum mothers. In order to be most  effective, appropriate interventions must be introduced before pregnancy and continued
after delivery to prevent or detect early and  manage appropriately any health conditions and risk factors that contribute to
adverse maternal and infant outcomes. Addressing behavior patterns related to pregnancy, delivery and post partum periods
of women themselves, their families and the community is also equally important to achieve positive maternal and infant
outcomes.
Thus, the improvement in the health status of women and children will be better achieved if a broader approach to
MCH is adopted. In the formulation of this policy, such a  broader perspective is pursued  that would  not  only emphasize
broad policies relating to maternal, newborn, infant and child care but also include those relating to pre pregnancy care, care
of older children including adolescents. Family planning has been identified as an integral component of the MCH services
while certain MCH related health concerns such as Prevention of NCDs and STD/HIV/AIDS, gender and women’s health
also have been incorporated as appropriate in the policy document.
The MCH policy however does not cover all aspects of reproductive health which is   a much broader concept that
extends beyond the childbearing years and covers all aspects relating to the reproductive system, its functions and processes.
Therefore, MCH programme linkages with other relevant health and non health programmes should be strengthened to
facilitate coordination as required.
This document provides policy and strategic directions to continuing and emerging concerns and challenges in
Maternal and Child Health. It also includes appropriate strategies which focus on strengthening of the already-established
Maternal and Child Health services.
4. VISION
A Sri Lankan nation that has optimized the quality of life and health potential of all women, children and their
families.
5.  MISSION
To contribute to the attainment of highest possible levels of health of all women, children and families through
provision of comprehensive, sustainable, equitable and quality Maternal and Child Health services in a supportive, culturally
acceptable and family friendly settings.
7- G 16112

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
4A
6.  POLICY GOALS
MCH policy consists of twelve goals.
Goal 1
Promote health of women and their partners to enter pregnancy in optimal health, and to maintain it throughout the life
course.
Goal 2
Ensure a safe outcome for both mother and newborn through provision of quality care during pregnancy, delivery and post
partum period.
Goal 3
Ensure reduction of perinatal and neonatal morbidity and mortality through provision of quality care.
Goal 4
Enable all children under five years of age to survive and reach their full potential for growth and development through
provision of optimal care.
Goal 5
Ensure that children aged 5 to 9 years and adolescents realize their full potential in growth and development in a conducive
and resourceful physical and psychosocial environment.
Goal 6
Enable children with special needs to optimally develop their mental, physical and social capacities to function as productive
members of society.
Goal 7
Enable all couples to have a desired number of children with optimal spacing whilst preventing unintended pregnancies.
Goal  8
To promote reproductive health of men and women assuring gender equity and equality.
Goal 9
Ensure that National, Provincial, District and Divisional Level Health Managers are responsive and accountable for provision
of high quality MCH services.
Goal 10
Ensure effective monitoring and evaluation of MCH programme that would generate quality information to support decision
making.
Goal 11
Promote research for policy and practice in MCH. (Maternal and Child health)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
5A
Goal 12
Ensure sustainable conducive behaviours among individuals, families and communities to promote Maternal and Child
Health.
6.1  POLICY  GOAL  1
Promote health of women and their partners to enter pregnancy in optimal health, and to maintain it throughout the life
course.
Rationale
Promotion of health of women of reproductive age before conception, improves pregnancy-related outcomes and is
helpful in reduction of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.
The maternal mortality ratio in 1935 was 2700 per 100,000 live births and by 2010, the maternal mortality ratio had
been reduced to 31.1 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births
1. It is reported that 72-75 percent of these maternal deaths are
preventable, and in most cases correctable conditions were not detected until the woman became pregnant, while some
conditions were detected only during delivery.
Early detection and treatment of several medical conditions such as heart disease, anemia, micronutrient and other
nutritional deficiencies, diabetes, liver disease and STD/HIV/AIDS will help to improve the health of the woman at
pre-pregnant stage, and prevent complications of pregnancy.
Certain personal behaviours, psychosocial risks, and environmental exposures associated with negative pregnancy
outcomes can also be detected and modified before conception.  Changes in the knowledge, attitudes and behaviours related
to reproductive health among both men and women are useful to improve health during  the preconception period, and also
during the life course.
Increasing incidence of STD /HIV /AIDS requires close monitoring of those conditions. In order to reduce the
prevalence of these diseases and protect the women from their adverse effects, some activities of those programmes have to
be integrated into MCH programme,  for example by providing all child bearing age women attending MCH/FP clinics access
to STD/HIV/AIDS services.
Infant mortality rate in Sri Lanka has come down rapidly over the years, and has remained stagnant for the last
decade or so. Eighty percent of the infants die during the neonatal period. Nearly 17 percent of newborns are of low birth
weight. New strategies have to be implemented to further reduce the infant mortality rate, of which some interventions for
reduction of infant mortality and low birth weight should be started from the pre-conception stage.
Women who suffer from various chronic disease conditions such as diabetes can have adverse effects on pregnancy
outcomes, leading to still births, neonatal deaths, and birth defects. These can be prevented by proper care during
preconception  and antenatal period.
Considering the above, a new package for “ pre-conception care” has been introduced to the maternal and child
health programme. The main objective of provision of this package is to create awareness, provide health promotion,
screening, and interventions for women of reproductive age to reduce risk factors that might affect future pregnancies.
Attention is also paid towards maintaining reproductive health of women and their partners throughout the life
course. The Government of Sri Lanka was a signatory to the Program of Action adopted at the International Conference of
Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo in 1994. Since then, the concept of reproductive health has been introduced
addressing reproductive health issues of the adolescent, the post-adolescent before they become mothers and extending to
women in the elderly age group  thus encompassing a life cycle approach to Maternal and Child Health. Women’s health
concerns in MCH include continuity of care and access to services before, during, after and independent of childbearing.
1 Register General's Department –Provincial Data - 2009

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
6A
1 Dept. of Census & Statistics –DHS survey 2006/7
In keeping with the Government’s commitment to provide comprehensive MCH services based on the life cycle approach, a
“Well Woman Clinic” (WWC) program was initiated in 1996, focusing on women at and over 35 years of age with selected
services including those related to non communicable diseases such as Diabetes Mellitus, Hypertension, Cancer prevention
and management.  The concept of screening healthy well women at community level is an approach that is relatively new,
requiring public awareness.
Many of the programmes and services including the health services that are aimed at women mainly focus on the
women who have access to services. However, there is an important group of women with special needs requiring special
attention and care who do not have access to the routine reproductive health services. This group includes institutionalized
women, migrant women, displaced and marginalized women etc.
Strategies
(a) Ensure that women of childbearing age and their partners receive a comprehensive package of pre-conception
care.
(b) Address specific reproductive health issues of women and their partners throughout the life course.
(c) Address the reproductive health issues of women with special needs.
(d) Integrate relevant STD and HIV/AIDS services to MCH programm.
(e) Strengthen partnership with other stakeholders who provide care for women.
6.2   POLICY  GOAL  2
Ensure a safe outcome for both mother and newborn through provision of quality care during pregnancy, delivery and post
partum period.
Rationale
The steady development of services for the mother and newborn, that encompass both domiciliary and institutional
care, has made a significant impact on the decline of maternal and infant mortality.  It is reported that 99 percent of pregnant
women received antenatal care and that 98 percent received trained assistance at delivery (Census, 2007
1). These levels of
service coverage need to be maintained and improved upon to reach all women in the country. In particular the maternal
mortality ratio can be further reduced with concerted systemic health and other appropriate  interventions.
Certain quality aspects of the services provided specially in smaller hospitals and failure to meet the aspirations of
the people with regard to the place of delivery remain as outstanding issues that need to be addressed. In this context, of the
94 percent of deliveries that take place in government hospitals, almost 75 percent occur in the larger hospitals that provide
Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric Care (CEmOC). This is a consequence of mothers wishing to have, “the best available
care at hand” during delivery, even if such specialized care was needed or not. This has led to overcrowding of the maternity
units in the larger hospitals and underutilization of maternity units of the smaller hospitals. Haemorrhage, Eclampsia
2 Pregnancy
Induced Hypertension, Septic Abortion and  Heart disease complicating pregnancy are main causes of maternal deaths. The
nutritional deficiencies such as anaemia during the pregnancy and postpartum period, may contribute to maternal and
newborn morbidity and mortality. The variation in district differential MMR is also a serious issue that is yet to be addressed.
The shortfall in coverage and quality of care in the post partum period also contributes in no small measure to
maternal morbidity and mortality and needs to be addressed. So also is the accessibility to maternal and newborn services by
population groups such as those displaced by natural disasters or civil strife, remote rural populations and all other vulnerable
families.
Strategies
(a) Ensure quality maternal care (antenatal, intra-natal and postpartum) through appropriate systems and
mechanisms in field and institutional settings.
(b) Maintain optimal nutritional status of pregnant and postpartum women.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
7A
(c) Ensure availability and accessibility of Emergency Obstetric Care facilities and an appropriate referral system.
(d) Enhance maternal and newborn services for vulnerable families and in emergency situation.
(e) Strengthen the surveillance system for maternal morbidity and mortality.
6.3   POLICY  GOAL  3
Ensure reduction of perinatal and neonatal morbidity and mortality through provision of quality care.
Rationale
Infant mortality and neonatal mortality in Sri Lanka declined dramatically in the last century. The Malaria Control
Programme, the Expanded Programme of Immunization, the Safe Motherhood Programme and Promotion of Breastfeeding are
some of the key interventions responsible for this spectacular reduction in Infant and Neonatal mortality. However, the infant
and neonatal mortality has been stagnant for over a decade now. Just as in other countries that have reduced the infant
mortality, neonatal mortality contributes to nearly 80 percent of infant mortality in Sri Lanka.  A neontal death rate of 6.2 per
1000 live births has been reported in 2009. Most of these deaths occur as a result of pregnancy related or delivery related
complications. Analysis of neonatal mortality data shows that more than two thirds of the neonatal deaths are early neonatal
deaths occurring within the first week of life.
The other prominent feature is the geographical variation in neonatal and infant mortality in Sri Lanka. There are
District and institutional variations in neonatal mortality in the Country according to the published mortality data through
vital registration system and the hospital based management information system.
Further reduction of neonatal mortality in Sri Lanka needs well focused interventions. Promotion of nutrition of
pregnant women to improve birth outcomes and reduce low birth-weight, identifying and treating medical conditions such as
diabetes and hypertension are among some measures that could be taken prior to childbirth. At the time of delivery obstetric
care of good quality including timely referrals would also help to reduce perinatal and neonatal mortality.
To produce favourable outcomes in early weeks of life, essential and emergency newborn care practices have to be
strengthened and standardized in the health care facilities for management of newborns. Breastfeeding has to be initiated and
established and exclusive breastfeeding for six months has to be supported by all health care professionals.
A perinatal and neonatal morbidity and mortality surveillance system is essential for monitoring and evaluation of
the perinatal and neonatal care services in the country. Perinatal Audit has to be established as a managerial tool to enhance
the quality of perinatal care in the institutions.
Strategies
(a) Institute evidence-based practices in newborn care in field and institutional settings.
(b) Ensure availability and accessibility to basic and advanced newborn care facilities.
(c) Protect, promote and support breastfeeding practices with special emphasis in   delivery settings.
(d) Strengthen the surveillance for perinatal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.
6.4   POLICY  GOAL   4
Enable all children under five years of age to survive and reach their full potential for growth and development through
provision of optimal care.
Rationale
Though in South East Asia Region, Sri Lanka’s infant and child mortality rates are considered low in comparison
with international norms, they still rate high, especially when compared to some of the other social and health indicators in
Sri Lanka. Hence, determinants need to be selectively identified and effectively addressed. The well-developed MCH
1 Register General's Department –Provincial Data - 2009

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
8A
infrastructure and the educational levels of the population provide the means to realistically target the main causes of death
and morbidities in childhood.
Though much headway has been made in reducing the disease load with regard to the main communicable diseases
of childhood, much remains to be done. Given the country’s relatively low infant mortality, the reduction of child malnutrition
is yet to be achieved, with one out of five children aged five years and below being underweight (DHS 2006/07–underweight
prevalence 21.1%), with social and cultural practices being implicated as possible causes. There is a need to actively promote
nutrition education and counseling to mothers and caregivers of children. Growth monitoring and promotion have been in
progress for many years, but the achievement of the desired impact is still slow.
There is also a need to strengthen psychosocial development of children with specific inputs in the age groups
0-3 years and 3-5 years. Among the other challenges are those to keep age appropriate immunization of infants and children
at optimum levels all the time and to promote good oral health.
Strategies
(a) Ensure the provision of quality child care services at both field and institutional settings.
(b) Maintain optimal nutritional status by implementing evidence based interventions; specifically ensuring
exclusive breastfeeding for 6 completed months, followed by appropriate complementary feeding together with
continuation of breastfeeding for two years and beyond, regular growth monitoring and promotion.
(c) Ensure evidence-based practices in the management of childhood illnesses.
(d) Strengthen the surveillance system on childhood morbidity and mortality.
(e) Optimize psychosocial development.
(f) Ensure age appropriate immunization.
(g) Ensure optimal oral health.
(h) Ensure adequate childcare services including nutrition during emergency situations.
6.5  POLICY  GOAL   5
Ensure that children aged 5 to 9 years and adolescents realize their full potential in growth and development in a conducive
and resourceful physical and psychosocial environment.
Rationale
In 2008, the school census revealed that there are 9662 schools in Sri Lanka with a school population of approximately
3.9 million. More than 60 percent of school children belong to the adolescent age group of 10 – 19 years.
1
The School Health Programme which commenced in 1918 has continued to address the health issues of school
children and adolescents and this programme needs to be improved upon with a collaborative and multidisciplinary approach
involving many stakeholders.
The implementation of school health programme is the responsibility of both Health and Education Ministries. The
Family Health Bureau is the focal point for the school  and adolescent health programmes in the Ministry of Health and the
services are delivered through Primary Health Care infrastructure while the provincial education and health authorities are
responsible for implementation of the programme in the decentralized system.
The major components of the school health programme are school medical services including counseling services,
maintenance of healthy school environment, life skills based health education, school community participation and
implementation of healthy school policies. Many attempts have been taken to improve the coverage of school medical
inspection in the recent past and as a result the coverage has increased to 89% in 2010
2, however, the quality aspects of the
programme still need improvement.
1 School Census, Ministry of Education 2008
2 Family Health Bureau, Annual Report on Family Health Sri Lanka 2010

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
9A
In order to achieve the full education potential of children and adolescents, they should also be provided with
quality care that includes not only general health, but also oral health, mental health and prevention of substance abuse,
promote life skills and positive behaviours that would form an integral part of School Health Programme.
Considering the various challenges faced by a child during transition from childhood to adulthood, where adolescents
start to make lifestyle choices that affect their health, provision of a safe and nurturing environment and appropriate care for
adolescents remain crucial. In an attempt to elevate the focus on health and wellbeing of school children and adolescents by
all the stakeholders, the health promoting concept was introduced to schools in 2007. This initiative has helped to strengthen
the important partnerships between the Central Ministries of Health and Education, Provincial Health and Education Authorities
and also with other stakeholders by working together on a comprehensive approach to improve school and adolescent
health.
Strategies
(a) Strengthen partnerships between Ministries of Health and Education, other relevant stakeholders and
communities for the implementation of a comprehensive child and adolescent health programme in school and
community settings.
(b) Implement need based health education focusing on skill development.
(c) Promote nutrition and healthy lifestyles among children and adolescents.
(d) Ensure access to child and adolescent friendly health services, including oral health services and counseling.
(e) Empower children and adolescents to make informed choices regarding their sexual and reproductive health
issues.
(f) Empower parents, guardians and teachers in caring for children and adolescents.
6.6   POLICY  GOAL   6
Enable children with special needs to optimally develop their mental, physical and social capacities to function as productive
members of the society.
Rationale
It is necessary that every child should be supported in such a way that enables them to optimally develop their
mental, physical and social capacities to be independent and  function as productive members of the society.
Many of the programmes that are aimed at promoting child health, the focus has generally been on the children who
are accessed through the available services. However, there is an important group of children, who are not accessed through
the health services as at present and who require special attention. This group includes children who are physically, mentally
and socially disabled, children subjected to abuse of all forms, street children, displaced and marginalized children including
children in probation schools, orphanages and prisons and children left behind by migrant workers.
The reasons as to why such children exist in today’s society are multifaceted. Hence the approaches to be used to
improve the status of these children also need to be multi-faceted. Even though limited reports are available on such children,
there is no reliable data on the magnitude and the nature of the problem, and their needs, especially from a health perspective.
The role of the health sector in promoting this group to optimally develop their mental, physical and social capacities
to be independent and function as productive members of the society has to be identified. There is also a need for the health
sector to liaise with the other sectors that contribute towards the expected outcome.
Strategies
(a) Integrate an appropriate program to address the health needs of children with special needs into the existing
child health program.
(b) Strengthen the inter-sectoral collaboration among key stakeholders providing care for children with special
needs.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
10A
1 Family Health Bureau, Annual Report on Family Health Sri Lanka, 2006-2007
2 Rajapakse, L., (2000) Estimates of induced abortion in Urban and Rural Sri Lanka.
6.7   POLICY  GOAL  7
Enable all couples to have a desired number of children with optimal spacing whilst preventing unintended pregnancies.
Rationale
Family Planning (FP) services provided by the government are integrated with maternal and child health services
and offer a wide range of modern contraceptive methods and services for regulating the number and spacing of children. FP
services also include services for sub-fertile couples. Temporary modern methods are provided by a network of more than
1800 family planning clinics. In addition, primary healthcare staff such as Public Health Midwives (PHMs) and Public Health
Inspectors (PHIs) distribute oral contraceptive pills and condoms in the community. Also, more than 100 medical institutions
provide permanent family planning methods (sterilizations). In addition to the government health sector, FP is also supported
by three well-established Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs), who also provide mobile outreach services
1.
With a history of almost five decades of FP services in Sri Lanka, acceptance for modern contraceptive methods has
steadily increased. However, recent studies have shown that unintended pregnancies due to unmet need for contraception
(i.e. percentage of married, fertile women who do not desire to have children and not using a FP method), leading to induced
abortion is a phenomenon that is increasingly seen within marriage, indicating that it is being used for spacing of births or for
limiting family size 
2.
The main reasons for unintended pregnancies is the inadequate services for permanent family planning methods
(male & female sterilizations) and a significant percentage of women using natural and traditional methods for family planning,
resulting in a greater chance of method failure. Therefore, it is imperative to address the unmet need for contraception by
meeting the demand for permanent methods and motivating clients using natural and traditional methods to use modern
contraceptive methods.
Today the government takes full responsibility for contraceptive supplies. Since the government is the major source
of contraceptives for clients, there is a need to focus on contraceptive logistics including procurement, storage, distribution,
monitoring, supervision and evaluation. A Reproductive Health Commodity Security System has been developed for this
purpose. Contraceptive services by the government are provided free of cost to the client. The NGOs provide contraceptives
(mainly condoms and pills) through a social marketing program at a nominal cost. The Emergency Contraceptive Pill (ECP) is
also marketed as a branded product by NGOs at retail outlets (pharmacies) and seems to gain popularity.
Strategies
(a) Ensure the availability and accessibility to quality modern family planning services.
(b) Address the unmet need for contraception.
(c) Ensure availability of sterilization services in institutions.
(d) Establish an appropriate system for post-abortion care.
(e) Ensure the uninterrupted availability of contraceptive commodities [Reproductive Health Commodity Security
(RHCS)].
(f) Strengthen, rationalize & streamline services for sub-fertile couples.
6.8    POLICY  GOAL   8
To promote reproductive health of men and women assuring gender equity and equality.
Rationale
Even though gender equity and equality in Sri Lanka are considered as being satisfactory compared to other
countries of the region, there are still several health related areas that have a direct effect on reproductive health and need

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
11A
attention.  These areas include specific issues related to gender such as gender based violence,  including domestic violence,
lack of choice for women to control the number of pregnancies, difficulties in  accessing  healthcare and good nutrition,
gender differences in health related behaviours and higher vulnerability of women  to STI and  HIV/AIDs due to their inability
to negotiate safe sex.
Inadequate information of women’s status especially lack of reliable data on gender issues has jeopardized work
towards addressing the problems. Efforts must be made to develop gender disaggregated and gender sensitive health and
social indicators to enable more objective analysis of the impact of the gender issues affecting reproductive health.
The multi factorial nature of the reasons for limitations and differences in gender equity and equality warrants the
need to take a holistic view of the issues, and critically review the currently available policies and programmes of different
sectors.
Advocacy can play a significant role in improving women’s health status through creating an environment that is
conducive to the achievement of gender equality and equity starting with sensitizing of policy makers and programme
planners at all  levels. Community mobilization towards gender equity and equality is also very vital, so as to achieve long
term results.
The traditional norm among Sri Lankan families is for the mother to be the care giver for children and father to be the
sole income owner. The involvement of men in children and household chores has not been an accepted practice. Over the
years with the increasing female literacy, more and more women are employed and a substantial contribution is made to the
family economy. In today’s context men need to be encouraged to be more concerned about their own health and the health
of the family  while playing  an active role in child care as well as sharing household work. There is a gap in the current
healthcare delivery system to actively involve the males in MCH/FP activities. The recent policy of allowing the husband to
be with his wife at time of delivery is a positive step towards a father friendly MCH service that encourages strong relationships
and a spirit of sharing.
Migrant workers both men and women constitute a important sector of the population with special health needs. By
National Migration Policy the country promotes overseas job opportunities for men and women. Addressing their health
needs (Prior to departure, while working overseas and after returning ) is of utmost importance to secure their health.
Therefore the MCH programme should address reproductive health needs of migrant workers by providing services and also
by developing linkages with relevant stakeholders.
Strategies
(a) Address gender issues related to reproductive health
(b) Ensure an effective response from preventive and curative health sector for prevention and management of
gender based violence issues
(c) Incorporate sex disaggregated data in to the health management information system, so as to ensure gender
equity and equality in reproductive health services
(d) Promote compilation and appropriate management of data related to gender based violence within the health
sector
(e) Strengthen partnership within the resource network of organizations and persons actively involved in the
prevention and management of gender based violence
(f) Promote and enhance male participation in reproductive health care
(g) Empower men and women to promote community mobilization towards prevention and management of gender
based violence
(h) Address reproductive health needs of migrant workers
6.9   POLICY  GOAL   9
Ensure that National, Provincial, District and Divisional level managers are responsive and accountable for provision of high
quality MCH services

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
12A
Rationale
Maternal and Child Health services continue to face many challenges from country’s health sector reforms. One
such major reform has been in devolution of powers and functions to the provinces through the 13th Amendment to Sri Lanka
Constitution, in 1987. This has caused changes in implementation of MCH services at sub national levels. Thus functions
related to MCH at provincial levels need to be reviewed, redefined and realigned to produce more effective services.
The success of any health program depends on the commitment of the managers running the programme. In the case
of MCH services the responsibility of implementing a quality MCH programme falls on the Provincial Directors, Regional
Directors of Health services, Hospital Directors, Medical officers MCH and Medical officers of Health. An appropriate
mechanism has to be instituted to make the managers at different levels be more accountable for MCH service provision. In
addition, steps need to be taken to build commitment and improve advocacy skills among MCH programme managers.
The managers at various levels should also be committed to strengthening of institutional capacity for delivery of
quality MCH care that includes improving capacities of its human resources. The health teams who undertake the varied
programmes in MCH should be of appropriate numbers and with the correct skill mix. The diversity of the activities related to
the MCH programmes and the technical advances that have been made in recent times, demand greater specialization
amongst the health teams and therefore, education, training and the development of the correct skill mix is of crucial
importance.
It is imperative that the health personnel involved in MCH programme are constantly provided with the opportunities
needed to update their knowledge and skills through continuing education and other methods. The continuing education
and professional development, as appropriate, has to be linked to career advancement opportunities for the staff.
The on going collaboration with professional bodies, development partners such as WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA and
NGOs and other sectors such as education, social services, child probation has to be strengthened to take advantage of their
underused resources as well as to mobilize additional resources for the programme.
Family Health Bureau with its team of experts would enhance its leadership role in improving MCH knowledge and
practice. This should be supported by effective use of data and field training that need to be continuously monitored and
improved upon.
Strategies
(a) Ensure accountability and committed leadership to provide quality MCH services
(b) Strengthen institutional capacity at National, Provincial, District and Divisional levels to deliver quality MCH
services
(c) Ensure the availability of adequate resources and equitable distribution for quality MCH services
(d) Ensure adherence to national policies, guidelines and practices to improve systems and services at all levels
(e) Strengthen the FHB as the Centre for Excellence to provide national leadership in Maternal and Child Health
(f) Ensure collaboration and partnership with professional bodies and relevant stakeholders
6.10    POLICY   GOAL  10
Ensure effective monitoring and evaluation of MCH programme that would generate quality information to support decision
making.
Rationale
The maintenance of Health Management Information System (HMIS) in MCH/FP is a responsibility of the Family
Health Bureau and is managed by its Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Its aim is to generate quality MCH information and also
to help staff responsible for MCH at national, provincial, district and divisional levels to improve their capacity to collect,
analyze, and use data for planning and evidence based decision making.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
13A
The data gathered and the information generated has grown both in capacity and content. Commencing with data
pertaining to family planning of both Government and NGO sectors, the system has expanded to collect data in the fields of
MCH, maternal mortality, school health and Well Woman Clinic services etc.
The bulk of MCH/FP data received is generated at Primary Health Care level, through the Public Health Midwives
(PHM), Supervising Public Health Midwife (SPHM), Public Health Inspector (PHI), Supervising Public Health Inspector
(SPHI), Public Health Nursing Sister (PHNS) and the Medical Officers of Health (MOH).  The data collected through this
system is analyzed and used at all levels, namely divisional (MOH), regional (RDHS, MOMCH), provincial (PDHS) and
national (FHB) levels. Both quantitative and qualitative indicators are available and health staff at all levels has been trained
in the analysis and interpretation of data. A feedback is provided by the FHB to all concerned, with analyzed data and relevant
information for use by service providers and programme managers.
However, the Health Management Information System of MCH programme needs to be reviewed and improved to
capture information on the current needs. Among the challenges are the irregularities in quality of data, issues on standardization
of criteria and delays in submission of returns, inadequate feedback and inadequate use of information by health staff at
various levels.
Reporting of data from the medical care/curative services, obtained through the hospital network is reported
directly to the Medical Statistical Unit of the Ministry of Health. The quality and completeness of the data reported from
hospitals is however a matter for concern and warrants early attention. The current system of hospital based maternal and
perinatal statistics need a major revision in order to obtain more informative indicators for further reduction of perinatal and
newborn mortality.
The data published by other relevant Departments such as Registrar General’s, Census and Statistics, Central Bank
etc. are also important for MCH programme management. However, a regular mechanism is not available among these
Departments for sharing of relevant important information. As such, establishing a network between the different organizations
within the Ministry of Health and also with other relevant Departments should also be of concern.
Strategies
(a) Strengthen the Health Management Information System on MCH/FP.
(b) Reinforce planning, monitoring and evaluation of MCH program.
(c) Establish a network for MCH information sharing among relevant stakeholders.
6.11   POLICY  GOAL   11
Promote research for policy and practice in Maternal and Child Health
Rationale
Research should function as the “brain” of the MCH services, to enable it to respond effectively to identify the
problems, respond to them and evaluate the quality of service delivery. MCH being an area of work with considerable
behavioral and socio-economic implications, the knowledge needed for successful program implementation has necessarily
to be derived by undertaking national and local level investigations and studies. The decision-making in policy areas as well
as in program areas also should be as best as possible evidence–based.
Among the strategic areas for research that could be considered are those directed at MCH services to underserved
populations, changing roles and functions of MCH staff in keeping with the demographic and epidemiological transitions,
quality of MCH care both at hospital and in the community and on promotion of health of mother and healthy development
of the child.
Some of the essential functions that form the core of a research system for MCH include, capacity development, for
both the demand and supply sides of research, knowledge generation which helps to improve the knowledge base to act and

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
14A
to improve management, the actual utilization and management of knowledge for MCH service improvement and the
mobilization of resources for MCH research.
Strengthening the linkages and functioning of existing and potential networks of institutions and individuals, both
in-country and outside, is another way of promoting MCH research through such networks. Building partnerships with other
research communities will help to get new insights and resources to support innovative research. There is also a need to
establish a continuous process for the promotion and clarification of strategic issues for MCH research and health policies
related to MCH.
Strategies
(a) Generate and disseminate the evidence needed for policy formulation and practices in relation to MCH.
(b) Establish a collaborative mechanism for MCH research development.
6.12   POLICY  GOAL  12
Ensure sustainable conducive behaviours among individuals, families and communities to promote Maternal and Child
Health.
Rationale
Improvement of Maternal and Child Health (MCH) of the communities requires that healthy attitudes and behaviours
are sustained and nurtured continuously. Maintaining current good behaviours conducive to MCH and cultivating desirable
behaviours are required.Good Behaviour Change Communication (BCC) strategies are needed to accomplish this. BCC
strategies need to be strengthened with the participation of relevant experts in  behavioural sciences in collaboration with
MCH experts.  Communities themselves need to be empowered and mobilized to sustain healthy behaviours.
The support of other sectors including civil societies is also essential to meet this goal, as health cannot be
compartmentalized and separated from other sectors working towards the development and well-being of women and children.
The Ministry of Education has to play a key role in developing and maintaining conducive health behavior from childhood.
Mass media support is also of utmost importance in achieving this goal as it has been seen that the media plays a significant
role in influencing health knowledge and practices among the general public. Medical Officer of Health (MOH) programme
managers and service providers should ensure close collaboration with all sectors involved in BCC.
Strategies
(a) Strengthen BCC interventions to improve the MCH programme
(b) Promote mass media support for Maternal and Child Health
(c) Foster community empowerment and mobilization to sustain conducive behaviours in support of MCH
(d) Develop appropriate mechanisms for inter-sectoral co-ordination at all levels to strengthen BCC interventions
in  MCH
7.  POLICY   IMPLEMENTATION
The National Maternal and Child Health Policy upon adoption will serve as the base for development of strategic
and action plans at national, provincial and district levels leading to implementation.
The existing public health and curative care infrastructure with the primary health care staff under the provincial
health administration will serve as the implementing partners of the national MCH policy. In addition, curative health staff
based at different levels of institutions will also be responsible for implementation of respective components. The overall
responsibility of programme management at district and provincial levels is vested with the Provincial and Regional Directors
of Health Services with the technical guidance of the Medical Officers Maternal and Child Health and Consultant Community
Physicians. Implementation of Maternal and Child Health program at field level is done by the Medical Officer of Health  with

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
15A
the team of health staff comprising of PHNS, SPHM, SPHI, PHI and PHM. PHM is the grass root level worker responsible for
delivering Maternal and Child Health services at the door step to the community. Family Health Bureau will provide the policy
directives and technical guidance and national level and will monitor the progress of its implementation. The Professional
bodies such as Sri Lanka College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, College of Paediatricians, College of Pathologists,
College of Community Physicians and Perinatal Society of Sri Lanka will support the policy implementation through technical
guidance and service provision to the national, provincial and district levels.
At national level, several technical committees are formed to support the policy implementation. They are:
1. National Committee on Family Health – under the chairmanship of the Secretary health, with the participation of
Health Ministry officials, Professional bodies, Development partners, representation from Provincial health
staff  and other relevant Ministry officials.
2. Advisory Committee on Maternal Health and Family Planning - Chaired by the Deputy Director General Public
Health Services with participation of Health Ministry officials, Professional bodies, representation from Provincial
Health authorities.
3. Advisory Committee on Newborn and Child Health - Chaired by the Deputy Director General Public Health
Services with participation of Health Ministry officials, Professional bodies, representation from Provincial
Health authorities.
4. National Coordinating Committee on School Health – chaired by the Director General of Health Services with
participation of Health Ministry officials, Education Ministry officials, representation from Provincial Health
authorities, .
5. Advisory Committee on Well woman Clinic Programme / Cervical Cancer Screening Programme – chaired by
Director General of Health Services with participation of Health Ministry officials, Professional bodies and
representation from Provincial Health authorities.
6. Sub Committee on Maternal and Child Nutrition – chaired by the Deputy Director General Public Health
Services with participation of Health Ministry officials, Professional bodies and Development partners.
7. Nutrition Steering Committee – chaired by Secretary Health with participation of Health Ministry officials, other
relevant Ministry officials and development partners.
8. Monitoring Committee of Sri Lanka Code for the Promotion, Protection and support of Breast Feeding and
Marketing of Designated Products – chaired by the Secretary Health with the participation of Health Ministry
officials, other relevant Ministry officials, Professional bodies and Development partners.
These committees meet regularly to discuss policy and technical matters and current issues faced in programme
implementation and decisions will be taken by the committee members to support policy implementation.
According to the Section 5 of the Health Services Act (Act, No. 12 of 1952) the Honorable Minister of Health
shall make regulations in addition to the provision published under the National Policy on Maternal and Child Health of
Sri Lanka based on the future demand and necessities of the concerned sector.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
16A
Maternal and Child Health Policy – Action Plan
Component Maternal Health
Objective: Ensure a safe outcome for both mother and newborn through provision of
quality care during pregnancy, delivery and post  partum period
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Maternal care
strategic plan
available and
used  for
planning
purposes
2. Availability of
uniform, updated
evidence based
technical
guidance and
direction to
improve
Maternal Care
3. Availability and
adherence to
uniform,
updated,
evidence based
technical
guidance on EOC
and EmOC
1. Develop national
strategic plan, annual
operational plan on
maternal care
2. Provinces and districts
to develop their
operational plans
based on the national
strategic plan
3. Establish a technical
Advisory committee
on Maternal health
and function  regularly
1. Develop protocols and
guidelines on maternal
care based on
internationally
accepted  current
evidences
2. Develop and
disseminate
Management
protocols and
guidelines on ten
leading maternal
morbidities
1. EOC, and EmOC
guidelines and
protocols developed
and disseminated
2. Establish women
friendly intra natal
care including  pain
relief and positive
birth care practices
Availability of
National Strategic
plan
Availability of
district operational
plans
No. of meeting of
Technical
Advisory
Committee on
Maternal Health in
year
Availability of a
pilot tested
evidence based
maternal care
service delivery
package
Availability of
protocols’
Availability of
EOC and EmOC
guidelines and
protocols
% of women
received pain relief
during delivery
% of women who
had birth companion
at delivery
Zero
Adhoc
 Zero
Adhoc
Few
Few,
adhoc
Data
not
available
Available by
end 2012
Availability by
2013
Meetings held
once in two
months
Available and
implement in
all districts by
2013
Availability of
10 protocols
by 2013
Guidelines and
protocols
available by
2013
50% women
delivered by 2013
75% of women
delivered by
2013
MoH, Family
Health Bureau
FHB &
Provincial
Health
authorities
MoH, FHB
FHB, SLCOG
FHB, SLCOG
FHB, SLCOG
FHB, SLCOG
WHO,
SLCOG
SLCOG
SLCOG
WHO,
UNICEF,
UNFPA,
Provincial
authorities
WHO,
UNFPA,
UNICEF
WHO,
UNFPA,
UNICEF
WHO,
UNFPA
Provincial
Health
authorities/
WHO/UNICEF/
UNFPA

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
17A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
4. Strengthen
supportive
services
(laboratory,
radiology, blood
transfusion, high
dependency and
intensive care) to
improve maternal
care
5. Logistics
Management
System (LMIS)
for maternal care
and supportive
services
established
3. Practice universal
precautions for
BOC, EOC and
EmOC
4. Develop a model
system for effective
management of
medical diseases
complicating
pregnancy
5. Establish high
dependency units
(HDU)   in obstetric
units
6. 24 hour functioning
EmNOC  facilities
established as per
norm
1. Develop norms for
supportive care
services
2. Establish supportive
services to provide
basic, essential and
emergency maternal
care services
1. Establish LMIS for
maternal care and
function on annual
basis
% of institutions
practiced standard
universal
precautions
No. of
management
protocols for
effective
management of
medical diseases
complicating
pregnancies
available
% of hospitals
with specialised
care having  HDU
% of hospitals
with specialised
care having 24/7
blood transfusion
services
% of hospitals
with specialised
care having 24/7
laboratory
services
Availability of
norms for
supportive
services
% of institutions
equipped with
supportive
services according
to norms
Availability of the
system
% of institutions
with stock outs of
essential items
Data
not
available
Zero
DNA
DNA
Zero
DNA
Zero
100% of
institutions by
2013
Protocols
available by
2013
100% CEmOC
facilities to have
HDUs
100% in
CEmOC
institutions by
2013
Available by
2013
25% by 2013
System
established by
2013
75% of
institutions with
adequate stocks
FHB, SLCOG
FHB, SLCOG SL
College of
Physicians
FHB, SLCOG
Heads of
institutions
MoH, FHB
MoH, FHB
Professional
bodies
MoH,
FHBProvincial
Health authorities
MoH,
FHB,Provincial
Health authorities
Provincial
Health
authorities/
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA
Provincial
Health
authorities/
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA
UNFPA,
WHO
SLCOG/
UNFPA,
UNICEF,
WHO
Provincial
health
authorities/
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA/
Professional
bodies
 WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA/
Professional
bodies

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
18A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
6. A functioning
quality
assurance
system for
maternal care
established
7. Nutritional
status of
pregnant and
lactating women
improved
8. Improved
Behaviour
Change
Communication
(BCC)
interventions in
maternal care
9. An effective
referral system
for maternal
care
 established and
implemented
1. Standards developed
on quality of
maternal care
2. Establish an effective
quality assurance
system for Maternal
Care
3. Build capacity of all
maternal care service
providers through
pre service and
in-service training
programmes
4. Maternal care quality
indicators introduced
into routine MIS for
monitoring
1. Implement
appropriate
interventions to
improve  nutritional
status of all pre-
pregnant, pregnant
and lactating women
1. Implement
awareness programs
for expecting couples
1. Develop specific
criteria and guidelines
for emergency
transfers and
established the
system
2. Create public
awareness  to
minimize delays in
seeking appropriate
maternal  care
Availability of
standards on
maternal care
Availability of
Accreditation
system  for
maternal care
service  delivery
points
% of health staff
trained in quality
assurance
Availability of
quality indicators
in the RH MIS
% of mothers
BMI less than
18.5
% of mothers
gained adequate
weight during
pregnancy
according to  BMI
% of pregnant
women with
Hb < 11g/dl
% of pregnant
women  attended
to 3 parent
crafting classes
during  pregnancy
Availability of
guidelines on
emergency
obstetric transfers
Proportion of
maternal deaths
due to 1
st delay
 Adhoc
Zero
DNA
A few
24% in
2009
Adhoc
Adhoc
Availability of
the standards
by 2013
50% of
institutions to
be accredited by
2013
50% coverage
by 2013
100% coverage
by 2013
20% by 2013
50%  mothers
to gain adequate
weight by 2013
15% by 2013
80% by 2013
Availability of
the guidelines
by 2013
andImplement
in 50% of
districts by
2013
Reduce
proportion of
1
st delay by
25% by 2013
MoH, FHB,
Professional
bodies
MoH, FHB
Professional
bodies
MoH, FHB
Professional
bodies,
Provincial
Health
authorities
FHB/ Hospitals
FHB and
Provincial
Health
authorities
HEB, FHB and
Provincial
Health
authorities
FHB and
Provincial
Health
authorities
FHB and
Provincial
Health
authorities,
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA
Provincial
Health
authorities/
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA/
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNICEF/
UNFPA
Community
groups
Community
groups

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
19A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
10. Improved
availability and
accessibility of
quality
maternal care
services to
special target
groups
11. Maternal
Mortality and
Morbidity
Surveillance
System is re-
oriented and
implemented
successfully
1. Strengthen MCH
service delivery in
the estate sector
and resettlements
1. Conduct national
Maternal mortality
reviews timely
2. Strengthen linkages
with Registrar
General’s Dept./
Medical Statistics
unit on Maternal
Mortality data base
3. Develop and
implement a
comprehensive
Maternal Mortality
Database and
published data
annually
4. Establish a
confidential
enquiry into
maternal deaths
surveillance system
(CEMD)
5. Establish an
Institution-based
Maternal
Morbidity
Surveillance
system
6. Strengthen existing
field surveillance
system on maternal
morbidity
% of skilled birth
attendance in the
estate sector and
resettled areas
No. of BEmOC
facilities in
resettlement areas
% of health regions
conducted
NMMRs
Availability of a
mechanism to link
data
Availability of
database
Annual report
published
Availability of
CEMD
Availability of
survelliance
system on severe
Maternal
Morbidity (near-
miss inquiry)
%  of MOH areas
with accepted
levels of reporting
95% by 2013
100% by 2011 -
2013
No. of maternal
deaths reported
from other
sectors
Available by
2013
No, of cases
reviewed
through CEMD
Pilot tested in
10 Health care
institutes
60% MOH
areas with
accepted levels
of reporting
SLCOG
FHB, Plantation
Trust, Provincial
staff
FHB/ MoH,
Provincial Staff,
SLCOG ,
RGs Dept,
MoH, FHB
FHB
FHB, SLCOG
FHB/SLCOG
FHB/Provincial
Health staff
UNICEF,
UNFPA,
SLCOG
UNICEF
SLCOG
UNICEF/
WHO
WHO/
UNICEF
WHO
80%
75%
Zero
50%
Zero
Zero
Zero
30%
8 - G 16112

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
20A
Component Newborn Health
Objective: Ensure reduction of perinatal and  neonatal morbidity and mortality through
provision of quality care
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Policy guidance
and direction to
the Newborn
Care programme
in place
1. Develop and make
available a National
MCH/FP policy
encompassing all
components of the
newborn care
programme
2. Advocate and create
awareness on the
newborn care
program to
parliamentarians,
policy makers,
central and
provincial
administrators,
service providers,
development
partners, all other
stakeholders and
public
3. Develop, implement
and monitor a five
year strategic plan,
annual operational
plan on newborn
care based on the
policy
4. Facilitate, coordinate
and guide the
provinces and
districts to develop
their operational
plans based on the
MCH/FP policy
5. Establish and regular
functioning of
Technical Advisory
Committee (TAC)
on Newborn care
National Policy on
MCH/FP
including all the
components of the
newborn health
available
No. of awareness
programs
conducted
National Strategic
plan on Maternal
and Newborn
Health
Operational plans
in par with the
National MNH
strategy
Availability of
operational  plans
in par with the
National Policy
and MNH
strategic plan at
Provincial,
district and
divisional levels
Availability of a
effectively
functioning
Technical Advisory
Committee on
Newborn Health
Draft
NA
NA
Adhoc
On-
going
Available by
2012
Ongoing
programme
2012-2016
Available by
2012
Available from
2012-2016
Annually from
2012-2016
Conduct regular
meetings
(6 annually
2012-2016)
FHB
FHB, MoH
FHB
FHB
FHB
DDG(PHS)
Professonal
bodies
MoH
Development
partners
WHO, MOH
Professional
Bodies
Provincial
staff
Professional
bodies,
Committee
members

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
21A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
2.Uniform, updated
evidence based
technical
guidance and
direction
available to
improve neonatal
care
3. A comprehensive
quality
assurance
system for
newborn care in
place
4. Quality 
essential care
available to all
newborns at
institutional and
field levels
1. Incorporate current
evidences in to the
Newborn Heath
Programme on a
regular basis
2. Update existing
circulars, guidelines
and protocols and
develop new ones
based on current
evidence, to
disseminate them
3. Develop and
introduce evidence
based essential and
advanced newborn
care service
delivery packages
1. Establish an inbuilt
system for regular
monitoring of the
quality of care
2. Train all neonatal
care providers
through pre service
and in service
training
programmes to
ensure quality
service provision
3. Newborn care
quality indicators
introduced into the
MIS and monitor
them
1. Develop Essential
Newborn Care
package
2. Introduce Essential
Newborn Care
package
No. of evidences
incorporated
Circulars,
guidelines and
protocols updated
once in two years
Availability of a
evidence based
newborn care
service delivery
package
Availability of
Newborn Care
standards
% of staff trained
No. of indicators
in use
Availability of
ENC package
% of institutions
introduced with
ENC package
% of MOH areas
introduced with
the community
ENC package
A few
A few
Adhoc
Draft
stage
DNA
NA
Draft
Draft
Available and
implement in all
districts by
2013
Update once in
two years
2012-2016
Available by
2012
Implement in all
districts by
2013
Regular
monitoring
established by
2013
90% by2013
Completed by
2015
Develop ENC
package by
2012
90% of
institutions by
2013
90% by 2015
FHB
FHB, SLCCP
FHB
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
SLCCP , WHO
UNICEF
Provincial
Staff
WHO,
Provincial
Staff
WHO,
UNFPA
WHO,
Proviincial
Staff
WHO,
UNICEF
WHO,
UNICEF
WHO,
UNICEF

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
22A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
5. Improved
quality services
for  high risk
newborn
Availability of
Newborn Standards
% of institutions
following newborn
standards
% of institutions
following high risk
newborn care
standards
Availability of
guidelines and
protocols to
manage high risk
and sick newborn
% of institutions
using guidelines and
protocols to
manage high risk
and sick newborns
% of deaths due to
high risk conditions
like asphyxia,
septicaemia
Availability of
management
guidelines and
protocols for
resuscitation,
ventilation
newborns
% of institutions
using management
guidelines and
protocols for
resuscitation and
ventilation
3. Develop standards
for Essential
Newborn Care
4. Implement
standards for
Essential Newborn
Care
1. Develop and
implement
standards for high
risk newboran care
2. Develop guidelines
and protocols to
manage high risk
(premature, LBW,
IUGR, congenital
abnormalities etc.)
and sick newborns
(septicaemia,
jaundice etc.)
3. Implement
guidelines and
protocols to manage
the above high risk
and sick newborns
4. Develop
management
guidelines and
protocols for
resuscitation,
ventilation
newborns
5. Implement
management
guidelines and
protocols for
resuscitation and
ventilation
Draft
Nil
Nil
Adhoc
Nil
NA
NA
Complete  by
2012
90%
institutions
following
newborn
standards by
2015
90%
institutions
following
standards for
high risk new
born by 2015
Available by
2012
90% of the
institutions
using guidelines
and protocols
to manage high
risk and sick
newborns by
2015
Available by
2013
90% of the
institutions
using guidelines
and protocols
for
resuscitation
and ventilation
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
WHO,
UNICEF
WHO,
UNICEF
WHO,
UNICEF
WHO,
UNICEF
WHO
UNICEF
UNFPA
WHO
UNICEF
UNFPA
WHO
UNICEF
UNFPA

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
23A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
6. Improved care
for newborns
through
capacity
building on
knowledge,
skills and
competencies of
health staff on
essential and
advanced
newborn care
6. Establish Kangaroo
Mother Care at the
centres providing
specialised care and
in the domiciliary
setting
1. Train institutional
staff on Essential
Newborn Care
based on the
adapted WHO
training module to
all institutions
providing
maternity care
2. Train field staff to
provide essential/
routine newborn
care in the
domiciliary setting.
3. Train field staff to
support the
mothers in
domiciliary care of
the newborns who
are discharged
following special/
intensive care
4. Train staff in
Neonatal Intensive
Care Units (NICU)
and Special Care
Baby Units
(SCBU) regularly
in-service on
advanced newborn
care
% of newborns
successfully
resuscitated
% of SCBU
admissions due to
asphyxia
% of institutions
practicing KMC
% of LBW babies
discharged on
KMC
% of staff trained
in institutions
providing
maternity care
with ENCC
% of staff in the
institutions
practicing proper
hand washing
% of institutions
practicing the new
concepts of ENC
% of field staff
trained in essential/
routine newborn
care in the
domiciliary setting
% of field staff
trained in
domiciliary care of
the newborns who
are discharged
following special/
intensive care
% of staff in
NICU and SCBU
trained regularly
on NALS
% Neonatal deaths
due to asphyxia
% Neonatal
admissions to
NICU and SCBU
due to asphyxia
A few
DNA
DNA
DNA
30%
DNA
100% by 2012
100% by 2013
100% by 2013
100% by 2013
100% by 2015
100% by 2015
100% by 2015
5% by 2015
10% by 2015
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB, SLCCP
FHB
FHB
WHO
UNICEF
UNFPA
WHO
UNICEF/
UNFPA
Institutional
staff
WHO
UNICEF
UNFPA
Provincial
staff
WHO
UNICEF
UNFPA
Provincial
staff
WHO
UNICEF
UNFPA
Institutional
staff
9 - G 16112

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
24A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
5.Assessment of in
service skills of the
health personnel
working in
newborn care and
improve skills
6. Incorporate new
concepts of
newborn care
provision into the
basic midwifery,
nursing, post basic
nursing,
undergraduate
medical and
postgraduate
medical curricula
7. Provide standard
facilities at
newborn corners
(in Labour Room
and Operating
Theatre) in
institutions
providing
maternity care
8. Provide standard
facilities at
neonatal
stabilization units
in institutions
providing
maternity care
9. Provide standard
care at Special
Care Baby Units/
Neonatal Intensive
Care Units in all
the institutions
10. Establish at least
one functioning
Neonatal Intensive
Care Unit in each
district with all
facilities
% of health staff
has skills to
resuscitate
newborns
% of institutions
that conduct
regular drills on
NALS
No. of basic
medical and related
course
incorporated with
new concepts of
newborn care
% of institutions
with standard
facilities in the
newborn corners
% of institutions
with standard
facilities in
neonatal
stabilization units
% of specialised
institutions with
standard facilities
in the SCBU/NICU
No. of districts
that have at least
one Neonatal
Intensive Care
Unit
Few
A few
DNA
DNA
DNA
90%
90% by 2015
90% by 2015
100% by 2015
100% by 2012
100% by 2012
100% by 2015
100% by 2015
FHB, Heads of
Institutions
DDG (ETR),
Deans of
Medical
Faculties,  PGIM
FHB
DDG (MSD)
DDG (MSD)
DDG (MSD),
PDHS, Heads of
Institutions
DDG (BME),
D(MSD),
WHO,
UNICEF
PDHS, Heads
of
Institutions
UNFPA/
UNICEF
PDHS, Heads
of
Institutions
UNFPA/
UNICEF
Government/
UNFPA/SDF/
UNICEF
PDHS, Heads
of Institutions
UNICEF

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
25A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
11. Establish Mother
baby centres with
standard facilities in
all institutions
providing
specialised care
12. Establish lactation
management centres
with standard
facilities in all
institutions
providing
specialised care
13. Implement a
functional referral
system for
specialized care
with clear
catchments areas
14. Conduct regular
needs assessment
for essential and
advanced newborn
care facilities in
institutions
1. Implement the
Baby Friendly
Hospital Initiative
2. Train all staff in
maternity and
newborn care units
in the institutions in
the 20 hour WHO/
UNICEF Baby
Friendly Hospital
Initiative training
course
3. Establish a system
for internal and
external assessment
and accreditation
4. Ensure regular
functioning of the
formal BFHI
implementation and
monitoring
committee
 % of specialised
institutions with
standard facilities
in the Mother
Baby Centers
% of specialised
institutions with
standard facilities
in the Lactation
Management
Centers
No. of provinces
with a functioning
referral system
% of institutions
in which needs
assessment is
conducted
annually
BFHI strategy
developed
% of staff trained
in the 20hr
revised course on
BFHI
No. of
institutions
accredited as
BFHI
Regular meetings
of the BFHI
implementing
committee held
50%
50%
None
None
Draft
5%
None
Regular
100% by 2013
100% by 2013
All provinces
by 2013
100% by 2012
Completed by
2011
90% by 2013
60% by 2013
100% by
2012- 2016
DDG (BME),
D(MSD),
DDG (BME),
D(MSD),
PDHS, FHB
FHB
DDG(PHS),
FHB
FHB
FHB
Secretary
Health,
DGHS,DDG
(PHS)
PDHS, Head
of Institutions
UNICEF
PDHS, Heads
of Institutions
UNICEF/
UNFPA
SLCCP
PDHS, Heads
of Institutions
Heads of
Institutions
WHO/
UNICEF
RDHS, Heads
of Institutions
WHO/
UNICEF
RDHS, Heads
of Institutions
WHO/
UNICEF
Committe
Members
7. Effective
Implementation
of the Baby
Friendly
Hospital
Initiative

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
26A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
5. Monitor the Sri
Lanka code for
promotion,
protection and
support of
breastfeeding and
marketing of
designated
products in
collaboration with
Infant and Young
Child Feeding
(IYCF) Programme
1. Introduce and
ensure utilization
of newborn
formats  in all
institutions
providing care for
the newborns
2. Improve coverage ,
quality and
timeliness of
Hospital
Maternity and
Newborn statistics
return (H 830)
3. Establish a linkage
with the vital
registration system
to share
information
4. Use GIS package
to monitor
newborn care
facilities and
outcomes up to
institutional level
5. Periodically
publish a report on
neonatal morbidity
and mortality.
Regular conduction
of monitoring
committee meetings
(once in two
month)
No. of violations
reported
% of reported
violations to which
action is taken
% of institutions
using newborn
formats
% of institutions
sending H 830
return
Availability of the
system
% of institutions
covered by the GIS
mapping
No. of periodicals
published
Regular
60%
NA
None
None
2012-2016 All
meetings are
conduced
regularly
100% by 2012
2012 -2016
100% by 2013
2012 -2016
By 2013
100% by 2015
Annually one
report
2012 -2016
Secretary Health,
DGHS,
DDG(PHS), FHB
FHB , SLCCP
FHB, MSU,
SLCCP
FHB RGs Dept.
FHB, MSU
FHB
Attorney
Generals
Dept.,
Ministry of
Consumer
Affairs
RDHS, Head
of Institutions
PDHS,
RDHS, Head
of Institutions
Director/
Information
Government/
WHO/
UNICEF
UNICEF
8. Well
implemented
neonatal
information
system

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
27A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Conduct newborn
care research with
other relevant
partners.
2. Pilot test
interventions on
newborn care and
analyse the cost
effectiveness and
sustainability
3. Work with
government, non
governmental and
private sector
authorities for
development of
Newborn Care
Services (eg: Labour
Department,
Ministry of Women
and Child
Development,
Social services etc.).
1. Upgrade intranasal
and newborn care
unit of the FHB
2. Strengthen technical
and managerial
capacity of  the
NBH  programme
managers
3. Establish a NBH
Programme
monitoring and
coordination
mechanism with the
central ,provincial,
district health
authorities,
plantation sector,
local government,
private  sector
authorities etc.
Areas researched
% of interventions
costed
No. of meetings
held
Facilities for
provision of
quality services
available at the
unit
No. of
programmes
attended by the
programme
manager
Monitoring and
coordinating
mechanism
established
Few
None
Few
60%
Initiated
2012-2016
90% by 2015
75% by 2015
Up graded by
2013
2012- 2016
2014
FHB
FHB, Director/
Finance
FHB
FHB
FHB, DDG/
(PHS II)
FHB /MoH
SLCCP
WHO,
UNICEF/
UNFPA
Government
Other
relevant
Ministries
WHO/
UNICEF
UNICEF/
UNFPA
9. Evidence based
information on
newborn care
established
10. Newborn Care
Unit of the
Family Health
Bureau
strengthened
for effective
implementation
and monitoring
of the newborn
care
programme

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
28A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
4. Develop annual
operational plans
(with costing) in
collaboration with
provincial and
district authorities
5. Develop web 
based system to
share information
to provide
guidance and
directions to
newborn care
stakeholders
No. of districts
supported to
develop the
district plans
Development of
the website
5%
Under
develop-
ment
2012- 2016
2012- 2016
FHB /MoH
SLCCP
FHB
PDHS/RDHS
GA VI-HSS,
UNICEF
Component Child  Health
Objective: Enable all children under five years of age to survive and reach their full
potential for growth and development through provision of optimal care
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. High quality
infant and child
care services
made available
both at field
and
institutional
settings
1. Develop policy
and strategic plan
on child health
2. Develop relevant
protocols and
guidelines in Child
Health
3. Supply necessary
equipment and
other supplies to
all institutions
(including field)
Availability of
policy and
strategic plan on
child health
No. of protocols
and guidelines
available
% of MOH areas
with standard set
of equipment
National
MCH policy
IYCFguideline,
Managing
malnutrition
in community,
Vit. A
supplementation,
feeding during
emergency,
MMN
supplementation
DNA
Policy and
strategic plan
available by
2013
All available by
2013
80% by 2013
FHB
FHB
FHB
UNICEF/
WHO/College
of
Paediatricians
College of
Paediatricians
UNICEF/
WHO
Provincial
authorities,
UNICEF

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
29A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
2. Optimal
nutritional
status achieved
by all children
1. Development of a
national strategic
plan on Infant
and Young Child
Feeding
2. Regular
monitoring of
growth of all
under five
children
3. Improve
nutritional status
of children under
five years  by
promoting
appropriate IYCF
practices
4. Capacity building
of health staff on
child health
-Infant and Young
Child Feeding
- Growth
Monitoring
5. Supplement all
children under
five years with
age appropriate
Vit A.
1. Develop
management
protocols for
common
childhood
illnesses
Availability of
the strategic plan
% of children <5
yrs whose
growth is
monitored
regularly
Prevalence of
underweight
among under 5
children
Prevalence of
wasting among
under 5 children
Prevalence of
stunting among
under 5 children
Prevalence of
Iron deficiency
anaemia among
under 5 children
Prevalence of
vitamin A
deficiency among
under 5 children
% of districts
with trained
trainers
 - Infant and
Young Child
Feeding
-  Growth
Monitoring
% of target
population
covered
% of children<5
yrs. with Vit A
deficiency
Availability of
protocols
NA
80%
21.1%
14.7%
17.3%
(DHS
2006/7)
25. 2%
NFSA 2009
29.3% MRI
2006
End 2011
77%
15%
66% MRI
2006
29.3% MRI
2006
Adhoc
Strategic plan
available by
2013
100% by 2012
19.0 % by 2013
13.5% by 2013
16.5 % by 2013
20.0% by 2013
20.0% by 2013
100 % by 2013
50% by 2013
80% by 2013
Vit A deficiency
reduced to 20%
by 2015
Protocols on 10
disease entities
developed by
2013
FHB
FHB
FHB
FHB
FHB
FHB, SLCP
Other
relevant
Directorates,
UNICEF,
WHO
Provincial
staff
UNICEF/
WHO
GOSL
Provincial
Health staff
UNICEF/
WHO
Provincial
Health staff
UNICEF
WHO
 3. Evidencebased
practices in  place
for management
of common
childhood
illnesses

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
30A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
4. Surveillance
system on
childhood
morbidity and
mortality
developed
5. Optimized
psychosocial
development
2. Integrate
management
protocols into
different levels of
medical curricula
3. Capacity building
of primary care
physicians
1. Establish a
reporting system
on child mortality
2. Develop a child
mortality
database
3. Conduct a Birth
cohort study
1. Adopt Early
Childhood Care
and Development
manual
2. Develop ECD
standards
3. Audit and revamp
the ECD
programme
4. Train local
programme
implementers in
all districts on
ECD
5. Incorporate ECD
training in to the
pre-service
training
programmes
No. of
institutes with
relevant
curricula
No. of staff
trained
% of deaths
reported
through the
system
Availability of
data base
Report
available
Manual is
developed in
both Sinhala
and Tamil
languages.
Report
available
Proportion of
mothers who
has awareness
on ECD
Proportion of
PHC workers
trained on ECD
No. of curricula
with ECD
component
incorporated
(PHMS,
PHNS, MOs)
DNA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Adhoc
DNA
Adhoc
80% of
institutes with
revised curricula
100 physicians
trained
50% by 2013
Available by
2012
By 2013
By 2012
By Q1 2012
75% by 2013
100% by 2015
All main
curricula
included ECD
By 2015
FHB, SLCP
FHB, Medical
Statistics Unit
FHB, RG’s
Dept.
FHB
FHB, College of
Psychiatrists&
Paediatricians,
Child Secretariat
FHB, College of
Psychiatrists&
Paediatricians,
Child Secretariat
FHB, Child
Secretariat,
Ministry of
Health,
Ministry of
Child
Development&
Women’s
Empowerment
FHB, College of
Psychiatrists&
Paediatricians,
Child Secretariat
FHB, College of
Psychiatrists&
Paediatricians,
Child Secretariat
WHO
WHO
UNICEF/
WHO,
SLCCP
UNICEF/
WHO,
SLCCP
UNICEF
WHO, NGO,
CBOs
UNICEF
Provincial
Health &
ECCD
officers,
UNICEF
Provincial
Health staff,
UNICEF
DDG/ET &R,
NIHS

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
31A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Develop
guidelines &
strategic plan to
introduce essential
preventive,
curative &
rehabilitative oral
health care
components to
existing infant &
child care services
2. Print guidelines (2
Booklet Dental
Professionals &
PHC staff)
3. Improve capacity
of PHC staff to
identify and
provide basic
preventive oral
health care
4. Improve capacity
of dental
workforce to
identify and
provide basic
preventive
curative &
rehabilitative oral
health care on
developed
guidelines
5. Strengthen
monitoring &
evaluation system
Strategic plan
& guidelines
available
Strategic plan &
guidelines
printed
No. of PHC
staff trained
No. of staff DS
& SDTT trained
% of infants
with good
oral health
practices
% of infants
with caries
%
preschoolers
with caries
Guidelines
available by
2012
Guidelines
available in
printed format
by 2012
100% by
2013
25% trained by
the end of
2012, 100% by
2013
Increase by
75% from the
present level by
2013
100% by 2015
Reduction 50%
from the
present level
(23% to 12 %)
by 2015
Reduced by
50% (from 68%
to 34%) by
2015
FHB, DDG/
Dental services
FHB, DDG/
Dental services
FHB,
FHB
FHB, DDG/
Dental services
Provincial
Health Staff
Provincial
Health Staff
Provincial
Health Staff
6. Optimal oral
health ensured
in all children
Adhoc
Adhoc
10 - G 16112

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
32A
   Component Children  with special needs
Objective: Enable children with special needs to optimally develop their mental, physical and
social capacities to function as productive members of society
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Address the
health needs of
children with
special needs
by
incorporating a
package of
intervention to
existing child
health program
1. Pilot project on
special need is
completed
2. Special need
programme  is
expanded in 5
districts
Presence of
pilot programme
in the MOH
areas of
Puttalam
Districts
By 2012
In 5/25
districts by
2015
Nil
Nil
FHB
FHB
WHO
WHO
Component School  and Adolescent  Health
Objective: Ensure that children aged 5 to 9 years and adolescents realize their full potential in
growth and development in a conductive and resourceful physical and psychosocial
environment
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Partnerships
between
Ministries of
Health and
Education, other
relevant
stakeholders and
communities are
strengthened for
the
implementation of
a comprehensive
child and
adolescent health
programme in
school and
community
settings
1. Establishment of
Provincial and
Zonal Steering
Committees
2. Performed regular
meetings  with all
the stakeholders at
National level
coordinating
committee
Number of
provinces and
having
committees
Number of
meetings held
committees
No data
5 meetings
per year
Coordination
committee
members
Development
partners
Coordination
committee
members
Development
partners
Ministry of
Health,
Ministry of
Education,
FHB
FHB D/Health
& Nutrition in
Ministry of
Education
By the year
2015 all the
provinces
conducting
one steering
committee
meeting per
school term
5 meetings per
year
Available of
special need
programme in 5
districts

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
33A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
2. Need based
health education,
focusing on skill
development is
implemented
3. Nutrition is
improved  and
healthy
lifestyles are in
practice  among
school children
and adolescents
4. Increased access
to child and
adolescent
friendly health
services,
including dental
services and
counselling
1. Conduct training
programs for health
& education
officials on
teaching life skills
2. Programs for
school children on
life skills
development
1. Encourage school
children to engage
in routine exercise/
physical activity
2. Establishing Health
promoting school
program
3. Growth monitoring
& nutrition
education for
school children
1. Establishment of
adolescent friendly
Services in all
MOH areas
2. School Medical
Inspection
3. Establishment of
counselling services
for adolescents
% of Health &
Education
officers trained
in life skill
development
% of school
children with
adequate life
skills
% of school
children doing
exercise>1 hr
% of schools
identified as
Health
Promoting
Schools
% of adolescent
school children
having optimal
BMI
Number of
adolescent
friendly centres
per MOH area
SMI coverage
% of schools
having
counselling
services
All the
district teams
have been
formulated
65% of school
children have
adequate life
skills
(UNICEF,
2004)
11%
(GSHS,2008)
20%
65% of male
& 75% of
female school
children have
optimum
BMI (2010)
No data
85% in 2009
No data
By the year
2015, 75% of
field health
workers and
50% of
secondary
school teachers
trained in life
skill
development
By the year
2015 the % of
children with
adequate life
skills increased
to 75%
 By the year of
2015 the
children do
exercise
increases to 25%
% of Health
Promoting
school increased
from 20% to
60% by 2015
68% of male &
77% of female
school children
have optimum
BMI in 2015
By the year
2015 at least one
referral centre  at
MOH office
90% in 2015
75% in 2015
FHB, Provincial
Health and
Educational
Authorities
Provincial
Health and
Educational
authorities
Ministry of
Health, Ministry
of Education,
FHB
Ministry of
Health, Ministry
of Education,
FHB
Ministry of
Health, Ministry
of Education,
FHB
Ministry of
Health, Ministry
of Education,
FHB
Provincial
Health &
Education
authorities
Provincial
Health &
Education
authorities
Health
Education
Bureau
Development
partners
Health
Education
Bureau
Development
partners
Health
Education
Bureau
Health
Education
Bureau
Development
partners
Health
Education
Bureau
D/Nutrition
D/YEDD
Health
Education
Bureau
Epidemiology
Unit

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
34A
Component Family  Planning
Objective: Enable all couples to have a desired number of children with optimal spacing whilst
preventing unintended pregnancies
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Increased
Contraceptive
prevalence for
modern
temporary
methods
1. Develop and print
guidelines on
DMPA, OCP, IUD
and sterilization
2. Build capacity of
Health staff on
Family planning
No. of printed
guidelines
available
No. of training
programmes
conducted
Guidelines
on DMPA,
OCP , IUD
available
16 programs
annually
Sterilization
guideline will
be available by
2012
16 programs
annually
FHB,SLCOG
FHB
UNFPA
Provincial
Health staff,
UNFPA
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
5. Children and
adolescents are
empowered to
make informed
choices
regarding their
sexual and
reproductive
health issues.
6. Parents,
guardians and
teachers are
empowered in
caring for
children and
adolescents.
1. Conduct training
programs for health
& education
officials on SRH
education
2. Programs for
school & out of
school adolescent
children on SRH
education
1. Conduct parental
programs to
improve parent
adolescent
connectedness
2. Conduct training
programs for health
& education
officials on
parenting and
caring for
adolescents
% field health
officials and
secondary
school teachers
trained in SRH
education
% of children
with adequate
knowledge on
RH
% of  MOH
conducting
parenting
programs
% field health
officials and
secondary
school teachers
trained on
Parenting
All the
district teams
have been
formulated
50%  school
children have
adequate
knowledge
(UNICEF,
2004)
No data
No data
By the year
2015, 75% of
field health
workers and
50% of
secondary
school teachers
trained
By the year
2015, % of
school children
with adequate
RH knowledge
will be increased
to 60%
By the year
2015 50% of
MOH are
conducting
parenting
programs
By the year
2015, 60% of
field health
workers and
40% of
secondary
school teachers
trained
FHB Provincial
Health and
Educational
authorities
Ministry of
Health,
Ministry of
Education, FHB
Ministry of
Health,
Ministry of
Education, FHB
Ministry of
Health,
Ministry of
Education, FHB
D/YEDD
Health
Education
Bureau
Development
partners
Health
Education
Bureau
Development
partners
D/YEDD
Health
Education
Bureau
Development
partners
Health
Education
Bureau
Development
partners

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
35A
2. Decreased
unmet need
for
contraception
3. Increased
prevalence of
permanent
methods
3. Increase
accessibility to FP
services by
establishing new
FP clinics
(registered &
equipment
provided)
4. Improve FP
services provision
in the field by
PHMM and PHII
1. Identify and
provide services
for couples with
unmet need for
Family Planning
2. Strengthen FP
services for newly
married couples
who need
postponement
1. Provide
sterilization
services in all
specialized
hospitals
No. of new
clinics registered
annually
No. of clinics
provided with
equipment
No. of FP clinics
functioning
% of FP clinics
providing
method mix
% Contraceptive
prevalence
(modern
methods)
% of OCP &
Condoms
distributed by
PHMM/ PHII
% Unmet
need for
contraception
% Teenage
pregnanciesc
%
Pregnancies
among  > P5
No. of
maternal
deaths due to
septic
abortions
% of  > P5
mothers who
underwent
sterilization
by Medical
Officer of
Health area
% prevalence
of permanent
methods
12
1888
70%
52%
45%
7.3 %
7%
2%
10
Data not
available
17%
Provincial
Health staff,
UNFPA
Provincial
Health staff
UNFPA
Provincial
Health staff
UNFPA
Provincial
Health staff
UNFPA,
NGOs
Provincial
Health staff
Ministry of
Education
and Youth
affairs
UNFPA
Provincial
Health staff
All curative
institutions
World Bank
UNFPA
FHB
FHB
FHB/ SLCOG
FHB/ SLCOG
FHB
FHB/ SLCOG
FHB
FHB
FHB
FHB, SLCOG ,
Ministry  of
Health
50 per year
2000 by 2013
100%
58% by 2013
50%
<8% by 2013
<7% by 2013
<1% by 2013
0
>90%
20%
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
36A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
2. Increase
allocation  for
procurement of
contraceptives
from the national
budget
2. Build capacity of
staff involved in
Logistics
Management
3. Prepare RHCS
plan for Sri
Lanka
% of
contraceptives
procured from
annual
requirement
No. of training
programmes for
store Keepers of
Regional Medical
Supplies
Divisions
(RMSD)
Availability of a
RHCS plan
90%
3 per year
Draft
100
3 per year
By end 2012
FHB, Treasury
FHB
FHB/UNFPA
UNFPA
UNFPA
4. Improved
logistics
management of
contraceptives
at all levels
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
Component Women's Health
Objective: Promote health of women and their partners to enter pregnancy in optimal health,
and to maintain in throughout the life course
1. Women of
childbearing age
and their
partners receive
a comprehensive
package of pre-
conception care.
2. Most
reproductive
health issues of
women and their
partners are
attended
throughout the
life course
1. Capacity building
of staff on pre -
pregnancy care
2. Implement Pre-
conception care
package for newly
married couples
1. Establish Well
Woman Clinics in
all MOH areas per
15,000 population
2. Increase the
coverage of
women at 35 yrs.
undergone Cervical
Cancer screening
% of staff
trained
% of MOH
areas
implemented
Average
population
served by a
WWC in a
district
% of the target
population
screened by
district
Zero
Zero
30%
10%
50% of staff by
2012
75% by 2013
75% of MOH
areas by 2013
75% WWCs
Established in
the country
according to the
norm  by 2013
80% coverage
by 2013
FHB, NIHS
FHB, Provincial
Health
authorities,
Women’s Bureau
FHB, Provincial
Health
authorities
FHB, Provincial
Health
authorities
WHO/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNFPA,
National
Committee
on Women’s
Health
UNFPA/
SLCOG/SL
College of
Pathologists
UNFPA/
SLCOG/SL
College of
Pathologists,
NGOs

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
37A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
3. Reproductive
Health issues of
migrant women
and their families
are addressed
4. STD and HIV/
AIDS services
are integrated  to
MCH program
1. Preparation and
printing of
Package for
migrant women
2. Capacity building
of staff on new
package
3. Implement the
package for
Migrant women &
their families
island wide
1. Integrate relevant
STD & HIV/AIDS
services to pre-
conception care
package & package
for migrant
workers & WWC
programme
Availability of
the package
% of staff
trained
% of MOH
areas
implemented
Availability of
the integrated
package
NA
Zero
Zero
Adhoc
WHO/
UNFPA,
Women’s
Bureau
WHO/UNFPA
Women’s
Bureau
WHO/
UNFPA
WHO/UNFPA
Women’s
Bureau
FHB, Provincial
Health
authorities,National
Committee on
Women’s Health
FHB, NIHS
FHB, Provincial
Health
authorities,
Women’s Bureau
FHB, NSACP
Printed copies
available by
2012
30% of staff by
2012
60% by 2013
50% of MOH
areas by 2013
Integrated by
2013
Component Gender and Reproductive Health
Objective: Promote reproductive health of men and women assuring gender equity and equality
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Capacity of
health staff built
on gender issues
related to
reproductive
health
1. Conduct training
programs for
trainers  at district
level on Gender
and prevention of
GBV
2. Train all Primary
Health Care staff in
the Country
1. Preparation and
printing of Package
No. of districts
where master
trainers are
trained
% of health staff
trained
(preventive/
curative)
Availability of a
printed package
NA
WHO/
UNFPA
Women’s
Bureau
WHO/
UNFPA
Women’s
Bureau
WHO/
UNFPA
FHB and
Provincial/
District staff.
National
Committee on
Women’s Health
FHB, Provincial/
District staff.
FHB National
Committee on
Women’s
Health,Women’s
Bureau
Trainers
available in all
districts by
2012
By 2013, all
PHC staff
trained in the
country
2012

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
38A
2. Services for
prevention and
management of
gender based
violence
established in
the preventive
and curative
health sector
3. Sex
disaggregated
data is
incorporated
into the health
management
information
system, so as to
ensure gender
equity and
equality in
reproductive
health services.
4. Data related to
gender based
violence within
the health sector
are compiled and
published
2. Conduct
sensitization &
Training
programmes in
hospital in the
country
3. Establish hospital
centres providing
befriending services
4. Implement a
package for
hospital staff
1. Incorporate data
regarding
prevention &
management of
GBV into MIS of
Public Health
System
2.  Incorporate data
regarding
management of
GBV into the
hospital MIS
system in hospitals
providing
befriended services
3.  Incorporate sex
disaggregated data
into the MIS in
Public Health
System
1. Promote
compilation and
appropriate
management of data
related to gender
based violence
within the health
sector
No. of hospitals
in  covered per
district
No. of districts
where hospital
centres
established
No. of hospitals
where the
package is
implemented
No. of data
elements
incorporated
No. of hospitals
sending timely
returns
No. of data
elements
incorporated and
No. of MOHs
reported
correctly
No. of reported
compiled and
published
Nil
02
Nil
V ery few
Nil
Nil
20% of districts
by 2013
20% of districts
by 2013
20% of districts
by 2013
Data
incorporated
to MIS by 2012
Data
incorporated
into hospital
MIS 2013
Data
incorporated by
2012
Compilation of
all the data
2013 and
publishing of
reports
FHB and
Provincial/
District staff
FHB, Provincial/
District and
hospital staff
FHB, Provincial/
District and
institutional staff
FHB, Police
Women’s and
children’s Bureau
FHB, Heads of
institutions and
hospital staff
FHB and Public
Health staff
FHB
WHO/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNFPA
WHO/UNFPA
GBV Forum
WHO/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNFPA
WHO/
UNFPA
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
Nil

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
39A
Component Monitoring and Evaluation of  Maternal and Child Health
Objective: Ensure effective monitoring and evaluation of MCH Programme that would generate
quality information to support decision making
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
1. Health
Management
Information
System on
MCH/FP is
updated,
strengthened
and
implemented
well at all levels
2. Reinforce
planning,
monitoring and
evaluation of
MCH program
1. Review and revise
the current
Management
Information system
on MCH/FP
2. Build the capacity
of health staff
managing and
implementing MIS
3. Improve timeliness
of returns and
quality of
information
submitted in returns
4. Logistic system of
printed forms
improved at all
levels
5. Maternal and
perinatal
information system
in maternity care
institutions
developed and
implemented
1. Strategic plan on
MCH is developed
and used by
provincial health
staff
2. New supervision
tools and self
evaluatory tools in
place
No. of records
revised
% of districts
implementing
revised MIS
% of staff
trained by
district
% of MOHs
sent returns
timely
% of records
available
No. of records
where stock
outs reported
No. of
institutions
implemented
Availability of
Strategic plan
Availability of
new tools
Improved
supervision
Provincial
Health staff
UN agencies
UN agencies
UNFPA
WHO
Hospitals
SLCOG ,
SLCCP
WHO
GA VI-HSS
Provincial
Health staff
FHB
FHB, Provincial
Health staff
FHB, Provincial
Health staff
FHB, Ministry
of Health
FHB,  Medical
Statistics unit
FHB
FHB
All records
reviewed and
revised by 2013
75% by 2013
100% by 2014
100% by 2013
90% by 2012
10% by 2012
0% by 2013
50% by 2013
100% by 2014
Available by
2012
Available by
2012
75% of the
target by 2012
Nil
25%
65%
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
40A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
3. Establish a
network for
MCH
information
sharing among
relevant
stakeholders
3. Regular meetings
conducted to
review the
progress of
programme
implementation at
different levels
4. Performance
evaluation of
health staff in
place
5. Monitoring system
to track the
achievement of
MDGs developed
and implemented
6. Introduce GIS into
the existing MIS
1. MIS of MCH/FP
computerized from
divisional up to
national level with
electronically
linked transfer
2. Network
established among
all relevant data
bases and data
shared among stake
holders
3. Timely reporting
of feed back
reports & national
statistics
% of Review
meetings
No. of staff
evaluated and
rewarded
Availability of
monitoring
indicators
Availability of
GIS system for
Monitoring
Electronic data
management and
transfer from
divisional to
central level
available
No. of
institutions
linked through
the network
No. of feedback
reports
published timely
75% by 2012
100% by 2013
60% by 2012
80% by 2013
Available by
2013
Available by
2014
Available by
2014
All by 2013
100% by 2013
FHB
FHB, Ministry
of Health
FHB
FHB
FHB
FHB, MSU,
RG
FHB
Provincial
Health staff
Provincial
Health staff
WHO
WHO
Provincial
Health staff
Development
Partners
Provincial
Health staff
Development
Partners
Provincial
Health staff
Development
Partners
60%
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
50%
75%

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
41A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
Component Reproductive  Health  Research
Objective: Promote  research  for policy and practice in MCH
1. Evidence base
generated in
relation to
MCH services
2. Research
findings/
evidence base
disseminated
for policy
formulation and
practices in
relation to
MCH
3. A collaborative
mechanism is
established for
MCH research
development
and conduct
1. Establishment of
RH data base
2. Provide grants for
outstanding
research proposals
in the MCH field
3. conduct research
on priority areas
1. Conduct meetings
for knowledge
transfer/
dissemination
2. Formulation of
agreed upon
policy for research
ownership and
publications
1. Establish a
network between
research  focal
points
Availability of
RH data base
No. of grant
offered
Conduct at least
one research
annually
No. of
dissemination
sessions
conducted
No. of
presentations
done at
conferences
No. of papers/
publications
done on
reproductive
health research
No. of policy
decisions taken
based on
research findings
Availability of a
policy
No. of linkages
established
No. of
collaborative
work done
A few
A few
Once in two
years
Occasional
A few
DNA
Occasional
NA
No linkage
Available by the
end of year
2013
At least one per
year
Three research
studies at the
end of 2013
At least one per
quarter
At least one for
a research
At least one for
a research
At least one per
research
Available by
2013
Available by
2013
At least three
per year
FHB
FHB, RHR,
DDG/ET&R
FHB
FHB, RHR
committee
PGIM
DDG/ET &R
FHB, DDG
ET&R
FHB,
DDG/ET&R
RHR committee
WHO, RHR
committee
WHO,
UNFPA
WHO
WHO,UNFPA
WHO

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
42A
Expected outcome Major activities Outcome Baseline Tar get and Responsible Partners
indicators timeframe National
organization
4. Human
resource and
infrastructure
development
strengthened at
Research unit
1. Infrastructure and
human resource
development
Availability of
adequate skilled
personnel
Availability of
infrastructure
Made available
by 2012
FHB,  MoH Development
partners
NA
DEFINITIONS/ABBREVIATIONS
TFR (Total fertility rate) - T otal number of children a woman would have by end of her reproductive
period if she experienced the current age specific fertility rates throughout
her child bearing years.
MMR (Maternal Mortality Ratio) - An impact indicator to evaluate maternal care services. Expressed as the
number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births
Infant - Child less than 1 year old
Neonate - Infant aged up to 28 days
IMR  (Infant  Mortality rate) - An impact indicator to evaluate perinatal and child health services. Expressed
as the number of infant deaths per 1000 live births
NNMR (Neonatal Mortality rate) - An impact indicator to eval uate perinatal and  neonatal services. Number of
neonatal deaths per 1000 live births
Perinatal death - Still birth occurring after 28 weeks of POA or Neonatal death occurring
within seven days of birth.
Child - Individual below 18 years of age
Adolescent - Individual between the age of 10 – 19 years
MCH/FP - Maternal and Child Health and Family planning
GNP - Gross National Product
ICPD - International Conference on Population and  Development
MDG - Millennium Development Goals
DHS - Demographic Health Survey, a national survey  conducted every 5 years by
the Dept of Census and Statistics in collaboration with Ministry of Health
RHCS - Reproductive Health Commodity Security
NGOs - Non Governmental Organizations

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 12'05'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.05.2012
43A
WHO - World Health Organization
UNICEF - United Nations Children’s Fund
UNFPA - United Nations  Population  Fund
HMIS - Health Management Information System
PDHS - Provincial Director of Health Services
RDHS - Regional Director of Health Services
MOMCH - Medical Officer, Maternal and Child Health
R E - Regional Epidemiologist
MOH - Medical Officer of Health
RSPHNO - Regional Supervising Public Health Nursing Officer
PHNS - Public Health Nursing Sister
SPHM - Supervising Public Health Midwife
PHM - Public Health Midwife
SPHID - Supervising Public Health Inspector District
SPHI - Supervising Public Health Inspector
PHI - Public Health Inspector
BCC - Behaviour Change Communication
WWC - Well Woman Clinic – clinics mainly based at Primary health care settings,
providing screening services for common Non-communicable diseases such
as diabetes, hypertension, breast and cervical cancers
Women in the reproductive
age group - Women in the age group of 15 – 49 years
CEmOC (Comprehensive
Emergency Obstetric Care facilities) - Maternity care facilities with provision of comprehensive care
(Administration of parenteral antibiotics, Administration of  parenteral
oxytocic drugs, Administration of  parenteral anticonvulsants, Manual
removal of placenta and retained products, assisted vaginal delivery,
Caesarean section, administration of blood transfusion.)
UMN(Unmet need for Contraception) - Married, fertile couples who do not desire to have children but are not
currently using any  contraception.
06 - 570
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.