

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1951$27 – 2016 ckjdrss 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2016'01'28
No. 1951/ 27 – THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No. : CI/ 1789.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Housing Development Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, Sir Chiththampalam A
Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02  of the one part and The Ceylon Bank Employees'Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part
on 07th  day of  October 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Le gislative
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
19th January, 2016.
Collective Agreement No. 28 of 2015
Collective Agreement
between
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION BANK OF SRI LANKA, of Sir Chiththampalam A Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 02, of the one part
AND
CEYLON  BANK  EMPLOYEES’  UNION, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part
1A - G022940 - 16 (2016/ 01)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT is made on this 07th  day of October 2015,  by and between the HDFC Bank  of the one part, (hereinafter
referred to as “the Bank”) and the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union of the other part (hereinafter referred to as "the Union").
The HDFC Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union hereby agree as follows :
Title : This Agreement will be known and referred to as Collective Agreement of “HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
CORPORATION BANK  with THE CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES' UNION FOR THE PERIOD COMMENCING FROM FIRST
JANUARY, TWO THOUSAND and FIFTEEN TO THIRTY FIRST DAY OF DECEMBER, TWO THOUSAND and SEVENTEEN
(01.01.2015 - 31.12.2017)’’.
1. Employer to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind the HDFC Bank, which is a party to this Agreement.
2. Employees to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind mambers of the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union in
employment wih the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories of whom a salary scale has been prescribed in this Agreement in the
Annexure attached hereto.
3. Date of Operation and Duration – This Agreement shall deem to be in force from the First day of January Two Thousand and
Fifteen (1st January, 2015) and thereafter continue to be in force, unless it is determined by either party giving six months (6) notice in writing
to the other, provided however, that no party shall give such notice to the other party before the 1st day of July, 2017 and such notice shall not
expire before the 31st day of December 2017.
4. Matters Covered and Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits. –
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised by the Union
in relation to the period commencing from 2015 to 2017 and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties
before the conclusion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement
raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement other than the
matters relating to non salary benefits which shall be discussed by the Management of Bank with the Ceylon Bank Employees'
Union and reach finality on or before 31st January, 2016. After an agreement has been arrived at, as regards non-salary
benefits, the terms and conditions of same shall be annexed to this agreement, which shall form an integral part thereof.
(b) The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any
of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by
mutual agreement with the Bank.
5. Salary Components. – As from 01.01.2015 each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid upon and subject
to the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly salary which comprises the following componenets.
5.1 Fixed Component.– The fixed Component comprises the following items :
(i) Revised basic salary as set out in the annexure hereto. (Increments will be granted continuously notwithstanding the
maximum point given in the salary scales).
(ii) Allowances
(a) In addition to the basic salary, the following allowances will be paid, effective from 01.01.2015;
(i) Cost of Living Allowance based on the CCPI varying in the particular month.
(ii) Rent Allowance as per item (b) below.
(iii) 10% on the aggregate of the Basic salary + Rent Allowance + Cost of Living Allowance.
(b) The rent allowance will be 20% of the Basic Salary.
5.2 Variable Component.- Basis of determination of variable component shall be determined in the course of time.
6. Taxes on Emoluments.– PAYEE tax on emoluments of staff shall be borne by the Bank. (Except for the employees where their
letter of employment state otherwise)
7. Conversion of the Basic Salary.–
(a) The basic salaries of all employees will be converted to the revised  scale by applying the step for step (point by point) method
of conversion.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
3A
e.g. An employee who had been on the 5 th step of the scale as at 31.12.2014 will be placed on the 5 th step of the relevant revised
scale with effect from 01.01.2015.
(b) Non-Banking Stream personnel shall also be placed at the appropriate revised salary scale, on the same basis.
8. Conversion Anomalies.-  The HDFC Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union jointly agree to execute the Collective Agreement
for the year 2015-2017 subject to the rectifying of possible anomalies associated with calculation of increments in the salary scales as corrected
by other three government Banks (Bank of Ceylon, Peoples Bank and National Savings Bank) that would arise subsequently to this revision.
Any anonalies that would arise consequent to this revision shall also be examined by a Committee comprising of representative of the
HDFC Bank and the Union and will be rectified suitably.
9. Interim Allowance.- Necessary adjustments as per the Grades will be made to recover the overpayment of the interim allowance made
to the staff members according to the MOU dated 23rd March, 2015, within a period of 28 months.
10. Other Commitments.– The Union further agrees to assist,  and support the Management of the Bank in every manner to obtain the
maximum contribution of its members to achieve the targets set out in the Business Plan / Startegic Plan of the Bank.
11.Where the existing terms and conditions of employment of an employee covered and bound by this agreement and any existing
concessions extended to the members of the Union are more favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this agreement, then
nothing in this agreement shall in any way affect or prejudice such existing terms and conditions of employment and such concessions shall
continue to exist, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.
12.Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitled to, or becomes entitled on or after that date under or by virtue
of any law, contract agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favourable than those to which he / she would be entitled
under this agreement, nothing in this agreement shall be deemed or construed to authorize or permit the Bank to withhold, restr ict or
terminate such right or privilege.


<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
02 - 360


<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
5A
My No. : CI/ 1786.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
The Collective Agreement entered into between The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, No. 24, Sir Baron Jayatilaka
Mawatha, Colombo 01  of the one part and The Ceylon Bank Employees' Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10  of the other part on 9th
day of October 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
19th January, 2016.
Collective Agreement No. 26 of 2015
Table of Contents:
01. Parties to be Covered and Bound 06
02. Date of Operation and Duration 06
03. Earlier Agreements 07
04. Matters Covered and Bound 07
05. Salary Ranges 07
06. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Ranges 07
07. Allowances 07
(a) Cost of Living Allowance 07
(b) Disturbance Allowance 07
08. Annual Salary Increments 08
09. Pension Payments To Employees Who Have Retired From Service 08
10. Promotions from Non - Clerical (Minor Staff) to Clerical Grade 08
11. Provident Fund 08
(a) Rate of Contribution 08
(b) Interest on Provident Fund Contribution held by the Bank 09
(c) Deficiency in Bank's Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension 09
12. Terminal Benefits 09
(a) Pensions 09
(b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/disability 09
(c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights 09
(d) Death Gratuity 10
(e) Gratuity on Resignation/Termination Prior to Retirement 10
(f) Completed Years of Service 10
(g) Commuted Pension 10
13. Medical Scheme 10
(i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalisation Expenses 10
(ii) Special Non - Hospitalization and Non - Surgical Expenses 10
(iii) Spectacle/Denture/Hearing Aid Claim 11
(iv) Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure 11

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
(v) Extended coverage of Surgical and Hospitalization expenses 11
(vi) Maternity Cover 11
14. Retirement 11
15. Bonus 12
16. Probation 12
17. Concesssions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors 12
18. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branch 12
19. Overtime 12
20. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave 12
(a) Annual Leave 12
(b) Medical Leave 13
(c) Casual Leave 14
21. Suspension 14
22. Disciplinary Procedure 14
23. Technology 16
24. Trade Union Action 16
(a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement 16
(b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement 16
25. Union Check-off Facilities 16
26. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement 16
27. Consequences of Termination of Agreement 17
28. Definitions 17
The First Schedule 17
The Second Schedule 18
The Third Schedule 19
THIS Collective Agreement made this  9th day of October  2015 between the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, a Bank
duly registered  in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 24, Sir Baron Jayatilaka Mawatha, Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as “the
Bank”)
of the One Part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 20, Temple Road,
Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
of the Other Part
WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Collective Agreement of 2012 which came into effect on 1st April,
2012 and subsequent to negotiations between the Bank and the Union, agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for the
purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees and maintaining an
efficient and productive working environment, the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder :
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound. –
 This Agreement shall cover and bind The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited (the Bank), The Ceylon Bank Employees Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on monthly contracts of employ-
ment by the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories as at the date of signing this Agreement and for whom salary ranges have been
prescribed in this agreement in the First Schedules hereto (hereinafter referred to as the employees). This Agreement shall not cover and bind
any employee who is a Supervisor, Staff Officer, Secretary, Executive and any other Staff on special rates of pay.
2. Date of Operation and Duration. – This Agreement shall come into force on 1st March 2015 and shall continue until either party
terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 28th February 2018. The
Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised Collective  Agreement at any time on or after 1st March 2017.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
7A
3. Earlier Agreements. – This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on the parties hereto
and such earlier Agreements shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.
4. Matters Covered and Bound. –
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised by the Union
and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of this Agreement and the Union
agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were discussed and
negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the extent agreed.
(b) The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any
of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other
than by mutual agreement with the Bank.
5. Salary Ranges. –  Every employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of signing this Agreement shall, from the 1st
March  2015  be placed on the basic salary range set out in the First Schedule hereto,
6. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Ranges. – For the placement of an employee on the basic salary range applicable
in the First Schedule, the following provisions shall apply.
All employees in service as at 28th February 2015, will receive the following increases;
(i) A sum equivalent to 12% of gross salary payable to an employee as at 28
th February 2015 will be added to the basic salary
effective from 1st March  2015,
(ii) A Further sum equivalent to 10% of gross salary payable to an employee as at 28th February  2015 will be added to the basic
salary effective from 1st March 2016.
(iii) A sum further equivalent to 10% of gross salary payable to an employee as at 28th February 2015 will be added to the basic
salary effective from 1st March 2017,
All employees joining after 28th February  2015, will be placed on the starting salary of Rs. 20,000/ -. Upon completion of
two (2) years service, such employees shall be granted a 22% increase in their basic salary calculated on the basis of
22% x (17,000 basic + 20,000  COLA as at 28th February 2015).
7. Allowances. –
(a) COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA) .–
Parties are agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of living allowance for the duration of
the Collective Agreement.
(a) LKR 22,000/- with effect from 01.03.2015;
(b) LKR 23,500/- with effect from 01.03.2016;
(c) LKR 25,000/- with effect from 01.03.2017;
Provided  however, in the event of the Department of Census & Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to the rate
of payment in relation to the Colombo Consumer's Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base year 2006/2007) and
if your union makes a request for a meeting to discuss the modalities of making this payment, the Bank would be open to
do so.
b) DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCE
With effect from 1st March  2015 an employee called upon to report for work before 7.00 a.m. shall continue
to receive LKR 550/= per day, and if required to report before 6.00 a.m. shall continue to receive LKR 800=
per day.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
8. Annual Salary Increments.– With effect from 1st March 2015, the annual increments awarded to employees covered and bound
by this Agreement will be based on the employee’s performance during the previous Calendar year.
The performance of the employees will be assessed in terms of the performance Assessment Review and in terms of same, the
granting of annual increments will be based on the ratings and the corresponding amounts of increments as follows :
Ratings Annual Increments for 2016, 2017 and 2018
Top Performer LKR 3500 / =
Strong Performer LKR 2500 / =
Good Performer LKR 1500 / =
Inconsistent Performer LKR 250 / =
In terms of the above ratings, a minimum annual increment of LKR 250/ = (except in cases where disciplinary action is being taken)
will be payable during the period of this Agreement.
9. Pension Payments To Employees Who Have Retired From Service.–
 Any employee who has retired from service between 1 st
March 2015 and the date hereof shall be entitled to have his pension calculated on the basis of the salary in terms of clause 6 (i) hereof.
10. Promotions from Support Staff to Banking Assistant Grade.–  Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff at their
discretion, the Bank will consider the above promotions subject to the following criteria :
(i) The number of vacancies in the clerical cadre will be announced internally by advertisement by Staff Notice annually. Such
notice shall stipulate the job requirements of the vacancy advertised, ie. Educational qualifications, age, and any other
particular criteria required for such job as determined by the Bank.
(ii) Any such employee in the non-clerical grade whose record of service, conduct and attendance has been satisfactory, with
more than four years of service with the Bank who has necessarily completed the first part of the chartered Institute of
Bankers (London) or Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka will be eligible to apply and will be considered for such clerical
position. The selection process will include, interview, written tests etc, as determined by the Bank.
(iii) Any Support Staff whose record of service and conduct has been satisfactory with more than eight years’ service with the
Bank, shall be exempt from the minimum education qualifications stipulated in the Notice and may apply for such vacancy
and will be considered in the manner specified at Para (ii) above.
(iv) Any such employee promoted in the manner specified above will be required to serve a period of probation of twelve
months which may be extended by the Bank for a further period of up to six months during which, or at the end of which,
the Bank may at their discretion revert such employee to this earlier position and salary.
(v) The basic salary to any such employee promoted in the manner - specified above shall be in the Clerical Salary range which
will be not less than his current salary Any non-clerical employee who conforms to the above requirements shall be
promoted, if there are vacancies.
(vi) The decision of the Bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive.
11. Provident Fund.–
(a) RATE OF CONTRIBUTION. - The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank shall be :
Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve per cent) of salary
Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
Provident Fund contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount paid for that
month as cost of living allowance subject to the Rules of he Provident Fund.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
9A
(b) INTEREST ON PROVIDENT FUND CONTRIBUTION HELD BY THE BANK.–  Where Provident Fund monies are in-
vested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid of 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of
LKR. 100,000/= published in the N.S.B prevailing as at the 1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing
on the 1st July for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
(c)
DEFICIENCY IN BANK’S CONTRIBUTIONS TO PROVIDENT FUND TO AN EMPLOYEE NOT ENTITLED TO A
PENSION .– Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle him to a
pension or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference between the
Bank’s contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate of contribution he
would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employee’s Provident Fund Act and its amendments from time to time as a
contribution to the Fund by the employer on behalf of such employee. Such deficiency will be the difference between the
following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Banks up to 31st
March 1992.
From 1.1.71 to 31.12.80 - 9% of gross salary
From 1.1.81 onwards - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.70 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary), which was less than
10% of basic salary, and therefore no deficiency arises.
12. Terminal Benefits. – It is agreed by parties that with effect from the date of signing this agreement the pension schemes
applicable to employees covered and bound shall be applied as follows :
In the case of those in employment at the time of signing this collective agreement the Bank shall offer such employees a 'one time'
option of changing over from the existing Defind 'Benefit Scheme' to the new 'Defined Contribution Scheme'. The frozen amount at the 'switch
over' will be kept as a credit to the staff member until cessation of employment.
1. Defined Benefit Scheme : Employees in employment at the time of signing this collective agreement and who opt to
remain in the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme will continue to be governed as follows,
(a)
PENSION.– An employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his employment shall, upon reaching the retirement age
of the Bank and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10
years of actual continuous service (excluding absence / leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the
following basis :
No. of completed years Monthly salary
Service (max. 35 years) plus 5  x payable in the month
Retirement age of the Bank of retirement + COLA
(b)
PREMATURE RETIREMENT ON MEDICAL GROUNDS /  DISABILITY.–  An employee who is found to be unable to
continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/ disability, as certified by the Bank/s Doctor/ Medical Specialist/
Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed
not less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension
computed on the same basis referred to at clause 12 (a) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to
compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled
to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose
premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre - acceptance of
pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation
under any written law.
(c)
LUMP SUM GRATUITY IN LIEU OF PENSION RIGHTS.–  An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of
(a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other
payments arising there from. The payment will be computed on the following basis :
No. of completed years 1 Month’s Basic salary plus
Service (max. 35 years) plus 5 x 1 month’s Cost of Living
                 Allowance calculated for
                 the month of retirement.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of the
cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency, if any, in the Bank’s contribution to Provident Fund to
an employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 12.
(d)
DEATH GRATUITY .– On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the
Bank, the Bank will make a compassionate payment of one and half month’s gross salary for each year of completed service
subject to a minimum of nine month’s gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be
determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of an
employee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employee
provided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the
gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last
drawn salary plus Cost of Living Allowance.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall be entitled
to receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under any laws in force at the time
on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever is higher. Provided
further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as
provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to
them under any written law.
(e)
GRATUITY ON RESIGNATION/ TERMINATION PRIOR TO RETIREMENT.–  An employee shall, upon  resignation/
termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which do not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to
at the aformentioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) be entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act
(1983), which shall be paid within 30 days of the cessation of employment. The salary for this purpose shall comprise the
salary referred to at Clause 5 and the Cost of Living Allowance referred to at Clause 7 (a) hereof.
(f) Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/ leave without
pay, but subject  to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 15 thereof.
(g)
COMMUTED PENSION.–
(i) At the option of the employee at the time of retirement on or after 1st April 2000, 25% of the monthly pension into 120
will be paid to employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided for in the
agreement and who opt for such commuted pension.
(ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable to him during
the first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have been entitled to at the time of
retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the said ten years the amount of the monthly
pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly pension then being paid.
2. Defined Contribution.- Employees recruited after the 24th of May 2012 and who are covered and bound shall only be eligible for
the HSBC Defined Contribution Pension Scheme (Subject to regulatory Approval) in relation to which the Bank shall contribute
10% of the Gross salary.
13. Medical Scheme. –
(i)
REIMBURSEMENT OF MEDICAL EXPENSES FOR NON-HOSPITALISATION EXPENSES.–
The Bank will make available for an employee to reimburse up to a value of Rs.75,000.00 per calendar year effective from
1st January 2015 as medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried legitimate
children under the age of 18 in respect of below:
LKR 25,000 - for routine non - hospitalization/non surgical expenses
LKR 25,000 - for any medical testing recommended by an authorised physician
LKR 25,000 - for claims related to Spectacles/ Dentures/ Hearing aids
(ii)
MEDICAL BILLS AND TESTING.–
Out of the above Rs. 75,000.00 the Bank will make available for an employee to reimburse up to a value of Rs. 50,000.00
per calendar year effective from 1st January 2015 as medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of
his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18 as per the above.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
11A
All claims need to be supported with valid prescriptions, bills and receipts that are dated within 3 months at the time of
reimbursement.
A copy of the prescription is mandatory for any item on the bill that exceeds LKR 2500.00.
A copy of the prescription needs to be provided for any pharmaceutical drugs that require a doctor's prescription for
purchase.
Items excluded under this scheme are specified below:
* Dental: Dentures, Braces, Cappings. (consultation, filling and tooth extraction are reimbursed)
* Optical : Spectacles, Contact lenses, etc. (only the consultation is reimbursed)
* Treatment of cosmetic nature, any tablet, cream related to cosmetic nature
* Medical expenditure incurred outside SriLanka
* Food items (example : Sustergen, Diet milk etc.)
* Medical equipment related (example : Thermometer/ guards/ syringes, etc.)
* Fertility related tests and drugs (only the consultation is reimbursed)
* Ayurvedic : Any claim for ayurvedic treatments and / or medicines will be accommodated in an exceptional basis taking
the ailment into consideration
* Physiotherapy : Any claims related to physiotherapy treatment to be provide with a doctor prescription.
(iii) SPECTACLES/DENTURES/HEARING AID CLAIM.–
 The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum of LKR 25,000/- during
the three year period on account of Spectacles/Dentures/Hearing Aids.
All claims shall be supporteed by valid and relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts subject to the provision that no claim is
made in relation to any particular item more than once a year, and in the case of spectacles it must be supported by a
prescription from a Medical Eye Specialist.
Spectacles : In the case of an employee is advised by a Medical Eye Specialist to change the lenses, the bank will reimburse
claims relating expenses incurred in lieu of purchase of optical lenses if there is any remaining balance.
Dentures : Cappings, braces and any such items are excluded.
(iv)
SURGICAL AND HOSPITALISATION EXPENDITURE .–
Employees will  continue to be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private)
expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, spouse and unmarried legitimate children under 18 years of age subject to the
production of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to LKR 130,000/- per annum.
(v) EXTENDED COVERAGE OF SURGICAL AND HOSPITALIZATION EXPENSES IN EXCEPTIONAL CIR-
CUMSTANCES.-
In addition to the surgical and hospitalization cover specified in 13 (iii) above, the Bank will consider requests  for
reimbursement of additional costs incurred on account of hospitalization up to an annual limit of LKR 100,000/ - under
exceptional circumstances.
The Second Shedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursment of medical expenditure will be effected.
(vi)
MATERNITY COVER. -
Normal child birth will be covered under the Surgical and Hospitalization limits as given in 13 (iii) above.
14. Retirement.–
(a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its employees, and on
reaching the age of 55, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed
by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such retirement.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
(b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and has 10 or more
years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, such employee  Union and the employer that he should
be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall
not constitute an industrial dispute.
15. Bonus.–
(i) GUARANTEED BONUS.-
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to every employee
covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the month of December in respect
of one complete year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less than one year at the rate of
one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. The salary for this purpose shall include the cost
of living allowance payable for that month.
(ii) DISCRETIONARY PERFORMANCE BONUS.-
 In addition to the above, the Bank reserves the right to introduce a discretionary variable performance bonus scheme for 1,2 and
3 rated performers to further recognize their contribution to the Bank.
The scheme details to be shared with the union prior to such implementation.
16. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine months probation subject to the right of the Bank
to extend the period of probation by a period of three months.
17. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councillors .–
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than four Branch Union Office Bearers at any one given
occasion  without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present at inquiries before the
Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with their respective Bank Managements -
exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
(b) It is agreed that Central committee members(General Council) of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.30 p.m. on 12
days in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation General  Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the whole
day for 12 General Council Meetings in a year.
(c) It is agreed that a days’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General Councillors to attend Parent Union
General Council meetings.
(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive Committee of the
Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
18. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branch.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leave
to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total number
of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than 30 miles from Colombo.
19. Overtime.–
(a) If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the employer,
subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.
(b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees Act.
20. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave. –
(a)
ANNUAL LEAVE.–
(i) ENTITLEMENT.– In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during
which an employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21 working

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
13A
days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive days and shall in respect of
each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.
(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :
(a) The full annual holiday of 21 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 1st April.
(b) A holiday of 15 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
(c) A holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October, and
(d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.
(iii) AVAILMENT.– The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorisation of the Bank upon the employee’s
application, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iv) ACCUMULATION.– Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purposes:
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.
(d) For marriage of the employee
(e) Prolonged illness of the employee
(f) For purpose of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
Provided that in the case of (b) and (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Management. Family member
for purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children and parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year and provided further that
such total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days.
(b) MEDICAL LEAVE. –
(i) ENTITLEMENT – An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or
other holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) AVAILMENT– The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not
supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) Where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays; or
(b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Medical
Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.
(iii) ACCUMULATION .– An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be
entitled to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to the
following provisions ;
(a) In no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed ninety (90)
days; and
(b) The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization or similar
circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner
(c) Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such as an
infectious disease or prolonged hospitalizations, the employer may permit him to  set off any further absence on
grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken for such earlier
prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and / or take any action
as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a Certificate from a Registered
Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and / or reason for absence of
an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any weekly or
other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and /or reason for
absence of the employee.
(c) CASUAL  LEAVE.–  An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of
employment where of not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precede
or follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such
absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been foreseen by such
employee.
21. Suspension. –
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a  disciplinary inquiry on investigations, such employee will, subject to the
provisions of Sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months and full
pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such a fraud or misappropriation, the
employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded within six
months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) during
his suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee’s
own conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or
conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding the inquiry
within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the employee makes repeated
requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in police custody or where the matter is under investigation by the
Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.
22. Disciplinary Procedure. –
 Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the case
of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply ;
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show cause letter which
shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause letter shall give the employee not less
than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in writing to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the Bank his
explantion to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable the employee may request
the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and where such request is made, the Bank
shall normally grant such request for such further period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumtances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause and the Bank
is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdrow the charge/s against the employee and if the employee is under
suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in
respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not satisfied with
such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause ( k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the charges against such
employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the date of receipt
by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for reasons beyond the Bank’s
control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused employee or
an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent the

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
15A
person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) or a central Committee member of the Union employed in the bank
to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence
from work on this account. The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry
as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the
name of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement of
the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee and cross examine
witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a Defending Employee or Observer who obstructs
the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defending Employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
The absence of a Defending Employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall
not vitiate such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to
participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the inquiring Officer may ask him at this descretion.
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and the accused
employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and a copy issued to the accused
employee for all purposes thereafter the  proceedings shall be taken as a true copy of such proceedings before the Inquiring
Officer.
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as well.
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in writing, of the
findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days except for
reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee shall not be punished
thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the following
circumstances :
(i) where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show cause in which
event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee had no cause to show.
(ii) where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the employer
thereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21) working
days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding on the Bank,
the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which the
Bank had notified such employee of the finds or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such finds and / or punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that –
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall takes effect as from
the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that the Bank shall not be entitled
to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the employee in respect of such period of
suspension, if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith and shall be
paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose
such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or part of the period of suspension
pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held in view of the
fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other authorities for investigation
or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the employee.
(o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this Agreement.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
23. Technology.–
(i) The Third Schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Computer based banking technology agreed upon between the
parties.
(ii) The Bank will furnish the Union on request information relating to new computer hardware to be introduced by the Bank,
i.e., published manufacturer’s specifications relating to equipment. The Bank will be under no obligation to provide
information relating to software.
(iii) The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new computer based banking
technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) above.
(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on matters relating
to computer based banking technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard and any representations/ dispute
in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.
(v) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be referred to the
Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the Monitoring Committee not
being able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of Health and Safety of the Labour
Department and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changes
are necessary in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank to
 implement such changes.
24. Trade Union Action.–
(a) MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT :
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during the
continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-
slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute
related to this Agreement.
(b) MATTERS NOT RELATED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT :
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during the
continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-
slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute that
may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –
(i) The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank,
at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the Parent Union
(the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)
(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all forms of
conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give notice in
writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute and
that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of
Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.
25. Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not less than forty
(40) per cent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, however, that
the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating any of the provi sions of this
Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
26. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.–Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in
which the Collective Agreement is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology
change such matters shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank and

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
17A
two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may request that the matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee  by
communication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1950.
27. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.–
On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or its
members shall ipso facto cease.
28. Definitions.–
 In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings.
Bank The Hongkong and  Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Basic Salary Monthly Salary paid excluding COLA
Employee an employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Cost of Living Allowance the payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner set out in
Clause 7 (a) hereof.
Parent Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the Industrial
Disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the Branch
Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.
Salary Shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.
Words indicating the masculine gender shall include the feminine and words indicating the singular number shall include the plural and vice
versa.
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
Basic Salary Ranges
BANKING ASSISTANT
LKR 20,000/- to LKR 86,595/- Annual increments in accordance with Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement.
Support Staff Salary Ranges
LKR 15,000 / = to LKR 85,662 / =
Annual increments in accordance with Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - 2015
THE  SECOND SCHEDULE
1. The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement.
It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to be included in this
Scheme. No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
2. Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalisation involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.
3. The Bank must be notified promptly and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission to hospital.
4. The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the employee shall be
required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms) and submit documentation
required by Bank/ Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the Insurance
Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time to time the documentary requirements and time limits
within which documents should be submitted. Where an employee does not comply, such employee will not be entitled to
benefits under this Scheme.
5. Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this Scheme and
any deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any benefit under this Scheme. In addition, the employee will be
liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
6.  (a) The Bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ Nursing Homes, expenses
incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the Scheme. Additions and / or deletions to this list will also be
made by internal circular.
(b) If the reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the Institutions given
in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of amendments to the list  referred
to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a named Institution(s) and the Bank shall  consider
such application on a case by case basis and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided
however, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.
7. Exclusions .–
The Scheme shall not cover benefits / expenses :
(a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment outside Sri Lanka.
(b) Occasioned by or happening through,
(i) The participation by the employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy, Hostilities
(whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military,
Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence Force, Police, Security Force, Home Guard etc.
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Veneral Disease, Insanity and illnesses resulting from Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome.
(iii) Normal childbirth or pregnancy subject to clause 13 (iv). Provided that if an employee has been employed for a
continuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses incurred for any abnormality of maternity
which is in excess of what a normal childbirth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the
required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who makes
the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, Volcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
19A
(c) Incurred whilst travelling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type of civil
aircraft operated by a recognized airlines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil aircraft having two
or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted
by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.
(d) In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.
(e) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
8. The benefits under this Scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Years” in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement shall
be deemed to be the period 01st January to 31st December. In the case of employees who join during the course of a year the
overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will be pro-rated to the number of full months of
service up to 31st December.
9. In respect of claims for hospitalisation which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the entitlement of either
or both years, subject, however, to the event limit specified in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement.
THE THIRD SCHEDULE
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computed Based Banking Technology by the Bank
covered and bound by this Agreement.
1. Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of  VDU/ non VDU tasks which seek
to provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.
2. The workload of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring proper safety and
effectiveness of the operation.
3. The Banks agree to provide VDU operators with adequate training within the parameters of their job description to  ensure the
safety and health of employees.
4. (a) In selecting VDUs, the Bank will attempt to obtain equipment, which will ensure the following :
(i) Screens that give clear stable images.
(ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.
(iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.
The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing documents and
ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.
The Bank will endeavour to provide lighting facilities to minimise visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
Employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU, will be
permitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to his
commencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adverse report being obtained from the Optician, the employee should
inform the Bank immediately.
Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU,
and he is already using spectacles, when he is called upon to operate a VDU for the first time, he will be permitted, at the
expenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as to
whether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examination and modification to the lenses if necessary,
will be borne by the Bank on the following basis:

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
(i) The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical Assistance Scheme
herein.
(ii) The cost of modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such cost should exceed
the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.
5. Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the Bank is
agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours so long as there is no disruption
of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
6. The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the
Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representations as to whether the main or primary
function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute being raised on this issue.
7. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in consequence of the
introduction of new computer based banking technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any one or more of the following
options:
(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform work which is within
their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation to such
employees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment, which the Bank would under normal
circumstances be entitled to effect.
(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the Bank consider it necessary.
(c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this Agreement,
with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not amount to retrenchment
within the meaning of this schedule.
8. For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant conse-
quent upon the introduction of new computer based banking technology. It will not include a situation where such redundant
employees voluntarily leave the service of the employers on terms mutually agreed upon.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016
21A
In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this 19th day of October 2015 at Colombo.
02 - 361
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA