

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"102 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'12'14
No. 2,102 -  FRIday, decembe R  14, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL  councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...    ––
appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
by-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
          Page 
examinations, Results of examinations, &c. ... 
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1379
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
aTTeNTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th January, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st december, 2018.
 electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
	 Gangani	Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81477 - 5,403 (12/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
2
examinations, Results of examinations, &c.
oPen comPeTITIVe exAmInATIon foR  The RecRuITmenT  To The PoST  of 
cooPeRATIVe DeVeLoPmenT  offIceR -GRADe 111 of The DePARTmenT  of
 cooPeRATIVe DeVeLoPmenT   of The 
noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVIncIAL  councIL  PubLIc SeRVIce – 2018
aPPLIca TIONS  are invited from the males and females who have the following qualifications and who are permanent 
residents of the North Western Province to be recruited to the Post of Cooperative Development Officer-Grade 111 of the 
department of cooperative development   of the North Western Provincial council Public Service. 
   It is hereby announced that the above examination will be conducted by the North Western Provincial council Public 
Service commission in February, 2019 at an examination centre established in Kurunegala. North Western Provincial council 
Public Service commission reserves the right of postponing or cancelling the examination. 
02.		Educational	and	Professional	Qualifications:-
 2.1			Educational	Qualifications:
  I. Should have passed 06 subjects in the same sitting with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/english, mathematics 
and other two subjects at the General Certificate of Education (OrdinaryLevel) Examination.
        and
  II. Should have passed all subjects in the same sitting including at least one subject out of economics, biology, 
Agriculture, Combined Maths, Accountancy, Business Statistics,and Business  Studies (excluding the Common 
General Test) at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination.
 2.2			Professional	Qualifications:
  I. Should have passed the advanced diploma in accounting or diploma in audit management conducted by 
National Institute of cooperative development or,
  II. Should have passed the Final Stage of Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT) or any other equivalent 
qualification or, 
  III. Should have passed a recognized diploma in accounting or management conducted by a university                     
     or, 
  IV . Should have passed the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of 
advanced Technological education or,
  V . Should have obtained a degree in management or accounting or commerce from a university recognized  by 
the University Grant commission. 
03.		Other	Qualifications:
  I. applicants should have excellent moral character and should be in good health condition.
  II. Applicants who are applying for this post should be citizens of Sri Lanka and should be permanent residents 
of the territory of the North Western Provincial council, during the preceding three years to the closing date 
of application. 

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
3
   (Residency should be proved by a Certificate of Residence issued by the Grama Niladari and counter signed 
by the Divisional Secretary.)
  III. age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at closing date of   application.
  IV . all educational, professional, and other requirements shall be completed by the closing date of   application 
and the certificates should have been obtained on or before that date.
04.	Salary	Scale:
   The monthly  salary scale applicable to this post according to the Salary Scale mN 3-2016 as per the schedule 
1 of the Public  administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25-02-2016 is Rs. 31,040 – 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 – 
10 x 730 – 10 x 750 – Rs. 57,550/=
   (However, salaries will be paid according to the schedule 11 of the said circular until 01-01-2020.)
05.	Conditions	of	Service:
  5.1  This post is permanent. The pension scheme applicable to this post will be subjected to a policy decision taken 
by the government in the future.
  5.2  The appointees to this post will be subjected to probation period of (three) 03 years and will be confirmed at 
the end of the probation period, if his/her work and conduct is satisfactory, and if the appointee has passed the 
first Efficiency Bar, and if he/she has satisfied the other requirements needed to be confirmed in the service.
  5.3  The appointees shall acquire  the competency in the other official language/ languages other than the language 
that qualified for this post, during 05 years from the date of appointment, in terms of Public Administration 
circular No: 01/2014 and other incidental circulars.
  5.4  Every applicant should be mentally and physically fit to serve in any part of North Western Province. 
  5.5  The appointees shall be subjected to the establishment code and Financial Regulations of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations Code of North Western Province, Disciplinary Procedure Code of 
North Western Province, Procedural Rules of the North Western Provincial council, departmental orders, and 
other orders issued by the government and the North Western Provincial council, in addition to the regulations 
and functions assigned by the Scheme of Recruitment and Promotion applicable to this post.
06.		Method	of	Recruitment:
  6.1  Recruitment will be made on the results of a written competitive examination conducted by the North Western 
Provincial council Public Service commission. 
  6.2  equal number of applicants to the existing number of vacancies will be summoned to the interview that is held 
to check the qualifications, in accordance with the merit order of the total of both subjects of the applicants who 
have obtained 40% or more for each examination paper prescribed for the examination syllabus. Marks will 
not be given at the interview. Educational, professional, and other required basic qualifications and physical 
fitness will be checked at the interview.
  6.3  All the existing vacancies will be filled on the results of a written competitive examination.
07.		Written	Examination:
  7.1  Written examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil or english medium and the applicants will not be 
allowed to change the medium later, for any reason. 
  7.2  This examination will consist of two question papers.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
4
Question Paper Duration Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1.  Intelligence Quotient Test 01 hour 100 40%
2.   General Knowledge 01. hour 100 40%
  7.3  Syllabus for the examination 
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1.  Intelligence Quotient Test This is a question paper consists of 50 questions with multiple choice 
questions and short answers to check the candidates’ ability of logical 
thinking, analytical skills and decision making. 
2.  General Knowledge This is a question paper consists of 50 questions with multiple choice 
questions and short answers to check
   (a)  National and international Social, Economic and 
          Political knowledge 
   (b)  Knowledge on Cooperative Vision and Businesses
08.	Examination	Fees:
   a  sum of Rupees 600/- as the examination fee should be paid to the divisional Secretariat of the area of                    
permanent residence of the candidate, to be credited to the Revenue Head  2003-02-13 of North Western 
Provincial Council and the receipt NWP (uq)/2 obtained from the Divisional Secretariat to be affixed at the 
appropriate cage  of the application. Other receipts or money orders will not be entertained except the receipts 
obtained so, from the Divisional Secretariat. (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt may be useful for future 
reference) It should be noted that the examination fee is nonrefundable under any circumstances and will not 
be allowed to transfer for any other examination.
09.	Method	of	Applying:-
  9.1  applications should be prepared in a4 size paper using the both sides as per the specimen application given at 
the end of this notification. Duly filled applications should be sent under registered post to reach “Secretary, 
North	Western	Provincial	Council	Public	Service	Commission,	Provincial	Council	Office	Complex,	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
kurunegala” on or before 14.01.2019. The words “open competitive examination for the Recruitment 
to	the	Post	of	Cooperative	Development	Officer-Grade	111	of	the	Department	of	Cooperative	Develop-
ment   of the north Western Provincial council Public Service – 2018” should be written on the top left 
hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application. 
  9.2  The applications which do not comply with the specimen, not carry the receipt of examination fee paid before 
the due date, or  late, unclear or incomplete will be rejected without any notice. Further it is responsibility of 
the applicant to check whether the prepared application complies with the specimen. The applicant should 
bear the liability for the losses due to incomplete applications. It would be useful to keep the photocopy of the 
completed application. The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged. 
  9.3  attestation of the Signature of the applicant:-

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
5
   The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ an 
officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service, or Staff Grade officer holding a permanent post in the 
public service whose monthly salary is above Rs. 32, 960/-  
 9.4   The closing date of applications is 14.01.2019.
10.  The applications which do not comply with the specimen or incomplete will be rejected. The issuance of an admission 
card for this examination does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications for this post. The originals 
of the documents to prove the qualifications should be produced at the interview. It is compulsory that all the applicants 
must fulfill all the relevant requirements on or before the closing date of applications. 
11.	Identity	of	the	Applicants:-
 every applicant should prove his/her identity by a below mentioned document for every subject to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor of the examination hall. 
 (i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Persons Registration
 (ii) Valid passport
 Note: 
 applicants who fail to establish their identity at the examination hall will be considered as ineligible applicants.
12.The application shall be completed cautiously with correct information. That information shall not be allowed to amend in 
any circumstance.If a candidate is found ineligible to appear for the examination according to the rules and regulations 
of this examination the candidature  of such applicant is liable to be cancelled before, during or after the examination or 
at any stage. If an applicant has furnished false information, he/she can be dismissed from the North Western Provincial 
council Public Service,at any stage. The issuance of an admission card for this competitive examination does not mean 
that he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications for this post.
13.  admission cards along with copies of the examination time table will be issued by the Secretary, North Western Pro-
vincial council Public Service commission to all applicants who have sent the duly completed applications with the 
receipts obtained after paying the examination fees, on or before the closing date of applications, presuming that only 
the persons who possess the qualifications mentioned in this notification have applied. Immediately after the admission 
cards are issued, a notification will be published in the official website in the North Western Provincial Council Public 
Service Commission (www. psc. nw.gov.lk) In case the admission for the examination is not received before 3 days of 
the date of examination, it should be notified immediately to the “Secretary, North Western Provincial Council Public 
Service Commission, Provincial Council Office Complex, Kurunegala”, along with the following details.The admission 
card, in which the signature of the applicant is duly attested, should be produced to the examiner at the examination.
  (i) Name of the examination
  (ii)  Full name of the applicant
  (iii) Address
  (iv) National Identity card No:
  (v) Postal Registration Number and the date
14.   North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking the final decision on conduct-
ing or not conducting this examination, selecting or not selecting the candidates, after the examination, and determining 

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
6
the number of vacancies to be filled. Further, the decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
Commission will be final and conclusive on the matters ,if any,  that not covered by this notification.
15.  If there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in Sinhala, 
Tamil or english, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
  by order of North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
 Padmini Kariyawasam, 
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial council Public Service commission
North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala
2018.12.05
SPecImeN  aPPLIcaTION  
                                  (For office use only)
Open	Competitive	Examination	for	the	Recruitment	to	the	Post	of	Cooperative	Development	Officer	–
 Grade III of the 
north Western Provincial council Public Service – 2018
Language Medium of Examination (Please mark √ inside the appropriate cage)
  Sinhala              Tamil         english
01. 1.1  Name with Initials (Sinhala / Tamil) : Mr/Mrs/Miss…………………………….…………
   ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 1.2 Name with initials (English Block Letters) : Mr/Mrs/Miss ……………………………..………………… 
 ……………………………………………………………………………
 1.3 Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil):……………………………………………………….………
   ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 1.4   Full Name (English Block Letters) : Mr/Mrs/Miss ……………………...…………………
   ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 1.5 National Identity card No :  
02.  2.1 Permanent Address ( Sinhala / Tamil ) :……………………………………………………
 ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 2.2 Permanent Address (English Block Letters): ………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
7
 2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent :…………...………………………………
 ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 2.4 Telephone Number ( Personal ): ……………………………
03.  Gender ((Please mark √ inside the appropriate cage)
    Female – F    male - m
04.  4.1  Date of Birth : Year:……………  Month :…………… Date :………………….
 4.2  Age as at 14.01.2019 (The closing date of the application )
  Years : ……………………. Month : ………………… Days : …………………..
05.  5.1  Administrative District of Residency : …………………………………………………..
 5.2  Divisional Secretary’s  Division : ………………………………………………….…….
 5.3  Grama Niladhari Division : …………………………………………………..………..…
 5.4  Permanent Residency in the North -western Province as at  14.01.2019
 
  Years : ……………………. Month : ………………… Days : …………………..
06.  Educational  Qualifications  and Professional Qualifications (As Per No. 2 of the Notification)
(a) Details of the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level ) Examination
 Year appeared for the examination:……………………..
                Index No :……………………..
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01 06
02 07
03 08
04 09
05 10
(b) Details of the G.C.E. ( Advanced Level ) Examination
Year appeared for the examination:…………………..
               Index No. :…………………..
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
8
( c )    Professional Qualifications :
(State clearly about the courses that have been studied under 2.2 of the Notification)
If these details have not been mentioned  clearly and correctly the application will be rejected.
Institute course Studied duration Grade Certificate No. and 
date
07. Number of the receipt of examination :
Fees………………………………..Amount……………………………
Date : ……………………………
Divisional Secretariat where the receipt was issued : ………………………………
Please paste the receipt here firmly
08. Declaration of the Applicant
(A)   I certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. I agree to bear the loss resulting from filling this application incompletely or incorrectly. 
(B)    I know that I will be ineligible for this post prior to appointment and liable for  termination of appointment after 
getting the appointment, if it is found that this declaration is false.
    
 ……………………………  
 Signature of the applicant.
Date : …………
09. Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant 
(Strike out unnecessary words)
The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ an 
officer holding a Gazetted  post in the Police Service, or Staff Grade officer holding a permanent post in the 
public service whose monthly salary is above Rs. 32, 960/-  
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr/Mrs/Miss………………….………………. is known to me 
personally and he/ she has paid the examination fee and  he/she placed his/her signature before me on 
……………………………………..
Signature   : ………………………………..…
Name of the  Certifying Officer :……………………………………
Designation and Rubber Stamp :……………………………………
Date    :…...………………………………
12-522/1

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
9
oPen comPeTITIVe exAmInATIon foR  RecRuITmenT  To The PoST  of 
coLonIzATIon offIceR  -GRADe 111 of SuPeRVISoR y mAnAGemenT  ASSISTAnT
 TechnIcAL  SeRVIce cATeGoR y of The DePARTmenT  of PRoVIncIAL  LAnD              
commISSIoneR  of The 
noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVIncIAL  councIL  PubLIc SeRVIce – 2018
aPPLIca TIONS  are invited from the males and females who have the following qualifications and who are permanent 
residents of the North Western Province to be recruited to the Post of Colonization Officer -Grade 111 of Supervisory Man-
agement assistant Technical Service category of the department of Provincial Land commissioner of the North Western 
Provincial council Public Service.
    It is hereby announced that the above examination will be conducted by the North Western Provincial council 
Public Service commission in February, 2019 at an examination centre established in Kurunegala. North Western Provincial 
council Public Service commission reserves the right of postponing or cancelling the examination. 
01.	Educational	and	Professional	Qualifications:-
 1.1		 Educational	Qualifications:-
1.1. Should have passed 06 subjects in the same sitting with four credit passes including Sinhala/
Tamil/English, Science and Mathematics at the General Certificate of Education (ordinary Level) 
examination;
     and
 should have passed all subjects out of the subjects, chemistry, biology with agriculture or Physics 
in the same sitting at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination.
	 1.2		 Professional	Qualifications:-
i. The certificate of  two year Agriculture   Diploma issued by School of Agriculture Kundasale, 
Angunakolapelessa, Pelwehera, Labudoowa, Karapincha, Wariyapola, Bibila, Vavuniya and                   
anuradhapura;
      or
ii. Should have obtained the certificate of National Diploma in Technology  (Agriculture) issued by 
Technical college Hardy – ampara;
      or
iii.  Should have obtained the certificate of two year Agriculture   Diploma issued by Aquinas College; 
     or
iv.  Should have obtained the certificate of two year Agriculture   Diploma offered by an approved  gov-
ernment – affiliated Institute. 
02.		Other	Qualifications:-
 2.1 applicants should have excellent moral character.
 2.2 Every applicant should be mentally and physically fit to serve in any part of North  Western Province  
and to discharge the duties assigned to the post.
 2.3  should be citizens of Sri Lanka and should be permanent residents of the North Western Province during the 
preceding three years to the closing date of application. (Residency should be proved by a Certificate of Res-
idence issued by the Grama Niladari and counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.)
 2.4 age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years as at closing date of   application.
 2.5 all educational, professional, and other requirements shall be completed on or before the closing date of                   
application.
	 Note:	 
  any person who bears a priesthood in any religious sect is ineligible to appear for this examination.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
10
03.			Salary	Scale:
The monthly  salary scale applicable to this post according to the Salary Scale mN 3-2016 as per the schedule 1 
of the Public  administration circular No: 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 31,040 – 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 – 10 x 
730 – 10 x 750 – Rs. 57,550.
(However, salaries will be paid according to the schedule 11 of the said Circular until 01.01.2020.)
04.		Conditions	of	Service:
4.1  This post is permanent. The pension scheme applicable to this post will be subjected to a policy decision 
taken by the government in the future.
4.2  The appointees to this post will be subjected to probation period of (three) 03 years and will be confirmed 
at the end of the probation period, if his/her work and conduct is satisfactory, and if the appointee has 
passed the first Efficiency Bar, and if he/she has satisfied the other requirements needed to be confirmed 
in the service.
4.3  In case an officer is qualified for this service in another language medium other than a national language, 
shall acquire the specified official language proficiency during the period of probation.
4.4 The appointees shall acquire  the competency in the other official language/ languages other than the language 
that qualified for this post, during 05 years from the date of appointment, in terms of Public Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and other incidental circulars. 
4.5 Should acquire G.C.E. (O/L) credit level proficiency in English before exceeding 05 years in Grade 111.
4.6 The appointees shall be subjected to the Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
Procedural Rules of the North Western Province, Financial Regulations code of North Western Province, 
disciplinary Procedure code of North Western Province, departmental orders, Service minute of  North 
Western Provincial council Technical Service and other orders and regulations issued  and will be issued 
time to time by the government and the North Western Provincial council, in addition to the regulations 
and functions assigned by the Scheme of Recruitment and Promotion applicable to this post.
05.	Method	of	Recruitment:
5.1  Recruitment to all the existing vacancies will be made on the results of a written competitive examination 
conducted by the North Western Provincial council Public Service commission. 
5.2  equal number of applicants to the existing number of vacancies will be summoned to the interview that 
is held to check the qualifications, in accordance with the merit order of the total of both subjects of the 
applicants who have obtained 40% or more for each examination paper prescribed for the examination 
syllabus. Marks will not be given at the interview. Educational, professional, and other required basic 
qualifications and physical fitness will be checked at the interview.
06.	Written	Examination:
6.1  The applicants can apply for the written examination in Sinhala, Tamil or english medium and the they 
will not be allowed to change the medium later.
6.2  This examination will consist of two question papers.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
11
Question Paper Duration Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. Intelligence Quotient Test 01 hour 100 40%
2. Subject Related Technical 
Test (Multiple Choice Question Paper )
01 hour 100 40%
detailed Syllabus is given at the schedule 1.
07.	Examination	Fees:
a sum of rupees 600/- as the examination fee should be paid to the divisional Secretariat of the area of permanent 
residence of the candidate who resides in the North Western Province, to be credited to the Revenue Head  2003-02-13 
of North Western Provincial council and the receipt NWP uq 02  obtained from the Divisional Secretariat to be affixed 
at the appropriate cage  of the application. Other receipts or money orders will not be entertained except the receipts 
obtained so, from the Divisional Secretariat. (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt may be useful for future reference) It 
should be noted that the examination fee is non refundable under any circumstances and will not be allowed to transfer 
for any other examination.
08.	Method	of	Applying	:
8.1   applications should be prepared in a4 size paper using the both sides as per the specimen application 
given at the end of this notification. Duly filled applications should be sent under  registered post to reach                
“Secretary, North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Office               
complex, Kurunegala” on or before 14.01.2019. The words“Open Competitive Examination for Recruit-
ment to the Post of Colonization Officer -Grade 111 of Supervisory Management Assistant Technical 
Service category  of the department of Provincial Land commissioner of the North Western Provincial 
council Public Service – 2018”should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the 
application. 
8.2  The applications which do not comply with the specimen, not carry the receipt of examination fee paid before 
the due date, or late, unclear or incomplete will be rejected without any notice. Further it is responsibility of 
the applicant to check whether the prepared application complies with the specimen. The applicant should 
bear the liability for the losses due to incomplete applications. It would be useful to keep the photocopy of 
the completed application. The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged. 
8.3 attestation of the Signature of the applicant:-
The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ 
an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service, or Staff Grade officer holding a permanent post in 
the public service whose monthly salary is above Rs. 32, 960/-  
8.4  The closing date of applications is 14.01.2019.
09.  The applications which do not comply with the specimen or incomplete will be rejected. The issuance of an admission 
card for this examination does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications for this post. The originals 
of the documents to prove the qualifications should be produced at the interview. It is compulsory that all the applicants 
must fulfill all the relevant requirements on or before the closing date of applications.  

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
12
10.		Identity	of	the	Applicants	:
every applicant should prove his/her identity by a below mentioned document for every subject to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor of the examination hall. 
 I.   The National Identity card issued by the department of Persons Registration
II.  Valid passport
   Note:				applicants who fail to establish their identity at the examination hall will be considered as ineligible applicants.
11.  The application shall be completed cautiously with correct information. Such information shall not be allowed to 
amend in any circumstance. If a candidate is found  ineligible to appear for the examination according to the rules 
and regulations of this examination the candidature  of such applicant is liable to be cancelled before, during or after 
the examination or at any stage. If an applicant has furnished false information, he/she can be dismissed from the 
North Western Provincial council Public Service, at any stage. The issuance of an admission card for this competitive                                           
examination does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications for this examination.
12.	 Admission	Card:-
 On the presumption that only those who possess qualifications indicated in the gazette notification have forwarded 
their applications admission cards along with copies of the examination time table will be issued by the Secretary, 
North Western Provincial council Public Service commission to all applicants who have sent the duly completed 
applications with the receipts obtained after paying the examination fees, on or before the closing date of applications. 
Immediately after the admission cards are issued, a notification will be published in the official website in the North 
Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission (www.psc.nw.gov.lk) In case the admission for the examination 
is not received after 3 days of the said notification, it should be notified immediately to the “Secretary, North Western 
Provincial Council Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Office Complex, Kurunegala”, along with the 
following details. The admission card, in which the signature of the applicant is duly attested, should be produced to 
the examiner at the examination.
 (i).  Name of the examination
 (ii). Full name of the applicant
 (iii). National Identity card No:
 (iv). Address
 (v). Postal Registration Details and the date 
13.  North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking the final decision on conducting 
or not conducting this examination, selecting or not selecting the candidates, after the examination, and determining 
the number of vacancies to be filled. Further, the decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
Commission will be final and conclusive on the matters ,if any,  that not covered by this notification.
14.  If there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in Sinhala, 
Tamil or english, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
  by order of North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
 Padmini Kariyawasam, 
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala
05th december, 2018.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
13
Schedule 01 – Detailed Syllabus
01. Intelligence Quotient Test
This question Paper will be comprised of questions to test the logical thinking, analytical power and time management 
of the candidate.
02. Subject Related Technical Test
1.  Contribution of Agriculture for economic development of Sri Lanka
  a) Contribution of Agriculture for Gross Domestic Product
  b) Employment
  c) Export import condition of agriculture
 
2.  Knowledge on climatic zones in Sri Lanka
3.  Soil and plant nutrition
  a) Soil structure, texture, physical and chemical salinity and its effects on crop 
      cultivation
  b) Plant nutrition, soil /plant nutrition management
  c) Special facts on plant nutrition
4.  The importance of soil chemistry soil conversation and various methods of soil 
 conversation.
5.  Irrigational Systems and water management
  a) Irrigational Systems and their water management suitable for various crops
  b) Micro water management methods
  c) Water drainage and its importance
 6.  Farm mechanization
  a) Advantages and disadvantages of Farm mechanization
  b) Agriculture machinery used for land preparation
  c)  Agriculture machinery used for water supply and plant protection
  d) Operation and maintenance of the above machinery
7.  agriculture extension
  a) Strategies and methodologies of agriculture extension 
  b) Agriculture extension communication methods
8.  Tissue culture
  a) Knowledge on basic principles and past information of tissue culture
  b) Examples of uses/ applications of tissue culture
  c) Advantages and disadvantages of tissue culture
9.  Knowledge on plant quarantine
  a) Knowledge on plant quarantine regulations
  b) Plant quarantine methods  
10.  Plant conservation
  a) The importance of Plant conservation (plants /plant plasm)
  b)  Methods of Plant conservation (plants /plant plasm)

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
14
11.  Genes Technology
  a)The importance of DNA
  b) What is a gene? Its function
  c) Situations of using DNA Technology
  d) The ability to improve the plants through Gene Engineering Techniques.
12. Knowledge on colonization scheme and Mahaweli Scheme in Sri Lanka
 a)  Places where colonization schemes situated
 b)  Places belongs to Mahaweli Scheme
13. Knowledge on preparing land use plans
14.  Knowledge on maps related facts
 a)  anemometer, road tracer, dumpy level, Theodolite
 b)  Details on 1: 50, 0000 – 1: 10,000 Inch Map and Final Village Plan
15.  Knowledge on the existing lands and related departments and institutes in Sri Lanka
 a)  Varieties of lands – Crown lands
   Private lands
   Lands subject to service
16.  Knowledge on land development and distribution
 a)  Knowledge on currently   executed National Programmes on land development 
        and  distribution
 Identifying individuals who do not own lands
  Bimsawiya Programme
 One Hundred Thousand Plots of Lands Programme
17.  Knowledge on documents used to dispose of lands since ancient kings era   to date.
  a) Grant (Sannasa), fief (Nindagam)
  b) Lease, Swarnabhumi, Jaya Bhumi, Rathna Bhumi, Ranbima
specimen application
        
 ( For office use only)
open competitive examination for Recruitment to the Post of 
Colonization	Officer	-Grade	111	of	Supervisory	Management	Assistant	Technical	Service		
category  of the Department of Provincial Land commissioner of 
the north Western Provincial council Public Service – 2018
        Language Medium of Examination (Please mark √ inside the appropriate cage)
       Sinhala   Tamil   english
01.	 1.1 Name with Initials (Sinhala / Tamil) : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :…………………….…………
………………………………………………………………………………………
1.2  Name with Initials ( English Block Letters) : Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………………….
………………………………………………………………………………………
1.3  Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :………………………………………………………..
………………………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
15
1.4 Full Name (English Block Letters) : Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………………..
………………………………………………………………………………………
1.5  National Identity card No. : 
02.	 2.1  Permanent Address ( Sinhala / Tamil ) :……………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………
2.2  Permanent Address (English Block Letters) : ……………………………………...
………………………………………………………………………………………
2.3  Address to which the admission should be sent :…………………………………..
………………………………………………………………………………………
2.4  Telephone Number : ……………………………………………
03.	 3.1  Gender :   Female – F  male – m
 3.2  date of birth:   year:       month:  date:  
3.3       age as at 14.01.2019: years :           months:                  days :   
   
04.	    4.1  Administrative District of Residency: ……………………………………..………
4.2  Divisional Secretary’s  Division : ………………………………………….………
4.3  Grama Niladhari Division : ………………………………………………….…….
4.4  Permanent Residency in the North-western Province as at 14.01.2019
         Years : ……………………. Months : ………………    Days : 
05. Educational  Qualifications  and Professional Qualifications :
     5.1  Details of the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level ) Examination:
 Year and Month of the Examination:……………………..
               Index No. :……………………..
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01 06
02 07
03 08
04 09
05 10
5.2 Details of the G.C.E. ( Advanced Level ) Examination
Year appeared for the Examination:…………………..
Index No :…………………..
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
16
5.3    Professional Qualifications :
Institute course Studied duration Grade Certificate No. and 
date
06.		Details	of	the	Payment	Receipt	of	Examination	Fees	:
 
6.1  Receipt Number …………………………  Amount……………………………
Date : ……………………………
Divisional Secretariat where the receipt was issued: …………………………
Please paste the receipt here firmly
07.		Declaration	of	the	Applicant	:
(A) I certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge and belief. I agree to bear the loss resulting from filling this application incompletely or incor-
rectly. 
(B) I know that I will be ineligible for this post prior to appointment and liable for termination of appointment     
       after getting the appointment, if it is found that this declaration is false.
         ………………………
                   Signature of the applicant.
               Date : ………………………
08.   Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant 
(Strike out unnecessary words)
The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice of Peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ an officer holding a gazetted post 
in the Police Service, or Staff Grade officer holding a permanent post in the public service whose monthly salary is above 
Rs. 32, 960/-  
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss.…………………………………… is known to me personally and he / 
she placed his / her signature before me on ……………………………………..
Signature   : ……………………………………
Name of the Certifying Officer :………………………………….…
Designation and Rubber Stamp :…………………………………….
Date    :………………………….…………
12-522/2

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
17
PRoVIncIAL  councIL  PubLIc SeRVIce commISSIon – noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVInce
RecRuITmenT  To The PoST  of LeGAL  offIceR  -GRADe III 
of The noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVIncIAL  councIL  PubLIc SeRVIce – 2018 ( oPen )
aPPLIca TIONS  are invited from the males and females who have the qualifications mentioned in this notification and who 
are permanent residents of the North Western Province to be recruited to the Post of Legal Officer -Grade III of Executive 
Service category of the municipal council of Kurunegala of the North Western Provincial council Public Service.
01.	Educational	Qualifications	/Professional	Qualifications:-
 1.1   Educational Qualifications:-
candidate should possess  a  LLb degree from a  university recognized by the University Grant commis-
sion and should have taken oaths as an Attorney-at-Law at Supreme Court or should  have passed the Final 
Year Examination of College of Law and should have taken oaths as an Attorney-at-Law at Supreme Court.
 
 1.2    experience:-
Minimum of three years practicing professional experience regarding courts affairs (This should be proved 
by a certificate obtained from a Senior Attorney-at-Law who is in the active Courts Service for more than 
15 years).
02.	Physical	Fitness:
 Every applicant should be mentally and physically fit to serve in any part of North Western Province and to discharge 
the duties assigned to the post. 
	03.	Other	Qualifications:
 I. Applicants who are applying for this post should be citizens of Sri Lanka and should be permanent residents of 
the territory of the North Western Provincial Council, during the preceding five (05) years to the closing date of 
application. 
  (Residency should be proved by a Certificate of Residence issued by the Grama Niladari and counter signed by 
the Divisional Secretary.)
 II. applicants should have excellent moral character and should be in good health condition.
 III. all educational, professional and other requirements shall be completed by the closing date of application and 
the certificates should have been obtained on or before that date.
 IV . age should be not less than 25 years and not more than 35 years as at closing date of   application.
            (This age limit is not applicable to the officers who are already employed in Public/ Provincial Public Service.)
04.	Salary	Scale:-
as per SL 1-2016 in  Schedule I of the Public  administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016,  the monthly  
salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615 – 10x 1335 – 8x 1630 – 17x 2170 –Rs. 110,895.
 (However, salaries will be paid according to the Schedule II of the said circular until 01.01.2020.)

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
18
05.		Conditions	of	Service:
	 I. This post is permanent. The pension scheme applicable to this post will be subjected to a policy decision taken 
by the Government in the future.
 II. The appointees to this post will be subjected to probation period of 03 (three) years and will be confirmed at the 
end of the probation period, if his/her work and conduct is satisfactory, and if the appointee has passed the First 
Efficiency Bar, and if he/she has satisfied the other requirements needed to be confirmed in the service.
 III. The appointees shall acquire  the competency in the other official language/ languages other than the language 
that qualified for this post, during 05 years from the date of appointment, in terms of Public Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and other incidental circulars.
 IV . In case an officer is qualified for this service in another language medium other than a national language, shall 
acquire the specified official language proficiency during the period of probation.
 V . The appointees shall be subjected to the provisions of  establishment code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, Procedural Rules of the North Western Provincial Council, Financial Regulations,  Financial Regulations 
code of North Western Province, disciplinary Procedure code of North Western Province, departmental orders, 
and other orders and regulations issued  by the Government and the North Western Province Provincial council, 
in addition to the regulations and functions assigned by the Scheme of Recruitment /Promotion applicable to 
this post.
06.		Method	of	Recruitment:
The applicants who have fulfilled all the required qualifications specified in this notification will be subjected to a 
structured interview by a panel of interviewers appointed by the North Western Provincial council Public Service 
Commission .The applicants should obtain 60% marks to pass at the structured interview. The applicant who has 
secured highest marks from the structured interview will be recruited. 
07.		Structured	Interview	:
  7.1  An interview will be held to scrutinize the qualifications and to give marks of the structured interview.
  7.2  Marking procedure for the structured interview shall be based upon the following :
Fields Maximum 
Marks
Additional	Educational	Qualifications	
• LLb degree obtained from a recognized university
- For a First Class Pass               – 20 Marks
- For a Second  Class Upper     – 20 Marks
- For a Second Class Lower      – 10 Marks
For a First Class Pass in the Final Year at the Law College      – 15 Marks                        
For a Second  Class Pass in the Final Year at the Law College – 10 Marks                        
note:-
10 Marks shall be given only if the Final Examination is passed with honours. ( Marks will be  given 
for the maximum qualification – Only for one out of Degree or Law College Qualification )
20

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
19
Fields Maximum 
Marks
Additional	professional	Qualifications
• For a Post Graduate Diploma in the relevant field not less than one year by a recognized 
institution or Post Graduate  Legal Diploma ( 05 Marks for each Diploma)
• For a Diploma in the relevant field not less than 06 Months/720 Hours by a recognized           
institution. ( 03 Marks for each Diploma )
• For a Certificate Course in the relevant field not less than 03 months/ 360 Hours by a               
recognized institution. ( 02 Marks for each Diploma )
15
Additional experience
experience as an attorney-at- Law in the public service or private sector
- More than six months and less than one year -02 Marks
- Maximum 30 marks -  05 marks for each year
  (Excluding the three years practicing period needed as a basic   qualification  to be an Attorney-   
at –Law.)
- (Additional Experience should be certified by a certificate obtained from an Attorney- at –Law 
or a Judge who completed not less than  20 years service period.) 
30
computer Literacy
For studying Information Technology as a main subject for a degree offered by a university recognized 
by the University Grant commission.
                                                                                                                                              ( Marks 15)
For a diploma course in Information Technology, not less than 01 year
Or 1500 hours, offered by a recognized government institution.                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                  ( Marks 10)
 
For a Certificate Course in Information Technology offered by a recognized government institution.       
                                                                                                  - 06 Months/  720 hours - (Marks -  07)                                                                                      
                                                                                                   - 03 Months/  360 hours - (Marks – 05)                                                   
15
Proficiency in English Language
Post Graduate Degree/Degree/Post Graduate LLB Degree studied in English Medium                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                 ( Marks – 15)
For a Diploma Course of English offered by a university recognized by the University Grant                          
Commission or a recognized government institution.
( 01 year or 1500 hours)                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                               ( Marks - 10)
For a Certificate Course of English offered by a university recognized by the University Grant                     
Commission or recognized government institution.       
                                                                                                     - 06 Months/ 720 hours -  (Marks -  07)                                                                                      
                                                                                                    - 03 Months/  360 hours – (Marks – 05)                                                  
15
Performance at the interview 05
                                  Total Marks 100

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
20
08.	Examination	Fees:
a sum of rupees 1200/- as the examination fee should be paid to the divisional Secretariat of the area of permanent residence 
of the candidate who resides in the North Western Province, to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of North Western 
Provincial Council and the receipt NWP (uq )/2 obtained from the Divisional Secretariat to be affixed to the application. Other 
receipts or money orders will not be entertained except the receipts obtained so, from the Divisional Secretariat. (Retaining 
a photocopy of the receipt may be useful for future reference) It should be noted that the examination fee is nonrefundable 
under any circumstances.
09.	Method	of	Applying	:
 9.1  applications should be prepared in a4 size paper using the both sides as per the specimen application given at the 
end of this notification. Duly filled applications should be sent under  registered post to reach “Secretary, North 
Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Office Complex, Kurunegala” on or 
before 14.01.2019. “Recruitment to the Post of Legal Officer -Grade 111 of the North Western Provincial Council 
Public Service – 2018”should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
 9.2 attestation of the Signature of the applicant:
  The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice 
of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ or Staff  Grade 
officer holding a permanent post in the public service whose monthly salary is above Rs. 32, 960/-  
 9.3 The applicants who are already employed in the permanent Public/Provincial council Public Service should 
forward their applications through their respective Heads of the department/ Institution.
 9.4 The applications which do not comply with the specimen, not carry the receipt of examination  fee paid before 
the due date, or late, unclear or incomplete will be rejected without any notice. Further it is responsibility of the 
applicant to check whether the prepared application complies with the specimen. The applicant should bear the 
liability for the losses due to incomplete applications. It would be useful to keep the photocopy of the completed 
application. The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged. 
 9.5  The closing date of applications is 14.01.2019.
10.  The applications which do not comply with the specimen will be rejected. The originals of the documents to prove the 
qualifications should be produced at the structured interview. It is compulsory that all the applicants must have fulfilled 
all the relevant requirements on or before the closing date of applications.  
11.  If a candidate is found ineligible at any stage prior to appointment the candidature of such applicant is liable to be 
cancelled. In case of such false information or international omission of any accurate information is found after                     
recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss from the Service.
12.  The decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission will be final and conclusive on the 
matters of this notification or any matter that may not cover by this notification. Further, any matter not provided for 
in this notification shall be determined by the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission.
13.  North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking the final decision on                    
conducting or not conducting this structured interview, selecting or not selecting the candidates after conducting the 
interview, and determining the number of vacancies to be filled. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
21
14.  If there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in Sinhala, 
Tamil or english, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
     by order of North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
 Padmini Kariyawasam, 
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial council Public Service commission.
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala,
05th december, 2018.
          ( For office use only)
SPecImeN  aPPLIcaTION
  
North Western Provincial council Public Service commission
Recruitment	to	the	Post	of	Legal	Officer	-Grade	111	of	the	
north Western Provincial council Public Service – 2018 ( open)
         
01.     1.1 Name with Initials (Sinhala / Tamil) : …………………………………........................
    ……………………………………………………………………………….…………
  1.2 Name with Initials ( English Block Letters) :  …………………………………………
    ………………………………………………………………………………………….
  1.3  Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :……………………………………………………………
    …………………………………………………………………………………………
  1.4  Full Name (English Block Letters) :  ………………………………………………….
    …………………………………………………………………………………………
  1.5  National Identity card No. :  
02.   2.1  Permanent Address : …………………………………………………………………..
    2.2  Telephone Number : Personal ……………………   Official ...………………………
03.    Gender (Please mark √ inside the appropriate cage)
      Female –     male – 
 04.  Date of Birth :    Year:……………  Month :…………… Date :………………….
  4.1  age as at 14.01.2019.   
    y ears :      months:     days :

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
22
05.  Permanent Residency in the North-western Province as at 14.01.2019.
  Years : ……………………. Month : ………………… Days : …………………..
06.   Qualifications:-
  6.1  Educational  Qualifications / Professional Qualifications:-……………………….
 
  6.2 Experience :- ………………………………………………………………………
 
  6.3 Additional Educational  Qualifications :- …………………………………………
 
  6.4 Additional Professional  Qualifications :- …………………………………………
 
  6.5  Additional Experience :-  ………………………………….………………………
 
  6.6  Computer Literacy: - ………………………………………………………………
 
  6.7 english Language Proficiency :- ……………………………………………….…
07.    details of the Payment Receipt of examination Fees 
  7.1 Receipt Number: …………………        Amount:………………    Date : ……………………………
   Divisional Secretariat where the receipt was issued: ………………………………
Please paste the receipt here firmly
  
08.      declaration of the applicant :
   I, ………………………………………, certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and 
accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.  I know that I will be ineligible for this post and disciplinary actions can 
be taken against me, if it is found that the information furnished by me is false.
   ……………………………
   Signature of the applicant.
Date : ………………
Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant :
(Strike out unnecessary words)
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr/Mrs/Miss……………………………………     is known to me personally and he/
she placed his / her signature before me on ……………………………………..
 Name of the Certifying Officer :………………………………………
Signature    : ……………………………………..
Designation and Rubber Stamp :………………………………………
(The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice of Peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ or  Staff Grade officer holding a 
permanent post in the public service whose monthly salary is above Rs. 32, 960/-)

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
23
Recommendation of the head of Department for the applicants who are currently serving in the Public Service or 
Provincial Public Service
(Strike out unnecessary words)
I hereby certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………………………is an employee who holds 
a permanent post  in this department and he/she can be released from the service if he/she is selected for this post and the 
particulars given in the application are consistent with the documents in this department and he/she is suitable for this post 
according to the regulations of this notification.
       
 …………………………………  
 Signature of the Head of department
 (Place the official Stamp).
12-522/3
oPen comPeTITIVe exAmInATIon foR  RecRuITmenT  To The PoST  of 
AGRIcuLTuRe InSTRucT oR - GRADe 111 of The 
TechnIcAL  SeRVIce of SRI  LAnkA of The 
noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVIncIAL  councIL  PubLIc SeRVIce – 2018
aPPLIca TIONS  are invited from the males and females who have the following qualifications and who are permanent 
residents of the North Western Province to be recruited to the Post of Agriculture Instructor -Grade 111 of the Technical 
Service of Sri Lanka of the north Western Provincial council Public Service.
     It is hereby announced that the above examination will be conducted by the North Western Provincial council 
Public Service commission in February, 2019 at an examination centre established in Kurunegala. North Western Provincial 
council Public Service commission reserves the right of postponing or cancelling the examination. 
01.		Educational	and	Professional	Qualifications:-
	 1.1		 Educational	Qualifications:
  Should have passed 06 subjects in the same sitting with four credit passes including one of the languages Sinhala/
Tamil/English, Science and Mathematics at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination,
     
    and
  should have passed three science subjects including two subjects from agriculture, biology, Physics, chemistry, 
in the same sitting at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination. (Excluding common 
General Test)
 1.2		 Professional	Qualifications:
 i. The certificate of  two year agriculture   diploma issued by School of agriculture Kundasale,                                 
Angunakolapelessa, Pelwehera, Labudoowa, Wariyapola, Bibila, Vavuniya and Anuradhapura;
    Or
 ii. Should have obtained the certificate of Agriculture Diploma issued by Technical College Hardy – 
ampara;    
    Or
 iii.  Should have obtained the certificate of two year Agriculture   Diploma issued by Aquinas College;
    Or

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
24
 iv.  Should have obtained the certificate of two year Agriculture   Diploma offered by an approved government 
Institute;
       Or
 v. Should have obtained National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) 06 level related to the field of career.
02.		Other	Qualifications:
 
 2.1 applicants should have excellent moral character.
 2.2 Every applicant should be mentally and physically fit to serve in any part of North Western Province and to 
discharge the duties assigned to the post.
 2.3  should be citizens of Sri Lanka and should be permanent residents of the North Western Province during the 
preceding three years to the closing date of application. (Residency should be proved by a Certificate of Residence 
issued by the Grama  Niladari and counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.)
 2.4 age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years as at closing date of  application.
 2.5 all educational, professional, and other requirements shall be completed on or before  the closing date of                     
application.
  
Note:		
  any person who bears priesthood in any Religious Sect is ineligible to appear for this examination.
03.		Salary	Scale:
The monthly  salary scale applicable to this post according to the Salary Scale mN 3-2016 as per the schedule 
1 of the Public  administration circular No: 03/2016 dated 25-02-2016 is Rs. 31,040 – 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 –                                    
10 x 730 – 10 x 750 – 57,550/=
(However, salaries will be paid according to the schedule 11 of the said circular until 01-01-2020.)
04.		Conditions	of	Service:
 4.1  This post is permanent. The pension scheme applicable to this post will be subjected to a policy decision 
taken by the government in the future.
 4.2  The appointees to this post will be subjected to probation period of (three) 03 years and will be confirmed at 
the end of the probation period, if his/her work and conduct is satisfactory, and if the appointee has passed 
the first Efficiency Bar, and if he/she has satisfied the other requirements needed to be confirmed in the 
service.
 4.3  In case an officer is qualified for this service in another language medium other than a national language, 
shall acquire the specified official language proficiency during the period of probation.
 4.4 The appointees shall acquire  the competency in the other official language/ languages other than the language 
that qualified for this post, during 05 years from the date of appointment, in terms of Public Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and other incidental circulars. 
 4.5  Should acquire G.C.E. (O/L) credit level proficiency in English before exceeding 05 years in Grade 111.
 4.6 The appointees shall be liable to the regulations of  establishment code of democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka, Procedural Rules of the North Western Province, Financial Regulations Code and Discipli -
nary Procedure code of  North Western Province, departmental orders, Service minute of  North Western                  
Provincial council Technical Service, and other orders and regulations issued  and will be issued time to time 
by the government and the North Western Provincial council, in addition to the regulations and functions 
assigned by the Scheme of Recruitment and Promotion applicable to this post.

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
25
05.		Method	of	Recruitment:
 
 5.1  Recruitment will be made on the results of a written competitive examination conducted by the North Western 
Provincial council Public Service commission. 
 5.2  equal number of applicants to the existing number of vacancies will be summoned to the interview that is held 
to check the qualifications, in accordance with the merit order of the total of both subjects of the applicants who 
have obtained 40% or more for each examination paper prescribed for the examination syllabus. Marks will not 
be given at the interview. Educational, professional, and other required basic qualifications and physical fitness 
will be checked at the interview.
 5.3 70% of existing vacancies will be filled by the results of open competitive examination.
 5.4 The 30% to be recruited from the Limited Competitive Examination too will be fulfilled by this open competitive 
examination only if there are not enough internal applicants who have the required basic qualifications in the 
department / ministry.
06.	Written	Examination:-
 6.1  The applicants can apply for the written examination in Sinhala, Tamil or english medium and they will not be 
allowed to change the medium later.
 6.2  This examination will consist of two question papers.
Question Paper Duration Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. Intelligence Quotient Test 01 hour 100 40%
2. Subject Related Technical Test 03 hours 100 40%
  detailed Syllabus is given at the schedule 1.
07.		Examination	Fees:
  a  sum of Rupees 600/- asthe examination fee should be paid to the divisional Secretariat of the area of permanent 
residence of the candidate who resides in the North Western Province, to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-
02-13 of North Western Provincial Council and the receipt NWP (uq)/2 obtained from the Divisional Secretariat 
to be affixed at the appropriate cage of the application. Other receipts or money orders will not be entertained 
except the receipts obtained so, from the Divisional Secretariat. (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt may be 
useful for future reference) It should be noted that the examination fee is nonrefundable under any circumstances 
and will not be allowed to transfer for any other examination.
08.		Method	of	Applying	:
 8.1  applications should be prepared in a4 size paper using the both sides as per the specimen application given at the 
end of this notification. Duly filled applications should be sent under registered post to reach “Secretary, north 
Western	Provincial	Council	Public	Service	Commission,	Provincial	Council	Office	Complex,	Kurunegala”	
on or before 14.01.2019. The words “open competitive examination for Recruitment to the Post of Agricul-
ture Instructor -Grade 111 of the Technical Service of Sri Lanka  of the north Western Provincial council 
Public Service – 2018” should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application. 

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
26
 8.2  The applications which do not comply with the specimen, not carry the receipt of examination fee paid before 
the due date, or late, unclear or incomplete will be rejected without any notice. Further it is responsibility of the 
applicant to check whether the prepared application complies with the specimen. The applicant should bear the 
liability for the losses due to incomplete applications. It would be useful to keep the photocopy of the completed 
application. The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged. 
 8.3 attestation of the Signature of the applicant:
  The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned  Officer in the Armed Forces/ an 
officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service, or Staff  Grade officer holding a permanent post in the 
public service whose monthly salary is above Rs. 32, 960/-  
 8.4  The closing date of applications is 14.01.2019.
09.  The applications which do not comply with the specimen or incomplete will be rejected. The issuance of an admission 
card for this examination does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications for this post. The originals 
of the documents to prove the qualifications should be produced at the interview. It is compulsory that all the applicants 
must fulfill all the relevant requirements on or before the closing date of applications.  
10.		 Identity	of	the	Applicants:-
 every applicant should prove his/her identity by a below mentioned document for every subject to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor of the examination hall. 
   i.     The National Identity card issued by the department of Persons Registration,
   ii.    Valid passport.
  	 	Note:–   applicants who fail to establish their identity at the examination hall will be considered as ineligible applicants.
11.   The application shall be completed cautiously with correct information. That information shall not be allowed to amend in 
any circumstance. If a candidate is found  ineligible to appear for the examination according to the rules and regulations 
of this examination the candidature  of such applicant is liable to be cancelled before, during or after the examination or 
at any stage. If an applicant has furnished false information, he/she can be dismissed from the North Western Provincial 
council Public Service, at any stage. The issuance of an admission card for this competitive examination does not mean 
that he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications for this post.
12.	 Admission	Card:-
 On the presumption that only those who possess qualifications indicated in the Gazette Notification have forwarded their 
applications, admission cards along with copies of the examination time table will be issued by the Secretary, North 
Western Provincial council Public Service commission to all applicants who have sent the duly completed applications 
with the receipts obtained after paying the examination fees, on or before the closing date of applications.Immediate -
ly after the admission cards are issued, a notification will be published  in the official website in the North Western                  
Provincial Council Public Service Commission (www. psc. nw.gov.lk) In case the admission for the examination is not 
received after 3 days of the publication of said notification, it should be notified immediately to the “Secretary, North 
Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission, Provincial Council Office Complex, Kurunegala”, along with 
the following details. The admission card, in which the signature of the applicant is duly attested, should be produced 
to the examiner at the examination.
 i. Name of the examination.
 ii. Full name of the applicant.
 iii. National Identity card No.

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
27
 iv. address.
 v. Postal Registration details  and the date .
13.  North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking the final decision on conduct-
ing or not conducting this examination, selecting or not selecting the candidates, after the examination, and determining 
the number of vacancies to be filled. Further, the decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
Commission will be final and conclusive on the matters ,if any,  that not covered by this notification.
14.  If there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in Sinhala, 
Tamil or english, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
   by order of North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
 Padmini Kariyawasam, 
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala
05th december, 2018.
Schedule 01 – Detailed Syllabus
01.  Intelligence Quotient Test
This question Paper will be comprised of Objective type questions and multiple choice questions to test the logical 
thinking, analytical power, and decision making of the candidate.
02.  Subject Related Technical Test
1.  Contribution of Agriculture for economic development of Sri Lanka
 (a)  contribution of agriculture for Gross domestic Product
 (b)  employment
 (c)  The position of agriculture in exportation and importation
2.  Knowledge on climatic zones in Sri Lanka
3. Soil and plant Nutrition
 (a)  Soil structure, texture, physical and chemical salinity and its effects on crop cultivation
 (b)  Plant nutrition, soil /plant nutrition management
 (c)  Special facts on plant nutrition
4. Paddy Production
 (a)  Soil and climatic needs
 (b)  Varieties
 (c)  Land Preparation and Nursery management
 (d)  Pests and disease control
 (e)  Fertilizer application  
 (f)  Water management
 (g)  Harvesting and post harvesting methods
 (h)  Seed paddy Production

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
28
5. Other Field crop Production
 (a) big onion, chillies , Potatoes,maize, and other varieties of crops, soil and 
  climatic needs and planting activities, Production of quality seeds, Storing and 
  marketing, Post-harvest technology, presenting for the market
6. Vegetable production
 (a)  Vegetable Nursery management
 (b)  Propagation of Vegetables and planting activities, harvesting and preparation
7. Fruits
 (a)  Propagation of fruits and planting activities, harvesting and preparation
8.  Protection of crops
 (a)  Identification of main crop diseases and pests, and methods to control
 (b)  Weeding and Weeding methods
 (c)  Protection methods to follow in using pesticides
9.   Soil chemistry -The importance of soil conversation and various methods of soil conversation.
10.  Irrigational Systems and water management
 (a)  Irrigational Systems and their water management suitable for various crops
 ( b) micro water management methods
 ( c)  Water drainage and its importance
 11. Farm mechanization
 ( a)  Advantages and disadvantages of Farm mechanization
 (b)  Agriculture machinery used for land preparation
 ( c)  Agriculture machinery used for water supply and plant protection
 (d)  Operation and maintenance of the above machinery
12. bee Keeping
 (a)  economical importance 
 (b)  Starting of bee boxes and maintenance
 (c) Harvesting and preparation for the market 
13.  Flowering plants cultivation and landscaping 
 ( a)  economical importance
 ( b)  Landscaping methods
 ( c)  Cut flowers for the market and preparation for the market
 ( d)  Production of ornamental plants for the market

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
29
14. cultivation of defence crops
 ( a)  Importance
 ( b)  Planning
 ( c) Selection of crops, watering and Fertilizer application
 (d)  maintenance and preparation of harvest
15. animal Husbandry
 (a)  The importance of Poultry Production and dairy farm Industry 
 (b)  maintain the said products under Integrated Farm management
16. agriculture extension
 (a)  Strategies and methodologies of agriculture extension 
 (b)  agriculture extension communication methods  
specimen application
          
(For office use only)
open competitive examination for Recruitment to the Post of 
Agriculture Instructor -Grade 111 of the Technical Service of Sri Lanka of the 
north Western Provincial council Public Service – 2018
        Language Medium of Examination (Please mark √ inside the appropriate cage)
                    Sinhala       Tamil   english
01.	 1.1  Name with Initials (Sinhala / Tamil) : Mr/Mrs/Miss…………………………….…
………………………………………………………………………………………
1.2  Name with initials ( English Block Letters) : Mr/Mrs/Miss ……………….………
………………………………………………………………………………………
1.3  Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :…………………………………………………….….
………………………………………………………………………………………
1.4  Full Name (English Block Letters) : Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………………………..
………………………………………………………………………………………
1.5  National Identity card No :  
02.	 2.1  Permanent Address ( Sinhala / Tamil )  : …………………………………………..
………………………………………………………………………………………
2.2  Permanent Address (English Block Letters) : ……………………………………...
………………………………………………………………………………………
2.3  Address to which the admission should be sent : ………………………………….
………………………………………………………………………………………
2.4 Telephone Number   : …………………………………………

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
30
03.	 3.1  Gender :   Female – F  male – m
 3.2  date of birth:   year:       month:  date:  
3.3 age as at 14.01.2019:  years      months            days:   
         
04.	 4.1  Administrative District of Residency: ……………………………………..………
4.2  Divisional Secretary’s  Division : ………………………………………….………
4.3  Grama Niladhari Division : ………………………………………………….…….
4.4  Permanent Residency in the North western Province as at  14.01.2019
 Years : ……………………. Months : ………………… Days : 
05. Educational  Qualifications  and Professional Qualifications :
5.1  Details of the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level ) Examination :
 Year and Month of the examination:……………………..
Index No. :……………………..
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01 06
02 07
03 08
04 09
05 10
5.2 Details of the G.C.E. ( Advanced Level ) Examination
Year appeared for the examination:…………………..
Index No. :…………………..
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
5.3  Professional Qualifications :
Institute Course Studied Duration Grade Certificate No. and Date

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
31
06.  details of the Payment Receipt of examination Fees 
6.1  Receipt Number :……………………………   Amount :……………………………
Date : ……………………………
Divisional Secretariat where the receipt was issued : ………………………………
Please paste the receipt here firmly
07.  Declaration of the Applicant
(A)  I certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge and belief. I agree to bear the loss resulting from filling this application incompletely or                  
incorrectly. 
(B)   I know that I will be ineligible for this post prior to appointment and liable for termination of appointment 
after getting the appointment, if it is found that this declaration is false.
    
 …………………………..
 Signature of the applicant.
Date : ………………… 
           
08. Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant 
(Strike out unnecessary words)
The signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice of Peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ or Staff Grade officer holding a 
permanent post in the public service whose monthly salary is above Rs. 32, 960/- 
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr/Mrs/Miss………………………….………… is known to me personally and               
he / she placed his / her signature before me on ……………………………………..
Signature   : ……………………..………………
Name of the Certifying Officer :…………………….………………..
Designation and Rubber Stamp :………………………………………
Date    :………………………………………
12-522/4

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
32
oPen comPeTITIVe exAmInATIon foR  The RecRuITmenT  of GRADuATeS  foR The    
VAcAncIeS  of The cLASS  3 GRADe I (A) of The SRI  LAnkA TeAcheRS ’ SeRVIce                                          
exISTInG  In The PRoVIncIAL  councIL  SchooLS  of 
The noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVInce 
on DISTRIcT  bASIS  – 2018 
aPPLIca TIONS  are hereby invited from the permanent residents of the North Western Province (Male / Female) who have 
obtained required qualifications as per this notification for recruitment on district basis to the posts of the Class 3 Grade I 
(A) of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service according to the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service of the North Western 
Provincial Public Service to fill the vacancies existing in the North Western Provincial Council schools.
01. applicants from other provinces are also allowed to apply for the following special subjects in Tamil medium. 
         Subject no.  Subject
  3  mathematics
  4  Science
  10  drawing arts
  15  Information Technology 
  16  Health and Physical education 
  
02. Graduates will be recruited on district basis for Sinhala, Tamil and english medium subjects and the priority will be 
given to the permanent residents of the respective districts. The residents of the Kurunegala district should apply for 
the vacancies existing in Kurunegala district and the residents of the Puttlam district should apply for the vacancies 
existing in Puttlam district. In the event of there are no adequate number of qualified candidates from a District to fill 
the vacancies of that particular district, those vacancies will be filled from the qualified candidates of the other district. 
 The applicants from other provinces will be considered to fill the Tamil medium special subjects vacancies only in the 
event of absence of qualified candidates from Kurunegala and Puttlam districts.
03. The number of appointees will be decided in accordance with the available provisions and number of vacancies. The 
available number of vacancies in each district in Sinhala, Tamil and english medium are given in the schedule. 
04. Salary	scale:	
Salary scale applicable to this post according to Ge 1-2016 of the Schedule I of the Public administration circular 
no. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 27740 – 6x300 – 7x380 – 2x445 – 33090/-. (Salary will be paid according to the 
Schedule II until 01.01.2020)
05. Educational	and	Other	Qualifications: 
5.1  Educational Qualifications:
I. Should have obtained a degree in any subject according to the Schedule relating to the special subject 
areas recognized for teaching from a University or degree awarding Institute recognized by the Uni-
versity Grants Commission.  This degree should be effective before the closing date of applications. 
    and
II. Should have passed G.c.e. Ordinary Level examination with passes for Sinhala / Tamil Language 
and mathematics. 
Very Important :- (Should be considered when filling the applications)
• Applicants should be mindful of the subjects which can be applied according to the subject of the 
respective degrees. 
• Applicants are allowed to apply for teaching vacancies only according to the main subject / subjects 
of the degree. 

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
33
• Maximum number of subjects that can be applied is 3. Shall be mentioned according to the order of 
preference.
• Applicants will not be allowed to change the applied subjects at a later stage under any circumstances. 
5.2 Physical and Mental Fitness:
Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to perform duties as a teacher. 
5.3 Age:
age should be not less than 21 years and not more than 40 years as at closing date of applications. 
 
5.4   Other Qualifications:
 I. Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 II. Should have an excellent moral character and good physical fitness. 
 III. Should be able to serve in any area of the North Western Province. 
 IV . applicants should be permanent residents of the territory of the North Western Provincial council 
for a period not less than three (03) years preceding to the closing date of applications. (Residency 
should be proved by a Residence Certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari and counter signed by 
the Divisional Secretary)
applicants from other provinces who have applied under paragraph I for Tamil medium special 
subjects should submit a residence certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari and counter signed by 
the divisional Secretary of the area of residence, at the interview. 
06.   Conditions	of	Service:
 I. Selected graduate applicants will be appointed to the posts of Class 3 Grade I (A) of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service subject to the general regulations governing the appointments to the public / provincial public service, 
conditions stipulated by the North Western Provincial Teachers’ Service Minute and to the amendments to same 
which have been made already or will be made in future.
 II. This post is permanent. Appointees will be subjected to a policy decision taken by the Government with regard 
to the applicable pension scheme. 
 III. appointees will be subjected to a probation period of 03 years. 
 IV . Promotions will be given in accordance with the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service Minute of the North Western 
Provincial Teachers’ Service Minute of the North Western Provincial public service. 
 V . The Second Language competency level applicable to the post according to the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and its amendments, should be obtained within five (05) years from the date of 
appointment.
 VI. Appointees who are permanent residents of the North Western Province should serve at least six (06) years 
in the district of initial appointment and it the appointees who are permanent residents of the other provinces 
should serve at least ten (10) years in the District of initial appointment. 
 VII. In the event of the school of initial appointment is not a difficult or very difficult school, the appointees are 
bound to serve in a difficult or very difficult school for a period of at least 5 years at any time during the period 
of service.  

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
34
07.   Recruitment
 
 7.1  Method of Recruitment:
  applicants will be appointed on district basis. Residents of the Kurunegala district will be appointed for the                   
vacancies existing in Kurunegala district and the residents of the Puttlam district will be appointed for the 
vacancies existing in Puttlam district.  
  The applicants from other provinces will be considered to fill the Tamil medium special subjects vacancies only 
in the event of absence of qualified candidates from Kurunegala and Puttlam Districts. 
  a  written examination will be held for selection. Selected candidates from the written examination will be appointed 
in order of merit after calling for an interview according to the number of vacancies to check the qualifications 
and after conducting a practical test.
 7.2  Written Examination – This examination will have two question papers. 
Subject
Maximum Marks Marks required to pass the 
examination
Aptitude Test (Duration: 01 hour) 100 40
General Knowledge (Duration: 01 hour) 100 40
Syllabus:
  Subject No. 01  -aptitude Test 
This paper will be prepared to test the skills and logical intelligence of the applicants. This paper will comprise of 50                          
structured and multiple choice questions. All questions should be answered. (02 marks for each question and total marks is 100) 
  Subject No. 02 –General Knowledge
This paper will comprise of 50 multiple choice questions to test the general knowledge in social,                              
economical, political areas. All questions should be answered. (02 marks for each question and total marks 
is 100) 
              7.3   examination Scheme:
 I applicants are allowed to apply to sit for this examination in Sinhala / Tamil / english medium. 
 II every applicant should sit for both question papers. 
 III every applicant should sit for all questions papers in one language medium. This language medium should 
be the language expected for teaching appointment.
 IV applicants who apply for english Language subject should sit for the examination only in the english 
medium. 
 V applicants are not allowed to change the language medium mentioned in the application, at a later stage. 

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
35
7.4      Interview:-
This interview will be conducted to test the qualifications mentioned in this Gazette notification, physical and 
mental aptitude and to give marks for the class of the degree and additional qualifications.
  (A)      Allocation of Marks for the Class of the Degree ( Maximum Marks 07 )
 1 st Class 07 Marks
 2 nd Class (Upper)  05 Marks
 2 nd Class (Lower)  03 Marks
        (B)        Allocation of Marks for Additional Qualifications (Maximum Marks10)
Serial 
No. 
Criteria Maximum 
Marks
01 Obtained the Dhamma School Final Certificate or acceptable equal Certificate in 
other religions. 05
02 Obtained Government or Government accepted Certificates for 1st, 2nd or 3rd place at National 
Level from extracurricular activities such as Sports, Aesthetics. 05
Total Marks 10
     7.5    Allocation of Marks for the Practical Test ( Maximum Marks 08)
Applicants should make a presentation not less than 5 minutes on a topic related to one of the applied subjects, at 
the practical test. The ability of expression of ideas and communication skills of the applicants will be considered 
at this test. 
08.  Examination	Centers:-
This competitive examination will be conducted in the following cities. The permanent residents of the North                 
Western Province should select the city according to their district of residence. applicants from other provinces 
should select the city which they prefer to be appointed. 
 
District City City No. 
Kurunegala Kurunegala 1
Puttlam Puttlam 2
09.	 Method	of	Selection	:
(A) Selection will be done in accordance with the provisions of the Teachers’ Service Minute of the North 
Western Provincial council. 
(B)  Even if the selection is concluded for some subject / subjects to a certain district, and still there are                  
vacancies, applicants applied for that subject / subjects of the other district will be selected in order of merit.
  The applicants from other provinces will be considered to fill the Tamil medium subject vacancies                      
mentioned in the paragraph I only in the event of absence of qualified candidates from the two districts. 
(C)  In the event of an applicant has been selected for two (02) subjects or all three (03) subjects, the appointment 
will be given on the decision made by the North Western Provincial Public Service commission. 

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
36
10. 	Examination	Fees:-
a sum of Rs. 600/- being the examination fee should be paid to the divisional Secretariat of the area of permanent 
residence to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the North Western Provincial council and the receipt 
WPSM/2 obtained from the Divisional Secretariat in favour of applicant should be affixed to the application. 
Tamil medium applicants from other provinces who are applying for the vacancies in Kurunegala district should pay 
the examination fees to the Kurunegala divisional Secretariat and the applicants who are applying for the vacancies 
in Puttlam district should pay the examination fees to the Puttlam divisional Secretariat, and the receipt WPSm/2 
obtained from the Divisional Secretariat in favour of applicant should be affixed to the application. 
Receipts other than the WPSm/2 receipt obtained from the divisional Secretariat or money Orders or money 
will not be accepted and those applicants will not be allowed to sit for the examination. It should be noted that the                 
examination fee is non-refundable under any circumstance and it will not be allowed to transfer the examination 
fees paid to any other examination. (Please keep a photocopy of the receipt for future reference).
11. Method	of	Application:
   11.1      (A)  Application should be prepared using Legal (21x 35.5 cm) papers according to the specimen given at the 
end of this notification. Paragraphs 01 to 06 should be included in the first page and the paragraphs from 
paragraph 07 onwards should be included in the rest of the pages.
(B) Applications that do not comply with the specimen application form, which are incomplete, applications 
of the candidates who have not fulfilled the required qualifications will be rejected without notice. Further, 
the applicants should check whether the application form complies with the specimen application form.  
It would be useful to keep a copy of the completed application with the applicant. Receipt of applications 
will not be acknowledged. 
(C)  It will not be allowed to change the applied subject /subjects and an applicant will be allowed to submit 
only one application. 
(D) Closing Date of Applications – 14.01.2019
11.2 Attestation	of	the	Signature	of	the	Applicant:
The signature of the applicant in the application form should be attested by a Principal of a Government School 
/ a Justice of Peace / Commissioner of Oaths / Attorney-at-Law / Notary Public / Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces / an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent staff  
grade post in the Public / Provincial Public Service whose initial basic salary is above Rs. 32,960/-.
11.3 Duly filled applications should be sent under registered cover to reach the address mentioned below on or before 
14.01.2019. applications received after this date will not be accepted. 
 “Secretary, 
 North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
 Provincial Council Office Complex, 
 Kurunegala.”
The words “Recruitment of Graduates for north Western Provincial Teachers’ Service – 2018” and the 
District of Residence should be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application.
11.4 a n admission card will be issued for the applicants who have paid examination paid and submitted                                     
applications on or before 14.01.2019 to sit for the competitive examination. Issuance of an admission card is 
not an acceptance of the qualifications of the applicant to sit for the examination. 

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
37
12.		Identity	of	the	Applicants:
every applicant should prove his / her identity at the examinations hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the 
examination hall. For this purpose, 
  (A)  National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons 
     or
  (B)  A valid Passport / Valid Driving License will be accepted. 
	 Note	:	 applicants will be considered as ineligible for the examination if they fail to establish their identity at the  
                examination hall. 
13.  Applications should be filled with due consideration providing accurate information. It will not be allowed to amend 
any information. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage                   
prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished false information with knowledge                   
he/she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
14.   an admission card along with a copy of the examination timetable will be issued to the applicants who have paid the 
application fee and submitted the applications on or before the due date and on the presumption that all applied applicants 
have obtained the required qualifications mentioned in the notification. Once the admission cards are issued, a notification 
will be published in the website of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission (www.psc.nw.gov.
lk).In case the admission for the examination is not received at least after 03 days prior to the date of examination, it 
should be notified immediately to the “Secretary, north Western Provincial council Public Service commission, 
Provincial council complex, kurunegala”along with the following details.
 I. Name of the examination:
 II. Full Name of the applicant:
 III. address:
 IV National Identity card Number: 
 V . Post Office which the Application was posted, registered number,and the date
 VI. Telephone Number of applicant:
15. The decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission will be final and conclusive on the 
matters pertaining to this notification and the matters not covered in this notification. 
16. The North Western Provincial council Public Service commission reserves the decision of conducting or not conducting 
this examination, filling or not filling the vacancies after the examination and the number of vacancies. 
17. If there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in Sinhala, 
Tamil and english, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such instances. 
   by order of the North Western Provincial Public Service commission, 
 Padmini Kariyawasam,
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial Public Service commission.
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala
05th december, 2018.

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
38
SPecImeN  aPPLIcaTION
                   For official use only
open competitive examination for the Recruitment of Graduates for the Vacancies of the class 3 Grade I (A) of 
the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service existing in the Provincial council Schools of the 
north Western Province on District basis – 2018 
01.Permanent Residency:-
If in the North Western Province
district of Permanent 
Residence:-
city No:-  
 
02.   Language medium for examination:- 
 
 Sinhala- S                Tamil- T        english- e   
 (Write the letter relevant to the expected language medium for appointment inside the cage) 
03.
  
Subject / Subjects applied Subject No.
 
            (Maximum number of subjects that can be applied is 03)
If in another Province (Only for Tamil Medium Special Subjects)
 Province of Permanent 
 Residence :-
 district applied :- 
 city No :- 
04.  4.1 Name with Initials ( Sinhala / Tamil) :- ..............................................................................
 4.2  Name with Initials ( English Block Letters) :- ....................................................................
 4.3 Name in full (Sinhala/ Tamil):- ........................................................................................
1.4  Name in Full (English Block Letters):- ............................................................................
05. 5.1  Present Address ( Sinhala / Tamil) :- ........................................................................
   ..............................................................................................................................................
 (Admissions will be posted to this address)
 5.2  Present Address(English Block Letters) :-.....................................................................
  ..............................................................................................................................................
 5.3 divisional Secretariat division of Residence:- ....................
  Grama Niladari division:- ...............................................
 5.4  Telephone Number:- ........................................................................................................... 

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
39
06.   6.1  National Identity card No. 
   (Write numbers inside cages)
   6.2 date of birth:- year :     month :  date :
  6.3  age as at closing date of applications:-     years:  months:                     days:
 
  6.4 Gender:-   male - m         Female  - F
   (Write the relevant letter inside the cage)
  6.5  civil Status:-   Single- 1      married- 2
   (Write the relevant number inside the cage)
07.  details of the degree :-
  7.1 Degree :-…………………………………………………………................................
     7.2 University:-.................................................................................
  7.3 main subjects of the degree :-
 
  7.4 class obtained:- ................................................................................................
  7.5 Effective date of the degree:-.........................................................................................
  7.6 medium of the degree:- .....................................................................................
  7.7 GCE (O/L)    
 
year passed Index No.
1st Sitting
2nd Sitting
Subject 1st sitting 
result
2nd  sitting 
result 
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
7.8   GCE (A/L)
year Passed:-
Index No:-
Subject Result

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
40
08.     details on Payment of examination Fees:-
1.1  Divisional Secretariat :-……………………………………….
1.2  Receipt No. & Date:- ………………………….......................................................
1.3  Amount paid:- …………………………...........................................................................
Paste the Receipt here Firmly .
(Please keep a copy of the Receipt)
09.   Declaration	of	the	Applicant:-	
 (A) I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge and belief and I have completed all parts of this application accurately. I agree to bear the 
consequences of not filling this application accurately or filling this application incompletely.  
( B) I know that my eligibility for the appointment is liable for cancellation and I am liable for disciplinary action 
if it is found that I have furnished false information.
(C)  I certify that I have paid the examination fees to the relevant Divisional Secretariat and pasted the receipt in 
this application. I will abide by the rules imposed by commissioner General of examinations / North Western 
Provincial council Public Service commission with regard to this examination. 
( D)    I will not change any information furnished  in this application later. .
       
 Date-………………….                             …………………......…….
         Signature of the applicant.
10. Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr /Mrs/Miss........................................................ is known to me personally; 
and  he / she placed his / her signature before me on ................................ and he / she has paid the examination fees 
and pasted the receipt in this application. 
      ...................................................................
                  Signature and Rubber Stamp of the attester. 
date     :...................................................................
Full Name of the Certifying Officer  : ..................................................................
designation    : .................................................................... 
address     : ..................................................................

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
41
Subject Subject 
no.
Education	Qualifications
Vacancies
kurunegala Puttlam
 
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Primary Section (1-5)
Primay 1
General or Special Degree in Arts with Sinhala / 
Tamil Language or Sinhala / Tamil Liguistics or 
Education as a main subject. 
or
Any Degree in Arts with a Credit pass or 
above for Sinhala / Tamil subject at the G.C.E. 
(Advanced Level) Examination. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Special 
Education
2
General or Special Degree in Arts with any 
subject of Psychology / Linguistics / Sinhala / 
Tamil / Philosophy during the whole course of 
study. 
or
General or Special Degree in Arts with Special 
Education as a subject. 
√ – – √	 – –
Secondary - G.C.E. Ordinary Level (6-11)
Mathematics 3
General or Special Degree in Science / Applied 
Science with Mathematics as a subject and 
passed Combined Mathematics / Mathematics at 
GCE A/L examination.  
or
Any General or Special Degree with a Credit 
pass or above for Combined Mathematics  / 
Mathematics at GCE A/L examination. 
√	 √	 √	 √	 √	 √	
The vacancies available in each Districts according to Medium is marked ( √ ). Subjects should be selected according to this 
indication and medium. 
Schedule

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
42
Subject Subject 
no.
Education	Qualifications
Vacancies
kurunegala Puttlam
 
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Science 4
General or Special Degree in Science / Applied 
Science with Biology / Chemistry / Physics  as 
a subject and passed Biology, Chemistry and 
Physics at GCE A/L examination.  
or
Any General or Special Degree with  Credit 
passes or above for Biology, Chemistry and 
Physics at GCE A/L examination.
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Sinhala / Tamil 
(First Language)
5 General or Special degree in arts with Sinhala 
/ Tamil or Sinhala / Tamil Linguistics as a main 
subject during the whole course of study.  
√ √	 – √	 √	 –
English 
Language
6
General or Special Degree in Arts / Technology 
with English Language / English Literature / 
English Linguistics  as a main subject during the 
whole course of study.  
or
Bachelor of Education in English Language
– – 	√	 – – √	
History 7
General or Special Degree in Arts with History / 
Archaeology  as a main subject during the whole 
course of study.  √	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Geography 8
General or Special Degree in Arts with 
Geography  as a main subject during the whole 
course of study.  √	 √	 √	 √	 √	 √	
Business 
Studies and 
Accountancy 9
General or Special Degree in Business 
Administration / Science (Management) / 
Accountancy / Management / Commerce 
                            or  
                             
General or Special Degree in Arts with Business 
Studies and Accountancy as main subjects. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Drawing Arts 10
General Degree or Special Degree in Arts with 
Drawing Arts as a main subject and a Credit pass 
for Drawing at GCE A/L examination.  √	 √	 – √	 √	 –

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
43
Subject Subject 
no.
Education	Qualifications
Vacancies
kurunegala Puttlam
 
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Dancing 11
General or Special Degree in Performing Arts / 
Fine Arts with Dancing as a main subject during 
the whole course.  
or 
General or Special Degree in Arts with Dancing 
as a subject and a Credit pass for Dancing at the 
GCE A/L examination.  
√	 – – √	 √	 –
Eastern Music 12
General or Special Degree in Performing Arts / 
Fine Arts with Eastern Music as a main subject 
during the whole course.  √	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Citizen 
Education
13
Any General Degree or Special Degree in Arts 
with Sociology / Political Science / Geography 
/ Mass Communication / Communication and 
Media Studies / History / Economics as subjects 
or subject combinations.
√	 √	 √	 √	 √	 √	
Agriculture 
and Food 
Technology
14
General Degree or Special Degree in Science 
with Agriculture / Agricultural and Food 
Technology as a main subject. √	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Information 
Technology
15
General Degree or Special Degree in Science 
/ Information Technology with Information 
Technology / Computer Science as a main 
subject during the whole course. 
or
General Degree or Special Degree in Arts with 
Information Technology / Computer Science as 
a main subject during the whole course of study 
and passed 03 subjects in Science / Maths stream 
at GCE A/L examination. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Health and 
Physical 
Education
16
Special Degree in Sports Science and 
Management / Physical Education. 
or
Special Degree in Arts in Sports Management 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Second 
Language 
(Tamil)
17
General or Special Degree in Tamil Medium and 
passed Second Language (Sinhala) at GCE O/L 
examination and Tamil Language at GCE A/L 
examination. 
√	 – – √	 – –

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
44
Subject Subject 
no.
Education	Qualifications
Vacancies
kurunegala Puttlam
 
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Second 
Language 
(Sinhala)
18
General or Special Degree in Sinhala Medium 
and passed Second Language (Tamil) at GCE 
O/L examination and Sinhala Language at GCE 
A/L examination.   
– √	 – – √	 –
Library Science 19
Degree in Library and Information Studies
or
General or Special Degree in Arts with Library 
Science as a main subject during the whole 
course of study. 
√	 √	 – – √	 –
Buddhism 20
General or Special Degree in Arts with 
Buddhist Philosophy / Buddhist Civilization / 
Buddhism as a main subject. √	 – – √	 – –
Hinduism 21
Hindu Philosophy/ Hindu Civilization/Bachelor 
of Arts General or Special Degree in Hinduism - √	 – – √	 –
Christianism 22
General or Special Degree in Arts with 
Christianism / Christian Civilization / Christian 
Culture as a main subject. √	 – – √	 √	 –
Islam 23
General or Special Degree in Arts with Islam 
Philosophy / Islam Civilization / Islam Religion 
as a main subject. – √	 – – √	 –
GCE Advanced Level (12-13)
Sinhala / Tamil  24 Special Degree in Arts with Sinhala / Tamil or 
Sinhala / Tamil Linguistics as a subject. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
English 
Language
25
General or Special Degree in Arts / Technology 
with English Language / English Literature / 
English Linguistics  as a main subject during 
the whole course of study.  
or
Bachelor of Education in English Language
– – √	 – – √	
Political Science 26 Special Degree in Arts in Political Science √	 √	 – √	 √	 –

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
45
Subject Subject 
no.
Education	Qualifications
Vacancies
kurunegala Puttlam
 
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Sinhala
Tamil
english
History 27 Special Degree in Arts in History / Archaeology √	 – – √	 – –
Drama and 
Theatre
28 Special Degree in Performing Arts / Fine Arts in 
Drama and Theatre. √	 – – √	 – –
Geography 29 Special Degree in Arts in Geography. √	 √	 √	 √	
Logics 30 Special Degree in Arts in Logics / Philosophy. √	 – – √	 – –
Mass 
Communication 
and Media 
Studies
31 Special Degree in Arts in Mass Communication / 
Communication and Media Studies. √	 – – √	 – –
Economics 32 Special Degree in Economics. √	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Buddhist 
Civilization
33 Special Degree in Arts in Buddhist Philosophy / 
Buddhist Civilization / Buddhism. √	 – – √	 – –
Hindu 
Civilization
34 Special Degree in Arts in Hindu Philosophy / 
Hindu Civilization / Hindhuism.
– √	 – √	 –
Christianism 35 Special Degree in Arts in Christian Culture / 
Christian Civilization / Christianism. 
√	 – – √	 √	
Islam 
Civilization
36 Special Degree in Arts in Islam Philosophy / 
Islam Civilization / Islam. – √	 – – √	 –
Business Studies 37 Special Degree in Commerce / Business 
Administration / Science / Business Management 
with Business Studies / Commerce as a main 
subject. 
√	 – – √	 √	 –
Accountancy 38 Special Degree in Accountancy
or 
Special Degree in Commerce / Business 
Administration / Business Management with 
Accountancy as a subject.  
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Agriculture 39 Special Degree in Agricuture / Agricultural 
Technology and Management. √	 √	 – √	 – –

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA –14.12.2018
46
Subject Subject 
no.
Education	Qualifications
Vacancies
kurunegala Puttlam
 
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Sinhala
Tamil
english
Combined 
Mathematics 40
General or Special Degree in Science with Pure 
Mathematics / Applied Mathematics / Advanced 
Mathematics as a subject and a pass for 
Combined Mathematics at the G.C.E. (Advanced 
Level) Examination. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Physics 41 General Degree or Special Degree in Science / 
Applied Science with Physics as a main subject. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Biology 42 General Degree or Special Degree in Science / 
Applied Science with Biology as a main subject. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Chemistry 43
General Degree or Special Degree in Science 
/ Applied Science with Chemistry as a main 
subject. 
√	 √	 – √	 √	 –
Science for 
Technology 44
General or Special Degree in Science with 
Physics as a subject. √	 – – √	 – –
 
Biosystems      
Technology 45
General or Special Degree in Science with Bio 
Systems / Agricultural and Food Technology / 
Environmental Science / Agriculture / Mineral 
Resources Technology as a subject or subject 
combination. 
√	 – – √	 – –
Engineering 
Technology 46
Bachelor of Science in Enginneering / 
Engineering Technology / Nano Technology 
/ Science (Surveying Science) / Technology 
(Science & Technolog) or any of the below 
qualifications - 
Bachelor of Technology with Civil, Mechanical / 
Electrical and Electornic Engineering.
or
Any degree with three paasses at GCE A/L 
examination in Mathematics / Engineeing 
Technology stream.                                                     
or
Any degree with a NVQ - Level 5 Certificate 
or higher in Engineering Technology (Civil / 
Mechanical / Electrical and Electronics) 
√	 – – √	 – –
12-522/5

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrA tIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI   lAnkA – 14.12.2018
47
PRINTed  aT  THe  dePaRTmeNT   OF  GOVeRNmeNT   PRINTING ,  SRI  LaNKa.
amendment
noRTh WeSTeRn PRoVIncIAL  councIL  PubLIc SeRVIce commISSIon
open competitive examination for Recruitment of Diploma holders to the Grade 3 - I (c) of the Sri 
Lanka	Teachers’	Service	on	District	Basis	to	fill	the	English	Teachers’	Vacancies	existing	in	the	
Provincial council Schools of the north Western Province - 2018 
THIS refers to the Notice No. 11-1007 dated 23.11.2018 published in the Gazette No. 2,099 on the recruitment to the above 
mentioned posts. 
02.  The section (2) III under sub paragraph 2.2 of Education Qualifications is amended as follows :
“(2) III. Should have obtained Three (03) Passes in one sitting at G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination and 
obtained a Credit Pass or Distinction for English Language at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination” 
 Padmini Kariyawasam,
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial Public Service commission. 
Provincial Council Office Complex, 
Kurunegala.
05th November, 2018
12-522/6