

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1960$4 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 28 jeks i÷od - 2016'03'28
No. 1960/4  -  MONDAY  MARCH  28,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B 21/1978(x)
UNIVERSITIES  ACT,  No.   16  OF 1978
Order under Section 25A
BY virtue of powers vested in me by Section 25A of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 I, Lakshman Kiriella, the
Minister of Higher Education and Highways, having obtained a report under Section 70C of the aforesaid Act, in respect
of the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine Ltd. a company incorporated in Sri Lanka under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007 and bearing Registration Number PV 64641, do by this Order and subject to the conditions specified
in Schedule I hereto, recognize the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine Ltd. as a Degree Awarding Institute
for the purpose of developing higher education therein, leading to the award of the Degrees specified in Column I of
Schedule II hereto, of which the abbreviations are set out in the corresponding entries respectively in Column II of
Schedule II hereto.
SCHEDULE   I
C
ONDITIONS
(1) SAITM - South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”)
shall before the expiry of two months from the date of granting the degree awarding status, submit its Articles
of Association duly amended as set out below to the Specified Authority : -
(a) to specify higher education as an object in the Articles of Association ;
(b) to undertake to inform the Specified Authority of V oluntary winding up of the Company prior to such
winding up.
(2) The Institute shall before the expiry of twelve months (12) from the date of granting the degree awarding
status, submit the following details to Specified Authority :-
(i) proof of recruitment of qualified academic and non-academic staff as to meet the requirements of the
relevant degree programme ;
(ii) a study program for the specified period of study in accordance with the norms approved by the
University Grants Commission ;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.03.2016
2A
(iii) proof of the availability of the text books, hand books, recommended reading books and other sufficient
learning materials required for the relevant degree programme ;
(iv) proof of availability of spacious modernized library with all required collection of books and equipments,
which would enable the students to carry out the required researches for the relevant degree programme ;
and
(v) specifying the requirements for the staff to engage in relevant researches and publish such researches
in journals in Sri Lanka.
(3) The Institute shall before the expiry of 3 years from the date of granting the degree awarding status, establish
the following laboratories required to the Engineering Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering Degree
Programme :-
i. Material and Mechanics Laboratory
ii. Surveying Laboratory
iii. S tructural Testing Laboratory
vi. Geotechnical Laboratory
v . Hydraulic Laboratory
(4) Establishment of Laboratories Institutes shall increase the following laboratory facilities before completion
of the second academic year of the first batch of student enrollment and obtain approval from the Specified
Authority.
i. Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Lab,
ii. Industrial Automation and Process Control Lab,
iii. Electronics, Instrumentation and Power System Lab,
iv. Engineering Workshop.
(5) Evidence of Quality Assurance Mechanism implementation shall be submitted on an half yearly basis and
full implementation evidence shall be submitted within one year of enrolling first batch.
SCHEDULE  II
Column I Column II
Degree Programs Abbreviations to the Degree
Bachelor of Science in Engineering in Mechatronics BSc (Eng.) (Mechatronics Eng.)
Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering in Civil BSc (Eng.) (Civil Eng.)
Engineering
In this Order “the Specified Authority” means the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of
Higher Education on Highways.
The Order made under Section 25A of the aforesaid Act in respect of the South Asian Institute of Technology and
Medicine Ltd. and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1913/14 of May 7, 2015 is hereby rescinded without prejudice
to anything lawfully done thereunder.
L
AKSHMAN K IRIELLA,
Minister of Higher Education and Highways.
Colombo,
21st March, 2016.
04-528
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.