

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 270
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 270 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"424 – 2025 fmnrjdß ui 14 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'02'14
No. 2,424 –  FRiday, FEbRuaRy, 14, 2025
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th March, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st February, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 K. G. Pradeep  Pushpa  Kumara,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
02nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
267 - b 082654 - 5,403 (02/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
268
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
269
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
270
Post - v acant
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
ministry of finance, Planning and Economic Development
oPEN   coMPEtitiVE   ExaMiNatioN   FoR   REcRuitMENt  oF   GRadE   iii   oF   tHE    
SRi LaNka  iNLaNd  REVENuE   SERVicE   2024
aPPLicatioNS  are called online from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for Open Competitive Examination for the 
recruitment to the Posts in Grade iii of Sri Lanka inland Revenue Service.
Revenue Service
1. In this notice " Secretary" shall mean the "Secretary to the Ministry in Charge of the subject of Monetary Administration", 
"Service" shall mean the "Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service" at the instances not specified in other way.
2.  the appointments through this examination shall be made to Grade iii of Sri Lanka inland Revenue Service. Recruitments 
shall be made upon the results of a Written Examination and a General interview.
 Date of examination.- Receipt of online application will be opened on Monday, february, 17, 2025 and closed on 
14.03.2025. the examination will be held in the month of May in colombo by the commissioner General of Examination. 
The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel the examination subject to the instructions of Public Service 
commission.
3.  Number of persons to be appointed is 100. The effective date of appointment shall be determined on the orders of the 
Public Service commission.
4.  Officers who are currently in the Public/ Provincial Public Service should provide his Head of the Institution with a copy 
of the application to be attached to the personal file of the officer. A copy of the application attested by the Head of the 
Institution and an employment verification letters should be submitted at the time interview.
5.  Conditions of Service:
5.1 Selected candidate shall be appointed to the Grade iii of the Service on the general conditions governing 
appointments in the Public Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the minute of Sri Lanka inland revenue 
Service published in the Extraordinary Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1804/50 
of 05.04.2013, and subject to any amendments made or to be hereafter to the service minute, provisions of the 
Establishment code and Financial Regulations and Public Service commission's Procedural Rules published in the 
Gazette extraordinary No. 2310/29 dated 14.12.2022.
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ' S  DEPARTmENT  
Amendment of closing date of Applications for Recruitment of Registrars of birth, Death and marriages
it  is kindly notified that the closing date of applications for the recruitment of Birth, Death and Marriages Registrars in 
kandy district, appearing in the No. 2415 Gazette of the Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 13.12.2024 which was 
published by me is extended to 17.03.2025.
02. Please note that the closing date of applications only changed, all other details in the said Gazette notification remain 
unchanged.
 W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
 Registrar General.
02-97

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
271
5.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. You are subjected to the policy decisions taken by the Government in the 
future regarding the pension scheme you are entitled to. Further, you shall contribute to the Widows' & orphans 
Pension Fund/ Widowers' & orphans' Pension Fund. y ou shall pay contributions to this fund as declared by the 
Government from time to time.
5.3 This appointment is subjected to probation period of 3 years. As mentioned in the Service Minute, the 1
st  Efficiency 
bar Examination shall be passed within 03 years from the date or recruitment to the Grade iii of Sri Lanka inland 
Revenue Service.
5.4 Prescribed Official Language Proficiency shall be obtained within 03 years of joining the service in terms of the 
Public administration circular No. 18/2020 and consequent circulars.
6. The Salary Scale.- as per the Schedule 1 of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 monthly 
salary scale entitled to this post is Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170-110,895/- (SL-01-2016). the payment of 
salary to you shall be made as per the Schedule ii of the above circular.
7. Qualifications for Recruitment :
(a) (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) Shall have an excellent moral character,
 (iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to discharge the official duties of this post any part of the country,
 (iv) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be permitted to sit for the Examination.
 (v) No person is allowed to sit the open competitive Examination for more than two (2) sittings. (Number of sittings 
at the examinations to recruit Grade ii/ii of Sri Lanka Revenue Service are not considered under previous service 
minutes).
 (vi) Requisite qualifications for this examination shall have been completed in every aspect by on or before the 
application closing date.
(b) Educational Qualifications :
 (i) Shall have possessed a degree with first class or second class from a university recognized by the University 
Grant commission or an institution recognized by the university Grant commission as an institution for awarding 
degrees (Minimum academic time should be 3 years)
 or ;
 (ii) being Supreme court Lawyer
 or,
 (iii) being a chartered accountant.
 Note.- Effective date of qualification in i, ii, iii shall be a date on or before the application closing date,
(c) Age - Shall not be less than twenty-two (22) years of age and not have reached 28 years of age on the application 
closing date (therefore the eligibility of age shall be completed if only the birthdate of the candidate falls on or before 
14.03.2003 and on or after 14.03.1997 only)
 The maximum age limit for the employees of Public and Provincial Service is Thirty five (35) years. (Candidates who 
are currently in the Public Service should have not been subjected to a disciplinary punishment in terms of the Public 
Service commission circular No. 01/2020)
(d) if candidates with special needs appear for this examination, it is mandatorily set out in the application.  
8. method of Recruitment :-
8.1 Written Examination :
 A written examination of three (03) question papers including the following subjects shall be held.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
272
 Subjects and the minimum marks that shall be obtained for each subject are as follows :
Subject Marks Minimum marks that shall be 
obtained for a pass
1. comprehension 100 40
2. General intelligence 100 40
3. General knowledge 100 40
8.1.1 Syllabus of the written examination  :
Subject No. 01 - comprehension :
Shall comprise of objective type questions to test candidate's skills in comprehension, communication, 
summarization, interpretation and creation.
(t ime 1 hour 30 minutes - Marks 100)
Subject No. 02 - General intelligence :
Shall comprise of multiple-choice questions to test candidates' skills on reasoning, interpretation, substitutions, 
finding relationships, translation, problem solving, finding cause & effect relations, predication, information 
organization, pattern identification and instruction execution.
(t ime 1 hour - Marks 100)
Subject No. 03 - General knowledge
Shall comprise of multiple choice and short answer type questions to examine awareness of Sri Lanka's overall 
environment, including the geographical, political, economic, social and cultural environment and current 
affairs of international importance as well as scientific and technological developments. 
(t ime 1 hour - Marks 100) 
8.2 General Interview :
 (i) The general interview shall be held to verify whether the candidate has satisfied qualifications for recruitment 
mentioned in No. 06 above. 
 (ii) the General interview will be held after the issuance of results of the written examination and no marks shall be 
given here.
 (iii) the general interview board is appointed by the Public Service commission.
 (iv) Candidates who secure highest marks according to aggregate of marks from all the subjects out of the candidates 
who secure at least 40% of marks or above for each subject shall become qualified to appear for the general 
interview. Public Service Commission has determined to call a number of candidates from among the qualified 
candidates for the interview as per the order of the competency they received from the written examination and 
according to the precised number to be recruited. at the instances where the number of eligible candidates is not 
similar to the decided number as above only the qualified candidates shall be called for the general interview.
N.B.-  opportunity given to a candidate for appearing for the interview does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate has possessed qualifications to be awarded an appointment.
8.3 in recruiting the number expected to be recruited as per the number of vacancies, appointment shall be made to Grade 
(III) according to merits, beginning from qualified candidates who have scored highest marks as per the total marks 
obtained at the written examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
273
8.4 When filling vacancies in the order of merit and the candidates, if any point, the number of candidates with equal marks 
at the written examination exceeds the reminder of vacancies, Public Service commission may, if the exigencies of 
Service requires doing so, decide to conduct an additional selection process only for those candidates. the additional 
selection process will be composed of ;
 i. a written examination to assess the ability of the candidates, and 
 ii. a competency-based interview
the written examination will be conducted by an institute approve by the public Service commission. interview panel 
will be appointed by the commission.
For further information about the structure and content of the process, prospective candidates may refer to webpage.
Home    downloads         Procedure             Special Selection Procedure
on the Official website of the Public Service Commission at www.psc.gov.lk.
9. medium of the Examination :
 (a) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English
 (b) a  candidate can appear for the examination in only one language of her/his choice.
Note : 
 (i) a  candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
 (ii) a  candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the 
application.
 (iii) Every candidate shall appear for all three question papers.
10. Conditions of the Examination -
I. Online Examination Application should strictly be filled in English. Once the Department of Examination receives 
the application submitted online, the candidates will be notified via SMS to the mobile phone number used to 
access the system or via email whether the application was accepted/ not accepted by the department as a valid 
application. before completing the online application, you should download the instructions sheet prepared for 
this purpose. the instruction therein should be strictly followed. No alteration done after talking the print out of 
the application will be considered as a valid modification. Incomplete applications are rejected without any notice.
ii. Examination fee is Rs. 1,200/-. Payments should be made only via following methods of payments provided by 
the online system.
Note : i. any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the Facility of internet transactions
 iii. banking method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
(a) instruction on making payment through above methods are published under technical 
instructions relevant to the examination on the web site.
(b) Receipt of payment will be notified via an SMS or e-mail. the total of the examination fees 
should be paid and the applications with payment or lesser or higher amounts shall be rejected. 
department of Examination shall not be responsible for any error occurs during the payment of 
examination fees via above methods of payments.
(c) under no circumstances the examination fee will be refunded or transferred to pay any other 
examination fee.
 iii. all candidates who have paid the prescribed examination fees and forwarded their duly perfected applications on 
or before the specified date will received admission cards to appear the examination by the commissioner General 
of Examinations for on the presumption that only those who possess such qualifications as indicated in the Gazette 
notification have applied. Admission cards will be issued only through online method and once the admission 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
274
cards are issued to the candidates for the examination, a notice thereof will be published and the candidates 
will also be notified through SMS. Candidates who do not receive their admission cards, should inquire thereof 
from the institutional Examinations organizations branch of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in the 
procedure specified in the notice. When inquiring so, the Name of Examination that the candidate applied for, 
the Full Name of the candidate, National identity card Number, and the address should be mentioned accurately. 
In case an candidate is outside of Colombo, it will be more effective to forward a letter of request along with the 
above information, indicating a fax number to which the copy of the admission card could be faxed expressly to 
the fax number indicated in the notice. When inquiring so, it will be advantageous to keep the prited application 
form in your possession in order to verify any information requested by the department of Examinations. 
 iV . a  candidate must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his signature 
attested in advance and hand over the admission card to the supervisor on the first day he presents himself for the 
examination. a set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published at the beginning of Gazette. candidates 
are subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and they are liable to be subjected to punishment imposed by him/ her for breach of these rules.
Note : The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled  the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination.
11. Identity of Candidates - The candidates shall prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject 
they sit in the examination. any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose:
(a) National identity card,
(b) a valid Passport,
(c) a valid Sri Lankan driving License
Furthermore, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their faces and ears that their identity 
can be verified and also not wearing any electronic communication devices. No candidate is allowed to enter in to the 
examination hall who rejects to confirm their identity in that manner. Further they should in the examination hall from 
the time they entered in and until they leave the hall after the completion of the examination without covering their face 
and two ears so as to be identified by the examination authorities.
12. Results.- The results sheet prepared as per the merits on the total marks of the candidates qualified according to the Section 
8.1 of the Gazette notice, shall be forwarded to the public Service commission. all the candidates of the examination 
shall be informed personally on their marks or the marks shall be published on the www. results.exams.gov.lk website.
13. Penalty for false information:- If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess the required qualifications, his/her 
candidature can be annulled at any stage before, during or after the examination. if it is revealed after the appointment 
that any of false information has been furnished by a candidate within him/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully 
suppressed a material fact his/her appointment can be cancelled. if the particulars furnished by a candidate are found to 
be false or if it is found that he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he or she is liable for dismissal from public 
service.
14. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions 
given by the Public Service commission.
15. In case an inconsistency among the matters in Sinhala, Tamil and English notifications, Sinhala notification shall come 
into force.
on the order of Public Service commission,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic development.
on 29
th  January, 2025,
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic development,
colombo - 01.
02-53

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
275
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION , hIGhER  EDuCATION  AND vOCATIONAL  EDuCATION
 Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the Grade II Officers of Sri Lanka Education Administration 
Service - 2025
i t is hereby informed that the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade II Officers of Sri Lanka Education Administration 
Service is Scheduled to be held at colombo in the month of May 2025. 
application has been published on the website of department of Examinations, Sri Lanka under "our Services" of www.
doenets.lk in "online applications- Recruitment Exams/Eb Exams" and applications can be submitted via online only. 
acceptance of online applications 2025 is opened at 9.00 a.m. on the 17 th  of february 2025  and is ended at 9.00 a.m. the 
14 th  of March 2025.  after submitting the application online, it should be downloaded and the relevant parts of the printed 
copy should be filled in by hand, the signature of the applicant should be authenticated , and together with the certificate of 
the Head of the relevant institution, should be sent by registered post to the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka as to 
be received on or before the last date of close of applications.
02. Syllabus and other provisions relevant to this examination  has been published in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification 
No.1928/28 dated 21.08.2015 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. the syllabus and other provisions are 
given below for your convenience.
03. Details of the Examination :
Question paper Time Total Marks Passing Marks
1. Educational Policy t ime 02 hours 100 40
2. Subjective Studies  t ime 02 hours 100 40
 
04. Exam conducting authority : commissioner General of Examinations
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1. Education policies this question paper consists of two parts.
(a) General Education Policy – Questions are prepared to test the 
candidate's knowledge of the current Education Policy declaration 
by the Government . candidates are expected to be tested their 
knowledge on possible problems in the course of his official duties, if 
the pronounced changes are applied in the Policies.
(b)  School curriculum:-t o test the candidate's general comprehension 
on the curriculum area at various stages of the school system and 
the preliminary objective of the curriculum. Candidates should have 
an understanding of the human and physical resources of the school 
and should be able to critically comment on the curriculum from that 
point of view.
2. Subjective study designed to test the candidate's creative and logical thinking ability 
and problem solving ability .
06.  For the subjects Scheduled for 2
nd  efficiency bar examination may be appeared by an officer at the same time or at 
several separate occasions.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
276
07.  Language Medium of Examination :
 i. this exam is conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums.
 ii. candidates should appear for the exam in only one language as per their preference.
 iii. the language medium of the competitive examination or examinations in which the candidate appeared for entry 
into the public service, in case of those who joined the public service without an examination, the answers should 
be written in the medium of the language in which they were qualified to enter the public service.
 iv. if a candidate is found to be appearing in the examination through a medium to which he is not entitled, his/her 
candidature shall be cancelled. it is not allowed to change the medium of language applied for appearing in the 
examination later.
08.  online examination application should be completed in English language only. after the department of Examination 
receives both the soft copy made online and the printout sent by registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy 
shall be verified and accepted by the department as a valid application. The mobile phone number used to access 
the system will be notified by a SMS or an e -mail  that it is accepted/ it is not accepted as valid application by the 
department. before completion of the online application, download the instructions for applying for the exam. Follow 
the instructions carefully while filling the application form. Any amendment made in the application after receipt of 
hard copy shall not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications shall be rejected without a prior 
notice. applications received after the closing date shall not be accepted.
 if candidates with special needs appear for this examination, it must be mentioned in the application and copies of 
relevant medical certificates must be submitted with the application.
09.  Providing of false information – While filling the application accurate information should be provided with consideration. 
if any candidate is found ineligible as per the rules of this examination, his/ her candidature can be cancelled before or 
during the examination or after the examination or at any time.
10.  Printed copy of the application should be sent by registered post on or before the 14
th  day of march, 2025 as to be 
received to “commissioner General of Examinations , institutional Examination organization branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, P.o. 1503 , colombo. Name of the examination should be mentioned at the top left corner of 
the envelop.  Applications sent after this date shall be rejected. 
11.  With the presumption that only the candidates fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification have applied 
for the examination, on or before the last date of acceptance of applications, if making the payment of examination fees 
is applicable, the relevant prescribed examination fee shall be paid by the applicants and for those who have completed 
applications, commissioner General of Examinations will issue the examination admission. an announcement stating 
the same shall be published on the official website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as soon as the 
admissions are issued to the applicants. if the admission has not been received within 02 or 03 days after the publication 
of the announcement, applicants should inform such to department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as mentioned in the 
announcement. the applicant's full name, address, National identity card number and the name of the exam should be 
mentioned in the notice. If the applicant is from outside of Colombo, it is more effective to send a request letter to the 
fax number mentioned in the advertisement with a fax number where a copy of the admission can be sent along with the 
details. It shall be useful to keep the copy of the application kept with him/her to confirm the candidate's candidacy, the 
copy of the receipt if the payment of the examination fee is applicable and the receipt registered at the time of posting 
the application, if necessary at the time of making the enquiry from the department of Examination, Sri Lanka. the 
issuance of an admission card for the examination to an applicant shall not be considered that he or she has already 
fulfilled the qualifications to be appeared at the examination.
 Note: complaints submitted subsequently by applicants who fail to meet the requirements mentioned in paragraph 11 
above shall not be considered.
12.  the applicant's signature must be attested in both the application form and the admission card for the examination. the 
signature should be certified by the head of the institution or an officer authorized by him.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
277
13.  an applicant should appear for the examination under the prescribed examination number in the examination hall 
allocated to him/ her. Every candidate appearing for the examination should hand over the admission card with his/her 
signature to the head of the examination hall on the first day of the examination. A candidate who does not submit his 
admission card duly shall not be allowed to appear in the examination.
14.  it is the responsibility of the candidates to submit evidence to the satisfaction of the Head of the Examination Hall in 
order to confirm their identity for each subject they appear in the examination hall. For this a following document shall 
only be accepted.
 i. National id card ,
 ii. Valid passport or ,
 iii. Valid driving license of Sri Lanka
candidate should enter the examination hall without covering their faces and ear to ensure that they are not wearing 
electronic communication devices and should not cover their face by restricting to verify their identity. those who 
refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, from the time of entering in 
to the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, the applicant must remain uncovered their face 
and ears as to the examination authorities could identify the candidate.
15.  Examination fees:
 (a)  Fees shall not be charged for the first attempt.
 (b) thereafter, Rs. 1,200.00 is charged for each time for the full examination and Rs. 600.00 each shall be charged 
for one subject.
While paying the examination fees, the payment should be made only under the following fee payment methods 
provided through the online system. 
 i. any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the Facility of internet transactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
 Note:
 (a) instructions on how to make payment through the above methods have been published in  the website under 
the technical instructions relevant to the Examination Posted under instructions.
 (b) The receipt of payment  shall be notified by means of a short message ( SMS) or by an e-mail. The full amount 
of examination fee shall be paid and applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be 
rejected. The Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka  shall not be held responsible for any short comings 
encountering in the payment of examination fees through the above mentioned payment methods.
 (c) the amount paid for the examination shall not be refunded or transferred for any other examination for any 
reason.
16. candidates are required to adhere the rules laid down by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding 
the examination. Violation of these rules will be made him or her liable to a penalty imposed by the commissioner  
General of Examinations.
17.  Examination Results :
 i. the decision of the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the holding of the examination and the 
release of the results shall be final and conclusive.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
278
 ii. the commissioner General of Examinations shall provide the result sheets containing the results of all the 
candidates who appeared for the examination, to the Secretary, Ministry of Education, Higher Education and 
V ocational Education
18. In case of if there is any inconsistency among the language texts of this notification published in the Sinhala, Tamil, or 
English languages, the Sinhala text will prevail in such an instance.
19.  the Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and V ocational Education Reserves the right of deciding 
on any matter which is not covered by this notification.
   Nalaka Kaluwewa,
   Secretary,
   Ministry of Education,Higher Education and  
   V ocational Education.
05th of February, 2025, 
battaramulla,                  
isurupaya,           
Ministry of Education, Higher Education and V ocational Education.
02-86
_____________________________________
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION , hIGhER  EDuCATION  AND  vOCATIONAL  EDuCATION
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Grade III Officers of Sri Lanka Education Administrative 
Service - 2025
it is hereby informed that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade III Officers of Sri Lanka Education Administrative 
Service is Scheduled to be held in May 2025. 
application has been published on the website of department of Examinations of Sri Lanka under "our Services" of  
www.doenets.lk  in "online applications- Recruitment Exams/Eb  Exams" and applications can be submitted via online only. 
acceptance of online applications is opened at 9.00 am on the 17
th  of February 2025  and is ended  at 9.00 pm the 14 th  of 
March 2025.  after submitting the application online, it should be downloaded and the relevant parts of the printed copy 
should be filled in by hand, the signature of the applicant should be authenticated, and together with the certificate of the 
Head of the relevant institution, should be sent by registered post to the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as to be 
received on or before the last date of close of applications.
02. Syllabus and other provisions relevant to this examination  has been published in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification 
No.1928/28 dated 21.08.2015 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. the syllabus and other provisions are 
given below for your convenience.
03. Details of the Examination :
Question paper Time Total Marks Passing Marks
1. General administration time 03 hours 100 40
2. Financial administration  time 03 hours 100 40
3. Education Law, administration and 
Evaluation
time 03 hours 100 40

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
279
4. Exam conducting authority : commissioner General of Examinations
5. Syllabus of the Examination  : 
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
01. General administration (a)  t he constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and the constitutions of 1972 and 1947 that were in force
prior to this.
• Convention on the Rights of the Child
• Human Rights Commission Act
• Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or
corruption act 
(b) Office and Field organization methods and the Chapters in
the Establishments code as ( including the contemporary
amendments being executed.) V ii, ix , x . x V i, xx V , xx V i,
xx V ii, xxix , xxxi , xxxii , x LV ii, x LV iii
(c) Procedural rules of the Public Service commission.
02. Financial Regulations (a) Public Financial Regulations.
( Excluding the chapter i/ including the amendments being
executed contemporarily)
(b)  i ncome and Expenditure estimates in the current year. Ex: - their
formulation, revenue heading, monetary and appropriation
bills.
(c) o rdinance and other law conventions relevant to the certain
accounting activities fulfilled by the zonal education office.
03. Education law,
administration and Evaluation
(a) Legal provisions relevant to the Education.
• Education Ordinance No.31 of 1939
• Amendment No.26 of 1947
• Amendment No.05 of 1951
• Amendment No.43 of 1953
• Code of Minute on Government Schools
• Amended Act (Special Provisions) of Assisted Schools and
teachers’  colleges No.05 of 1960
• Amended Act (Additional Provisions) of Assisted Schools and
teachers’  colleges No.05 of 1960
• Education Act (Revising the designations) No.35 of 1973
• Amended Act (Special Provisions) of Assisted Schools and
teachers’  colleges No.65 of 1981
• National Institute of Education Act, No.28 of 1985
• Public Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968
• National College of Education Act, No.30 of 1986
• Minutes of the National Education Commission.(Within
immediate  03 years  to the examination)
•
Facilities and services fee
• Circulars relevant to the Old Boys/Girls Associations and School
development associations.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
280
(b) Education administration.
1.   (i) Ministry of Education
   (ii) organisation and Performance of departments and 
Establishments availed under the Ministry including 
Provincial department of Education and in the Ministry 
of Education.
          (iii)  Implementing Education Planning and Common Objectives 
(aims) at the National and Provincial Levels (including 
Schools preparation) 
 2.  School Management and School community Relationships
3.   Education Management information System.(EMiS)
4. Special Education Programmes, Non Formal Education 
activities, School based Management. 
(c) Evaluation.
• Criteria utilizing to assess evaluation of the performance of 
teachers.
• School based evaluation.
• Self-Evaluation programmes of the Schools
• Monitoring of the schools by the zonal education Office, 
Provincial departments of Education and Ministry of 
Education
• Supervision of the internal evaluation by the external groups.
     (candidates are instructed to be thorough with the hand books 
and other publications issued by the Ministry of Education)
        
N.b.- Please note that all the three papers are consisting with short questions and structural type questions.
06.  For the subjects Scheduled for the 1
st  efficiency bar Examination may be appearred by an Officer at the same time or at 
several separate occasions.
07.  Language Medium of Examination :
 i.  the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums.
 ii.  candidates should appear for the exam in only one language as per their preference.
 iii.  The medium of the language of the competitive examination in which the candidate qualified to enter the public 
service. In case of those who have joined the public service without an examination, the answers should be 
written in the medium of the language in which they were qualified to enter the public service.
 iv.  if a candidate is found to be appearing in the examination through a medium to which he is not entitled, his/her 
candidature shall be cancelled. the language medium applied for the examination cannot be altered later.
08.  online examination application should be completed in English language only. after the department of Examination 
receives both the soft copy made online and the printout sent by registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy shall 
be verified and accepted by the department as a valid application. The mobile phone number used to access the system 
will be notified by a SMS or an e -mail  that it is accepted/ not accepted as valid application by the Department. Before 
completion of the online application, download the instructions for applying for the exam. Follow the instructions 
carefully while filling the application form. Any amendment made in the application after receipt of hard copy will 
not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without a prior notice. Applications 
received after the closing date will not be accepted.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
281
if candidates with special needs appear for this examination, it must be mentioned in the application and copies of 
relevant medical certificates must be submitted with the application.
09. Providing of false information – While filling the application accurate information should be provided with consideration. 
if any candidate is found ineligible as per the rules of this examination, his/ her candidature can be cancelled before or 
during the examination or after the examination or at any time.
10.  Printed copy of the application should be sent by registered post on or before the 14
th  day of March, 2025 as to be 
received to “commissioner General of Examinations , institutional Examination organization branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, P.o. 1503 , colombo. Name of the examination should be mentioned at the top left corner of 
the envelop. Applications sent after this date shall be rejected. 
11.  With the presumption that only the candidates fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification have applied 
for the examination, on or before the last date of acceptance of applications, if making the payment of examination fees 
is applicable, the relevant prescribed examination fee shall be paid by the applicants and for those who have completed 
applications, commissioner General of Examinations will issue the examination admission. an announcement stating 
the same shall be published on the official website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as soon as the 
admissions are issued to the applicants. if the admission has not been received within 02 or 03 days after the publication 
of the announcement, applicants should inform such to department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as mentioned in the 
announcement. the applicant's full name, address, National identity card number and the name of the exam should be 
mentioned in the notice. If the applicant is from outside of Colombo, it is more effective to send a request letter to the 
fax number mentioned in the advertisement with a fax number where a copy of the admission can be sent along with the 
details. It shall be useful to keep the copy of the application kept with him/her to confirm the candidate's candidacy, the 
copy of the receipt if the payment of the examination fee is applicable and the receipt registered at the time of posting 
the application, if necessary at the time of making the enquiry from the department of Examination, Sri Lanka. the 
issuance of an admission card for the examination to an applicant shall not be considered that he or she has already 
fulfilled the qualifications to be appeared at the examination.
        N.B.- complaints submitted subsequently by applicants who fail to meet the requirements mentioned in paragraph 11 
above shall not be considered.
12.  the applicant's signature should be attested in both the application form and the admission card for the examination. 
The signature should be certified by the head of the institution or an officer authorized by him.
13.  an applicant should appear for the examination under the prescribed examination number in the examination hall 
allocated to him/ her. Every candidate appearing for the examination should hand over the admission card with his/her 
signature to the head of the examination hall on the first day of the examination. A candidate who does not submit his 
admission card duly shall not be allowed to appear in the examination.
14.  it is the responsibility of the candidates to submit evidence to the satisfaction of the Head of the Examination Hall in 
order to confirm their identity for each subject they appear in the examination hall. For this a following document shall 
only be accepted.
 i. National id card ,
 ii. Valid passport or ,
 iii. Valid driving license of Sri Lanka.
candidate should enter the examination hall without covering their faces and ear to ensure that they are not wearing 
electronic communication devices and should not cover their face by restricting to verify their identity. those who 
refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, from the time of entering in 
to the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, the applicant must remain uncovered their face 
and ears as to the examination authorities could identify the candidate.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'14
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.02.2025
282
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNka.
15.  Examination fees:
(a) Fees shall not be charged for the first attempt.
(b) thereafter, Rs. 1,200.00 is charged for each time for the full examination and Rs. 600.00 each will be charged 
for one subject.
While paying the examination fees, the payment should be made only under the following fee payment methods 
provided through the online system.
 i. any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the Facility of internet transactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
Note:
 (a) instructions on how to make payment through the above methods have been published in  the website under the 
technical instructions relevant to the Examination Posted under instructions.
 (b) The receipt of payment  shall be notified by a short message ( SMS) or by an e-mail. The full amount of 
examination fee will be paid and applications with under or over payment of examination fee will be rejected. 
the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka  will not be held responsible for any short comings encountering 
in the payment of examination fees through the above mentioned payment methods.
(c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination for any 
reason.
candidates are required to adhere the rules laid down by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding 
the examination. Violation of these rules will be made him or her liable to a penalty imposed by the commissioner  
General of Examinations.
17.  Examination Results :
i. the decision of the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the holding of the examination and the 
release of the results shall be final and conclusive.
ii.  the commissioner General of Examinations will provide the result sheets containing the results of all the 
candidates who appeared for the examination, to the Secretary, Ministry of Education, Higher Education and 
V ocational Education
18.  In case of if there is any inconsistency among the language texts of this notification published in the Sinhala, Tamil, or 
English languages, the Sinhala text will prevail in such an instance.
19. the Secretary of the Ministry of Education , Higher Education and V ocational Education
     Reserves the right of deciding on any matter which is not covered by this notification.
   Nalaka Kaluwewa,
   Secretary,
   Ministry of Education,Higher Education and  
   V ocational Education.
battaramulla,                  
isurupaya,           
Ministry of Education, Higher Education and         
V ocational Education,
05th of February, 2025.
02-87