

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1668
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"239 – 2021 cQ,s ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'07'30
No. 2,239 –  FRIDAY,  JULY 30, 2021
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th August, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th August, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1665 - B 82253 - 5,403 (07/2021)      
Note.–    (i) Human Rights Organization (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 16th of July.
 (ii) Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 16th of July.
 (iii) Samadhi Meditation and Yoga Centre (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 16th of July.
N. B.–   Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2,238 of 22.07.2021 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1666
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General  :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1667
RULES AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR EXAMINATION CANDIDATES
All examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
The following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the Commissioner General Examinations.
All examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
 I. Debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 III. Imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 IV . Debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . Issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations Act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 VIII. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. Also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. Actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective Index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. Absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. A candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s Index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
Further, writing other examination candidate’s Index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing Index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. Acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. Any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. It is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. If a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. It is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. All such materials are belonged to the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. Also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. In case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the Commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. After sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. In case the supervisor or the examination staff  
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. It is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. Also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. Impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. Tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 I. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 II. It is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) Actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 IV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 VI. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 VII. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the Index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. You should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. You should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 VIII. The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. Actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 IX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. The 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. You should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 XI. At the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. Any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 XII. Your answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. Failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 XIII. If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
Commissioner General of the Examinations.
At the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1668
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF HEALTH  
Departmental   Examination   for   Preliminary   
Grade Medical   Officers   and   Dental   
Surgeons – September,  2021
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination 
which should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary 
Grade before promotion to Grade II, that is within during a 
period of two years and Dental Surgeons before confirmation 
in the service within a period of three years from the 
date of appointment to such post as per Section 08 of the 
Medical Service Minute of Sri Lanka in the Health Services 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 11.10.2014, 
will be held on 12.09.2021 in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be 
mentioned in the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary 
Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service 
can apply for this examination. Medical Officer appointed 
to a post in the Administrative Grade or Specialist Grade 
previously without having completed this examination also 
can apply for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– Applications that should be prepared 
by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this 
circular must be handed over to the Head of the institute on 
or before 06.08.2021. The applications that are certified as 
all the eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded 
to the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health, 
“Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa 
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 12.08.2021 
through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division 
should certify the accuracy of contents in each application. 
A self addressed envelope in the size of 9” x 4” inches, 
affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 45.00 should be 
sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their 
official or private address). Applications which are received 
late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using 
an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the 
application so that from 01 to 04 (e) on the first 
front page and from 04(f) to 09 is on the second 
page. Applications which do not conform to above 
will be rejected without further notice. 
04. Examination fees :
 I.  Candidates who sit the examination for the first 
time will be exempted from pay examination 
fees. However, other candidates should affix 
stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the 
stamps cage provided for in the application and 
cancel same by placing their signature and the 
date.
 II. The fees once paid will not be allowed to 
transfer for any other Examination or refunded 
under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
 I.  Candidates whose applications have been 
accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. 
They should duly complete and submit same 
to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. 
Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the 
examination.
 II.  Candidates should prove their identity to the 
Supervisor at the examination hall. For this 
purpose one of the following documents will be 
accepted :
 (a)  National Identity Card ;
 (b)  A formal identity card issued by the 
Ministry of Health or a relevant institution ;
 (c)  Valid Driving License ;
 (d)  Valid Passport.
 III. If you did not receive your admission card 
due to any unavoidable reason you can trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
through the web site ; If you were able to trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
as mentioned above you are permitted to be 
presented at the examination centre mentioned in 
the web site together with a letter attesting your 
signature by your immediate superior officer 
and sit the examination after confirming of your 
identity. The applicants who have received the 
admission cards should certify their signatures 
and should be brought. The applicants who have 
not obtained the certification on their signature 
will not be entitled to face the examination. 
(Web site : www.health.gov.lk).

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1669
06. Scheme of the Examination. – The examination consists of four parts that is three written essay type question 
papers and a Sinhala/Tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. A minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each part 
to pass the examination and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the examination 
in several sittings. At the first attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the Examination  :
07.1 Written Examination  :
 07.1.1  Establishments Code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions.  
  Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the Department of Health Services in Health Ministry ;
 (ii)  Orders and Regulations of the Public Service Commission ;
 (iii) Establishments Code  :
Part I - Chapters VI, VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XV , XVI, XVII, XVIII, XXIII, XXIV , XXV , XXVI, 
XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII
Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
 07.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  Health Manual :
 (i) Administration of Hospital and Public Health, 
 (ii) Management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) Management of Drugs.
 07.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.  
Chapter I - F. R. 1, 2, 78.
Chapter II - F. R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
Chapter III - F. R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 
151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
Chapter V - F. R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
Chapter VI - F. R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
Chapter VII - F. R. 488, 493.
Chapter XIII - F. R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.
Procurement Guideline : 
Chapter 1 - All Sections
Chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
Chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voice - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure the 
proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium and the 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1670
ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that arise while 
discharging their normal duties is tested. Duration 10 minutes. 
8. To follow the Regulations Related to Examination Procedure.– Candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. Candidates should 
not attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any other candidate and should not obtain help 
from another candidate or person. Furthermore Mobile phones and similar electronic equipments should not be used. Any 
candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 
9. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
Campaign/Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– In case of any inconsistency between the texts Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala Language 
shall prevail.
 Dr. S. H. Munasinghe,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Health. 
Ministry of Health,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
20th July, 2021.
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR  PRELIMINARY  GRADE
MEDICAL  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAL  SURGEONS - SEPTEMBER, 2021
01. (a)  (i)  Full Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Full Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals Block Letters) :
 (iii)  Name with initials (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Name with initials (In English Block Letters) :
  (b)  (i)  Designation (Please mark () in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer :   (ii) Dental Surgeon :
 (ii)  Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade II :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1671
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 Admin. of Hospitals and Dispensaries : Establishment Code :  Accounts :
 Sinhala Viva Voce : Tamil Viva Voce :
03. Medium you sit for the examination  (Mark ‘’ in relevant cage)
 Sinhala :                      English :                       Tamil :
04.  (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) This Institution belongs to :  Line Ministry :
       Provincial Council :
 (b)   (i)  If Provincial Council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 (c) Mobile Telephone No. :
 (d) National Identity Card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or 
several examination centers, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due 
to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers 
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of 
Health Services).
  Colombo Kandana Hambantota Ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna Trincomalee
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelopes in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 45.00 has 
been attached to the application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
 (g)   (i)   Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
    ...........................................................
   (ii)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In English) :––––––––––––.
    ..........................................................
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and I need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of                  

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1672
Rs. ………… since I repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and 
not used.
 (ii)  I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Ministry of Health, for the conduct of this 
Examination and if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with 
whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File : 
I certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the applicant 
in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this application is 
attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................... serves as a ................................ in this institution, and the 
particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal file, and                     
he/she sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of Institution.
 (Rubber Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………...............................…… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/
Campaign* and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars 
available in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
 Specialized Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :––––––––––––.
(* - Delete words which are inapplicable)
07–739

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1673
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE 
SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS  SERVICE - 2021
APPLICATIONS  are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Competitive Examination for recruitment on 
limited basis upon the vacant posts in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service. 
The relevant application has been published in the website of the Sri Lanka Examination Department, www.
doenets.lk  and applications can be submitted only through online. Once the application is submitted online, it should be 
downloaded and the signature of the applicant should be attested in the printed copy with the certification of the Head of 
the Institution. Thereafter, it should be sent by the registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Institutional Examination Organization Branch, Sri Lanka Examination Department, P. B. 1503, Colombo on or before 
the closing date of applications. “Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
Accountants Service – 2021” should be clearly marked  on the top left corner of the envelope . The closing date of receiving 
applications will be at 24:00 hrs on 23 rd of August 2021.
The First Part of this examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations only at 
Colombo in September or October 2021 subject to the orders of the Public Service Commission. Arrangements will be 
made to conduct the examination Island wide only upon special circumstances that may arise in the country. However, 
when a sufficient number of applicants have not applied for any examination center, the applicants who have expressed their 
preference for that center will be directed to another examination center (please refer the application for more details). The 
Commissioner General of Examinations reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to the orders of the 
Public Service Commission.
Note : The printed copy of the application should compulsorily be sent by the registered post. The complaints on 
the loss or delay of the printed copy in the mail will not be considered. The inconveniences that may cause 
due to the delay in sending applications until the closing date should be borne by the applicants themself.
1. The “Appointing Authority” mentioned in this notice means the Public Service Commission and the  “Service” 
means the Sri Lanka Accountants Service.
2. Method of Recruitment :
2.1. Written Examination.– The Common Competitive Examination for recruitment to the posts in All-Island 
Services and Executive Service Category of the public service is applicable in this regard. This competitive 
examination shall consist of two parts as follows. Only the applicants who obtain 40% of the marks or 
more for each question paper and aggregate marks of 100 or more for the First Part (Common Part) will 
be called for the Second Part of the examination.
First Part (Common Part)
Question Paper Duration Maximum Marks Minimum marks to be passed
1. Intelligence Test 1 ½ Hours 100 40
2. Comprehension 02 Hours 100 40
 
 Second Part 
Service Subject 
No. Question Paper Duration Maximum 
Marks
Minimum Marks to 
be passed
Sri Lanka 
Accountants 
Service 
21 Financial and Managerial Accounting 03 Hours 100 40
22 Advanced Auditing and Economic 
Analysis
03 Hours 100 40

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1674
2.2.  Interview.- Of the applicants who sat all the question papers of the written examination, only those who 
obtained at least 40% of the marks or more out of the prescribed marks for every written question paper 
will be called for an interview for verification of qualifications according to the order of merit of the marks 
they have obtained. The date of conducting that interview will be decided by order of the Public Service 
Commission. Upon the order of merit of the aggregate marks obtained at the written examination, the 
applicants will be selected to be appointed to the vacant posts in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants 
Service in the Executive Service Category of the public service on limited basis. 
3. The number of vacancies expected to be filled on limited basis by this examination is 101. The number to be 
appointed to this post and the effective date of the appointment will be decided by order of the Public Service Commission. 
The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill a certain number of vacancies or all vacancies. In an instance where 
the candidates who have obtained equal marks for the final vacancy or final few vacancies are exceeding the number of 
vacancies, the decision on filling such number of vacancies will be made by the Public Service Commission as per Section 
80 of the Procedural Rules.
4. Recruitment Qualifications :
(a) (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Should have an excellent moral character.
 (iii) Should be physically fit and mentally sound to serve in any part of the country and discharge the duties 
of the post
(b)  Educational/ Professional Qualifications and Experience :
 (i) Should have earned at least 5 salary increments on due days and completed a satisfactory, uninterrupted 
and permanent period of service of not less than 05 years in the public service/ provincial public service 
with any of the following qualifications as at the date on which the notice calling for application is 
published.
 (a) Should have obtained a degree in Commerce, Management, Accountancy, Economics from a 
University recognized by the University Grant Commission;
  Or
 (b) Should be a holder of Higher Diploma in Accountancy or Commerce or Higher National Diploma 
in Management from the Sri Lanka Technical College/ Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technical 
Education/ Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education;
  Or
 (c) Should have passed the Licentiate II or Intermediate Examination or Certificate II in Accounting 
and Business or Business Level Examination or Corporate Level Examination or a higher 
examination of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or an Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in any other Commonwealth Country;  
  Or
 (d) Should have passed the Parts I and II or Intermediate Examination of Cost and Management 
Examination or higher examination conducted by the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants of the United Kingdom or in any other Commonwealth Country ;
  Or
 (e) Should have passed the 1 st professional level or higher level examination of the Institute of 
Certified Accountants of the United Kingdom or in any other Commonwealth Country;
  Or

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1675
 (f) Should have passed the Parts I 
and II Examination or higher level 
examination of the Association of 
Chartered Certified Accountants 
of the United Kingdom or in any 
other Commonwealth Country;
  Or
 (g) Should have passed the Final 
Examination of the Institute 
of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators of the United 
Kingdom;
  Or
 (h) Should have passed the 
Management Level or a higher 
level examination of the Institute 
of Certified Management 
Accountants of Sri Lanka.
    OR
 (ii) Should have completed a satisfactory 
period of service of not less than 10 
years in a permanent and pensionable 
post in the public service or provincial 
public service which carries the Salary 
Scale of MN 1 – 2006 (A) or above 
salary scale and earned a minimum of 
10 salary increments on the due date.
 (c) Restrictions on Qualifications  :
 (i) Should have satisfied all the 
qualifications required to apply for 
this examination in every aspect on or 
before the date of publishing the Gazette 
notification for calling applications.
 (ii) No person who is ordained in any 
religious order shall be allowed to 
apply or sit for this examination.
 (iii) Should have earned all salary 
increments on the due dates during the 
immediately preceding five years in 
acquiring the qualifications required for 
applying.
 (iv) Should have not been subjected to a 
disciplinary punishment as at the date 
of examining the qualifications as per 
the provisions in the Public Service 
Commission Circular No. 01/2020. 
 (v) No person will be allowed to sit the 
Limited Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the Sri Lanka 
Accountants Service (including 
the Special Limited Competitive 
Examination conducted for the 
Northern and Eastern Provinces) more 
than twice.
 (vi) In order to accept that an applicant 
has fulfilled the qualifications for 
the competitive examination for 
appointment to the service, he should 
have fulfilled all qualifications stated in 
Section 4 in every aspect on or before 
the date of publishing the Gazette 
notification for calling applications.
5. General Conditions on Recruitment :
5.1.  A selected candidate will be appointed to Grade 
III of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service subject to 
the general conditions governing the appointments 
of the public service, conditions set out in the 
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants 
Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary 
No. 1670/33 dated 10 th of September 2010 of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
amendments made or to be made in future to that 
Service Minute, provisions of the Establishments 
Code and Financial Regulations, other 
departmental orders and the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service Commission published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009.
5.2. This post is permanent and pensionable. 
Furthermore, you are required to contribute to 
the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme / 
Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
Note : The officers who were appointed to a post 
in the public service after 01.01.2016 shall be 
required to be subject to a policy decision made by 
the Government in future on the Pension Scheme.
5.3.  The officers recruited will be subject to an acting 
period of one year. They should pass the first 
efficiency bar examination within 03 years from 
the recruitment as stated in the Service Minute.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1676
5.4. The candidates should acquire proficiency in the 
prescribed official language/ languages within 05 
years from the recruitment to the post as per the 
Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020.
5.5. The officers should report for duty in any part of 
the Island in which they are called upon to serve.
5.6. The appointments of the applicants who fail to 
assume duties of the post offered to him and/ or 
reject or avoid the assumption of duties of a post 
or an area where he is appointed, on the prescribed 
date shall be cancelled upon the orders of the 
Public Service Commission.
6. Salary Structure and Monthly Salary Scale .- The 
Monthly Salary Scale applicable to these posts as per 
Schedule I of Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 
dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 47,615 - 10 x 1,335 – 8 x 1630 -  
17 x 2,170 - 110,895/-   (SL I -2016). In addition to that, 
you will also be entitled to other allowances paid to public 
officers by the Government from time to time.
7. Examination Conditions  :
 I. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English Languages. Candidates can sit this 
examination in any one of these languages 
of their choice. Candidates should answer all 
question papers of the services he applies for 
and select only one medium of language for all 
the papers. Candidates will not be allowed to 
change the medium of examination produced 
by them in the application form. 
 II. The online application of the examination 
should be filled only in English Language. 
In addition to the soft copy of the application 
submitted online by the applicant, a printed 
copy thereof should also be sent by the 
registered post. Once the Department of 
Examinations receives both the soft copy and 
printed copy of the application, those copies 
will be verified and the applicant will be 
informed whether the Department accepted/ 
did not accept it as a valid application by 
sending an SMS message to the mobile phone. 
Before filling the online application, please 
download the Common Instructions Sheet 
prepared for the examination. Follow these 
instructions thoroughly when the application is 
filled. A printed copy of the application should 
be kept in hand to produce in the inquiries made 
at later occasions. Any revision made after 
taking a printout of the application will not be 
considered as a valid revision. The incomplete 
applications will be rejected without notice.  
 III. The examination fee for the First Part of this 
examination is Rs. 1000/- (One thousand). 
The fee of Rs. 300/- (Three hundred) per each 
question paper should be paid for the Second 
Part of this examination. The payment of 
examination fee for the Second Part should 
be made after passing the First Part. When the 
examination fee is paid, the payments should 
be made only through the following payment 
methods provided in the online system.
 (i) Any Bank Credit Card ;
 (ii) Any Bank Debit Card with Internet 
Payment Facility ;
 (iii) Bank of Ceylon Online Banking System ;
 (iv) Any branch of the Bank of Ceylon ;
 (v) A Post Office of the Department of Posts.
Note.– Instructions on the manner in which the 
payments are made through the above 
methods are published under Technical 
Instructions of the Examination on 
the website of the Department of 
Examinations. 
 IV . Acknowledgement of the payment will be 
informed by an SMS. When payment is 
made for the Second Part of the examination, 
the candidate should pay Rs. 300/- (Three 
hundred) per each question paper of all the 
services he has applied for.  This fee should 
be paid when obtaining the admission card for 
the Second Part after passing over the First 
Part of the examination. The prescribed full 
amount of the examination fee should be paid 
as applicable and the applications for which 
the payments have been made less or more 
than the examination fee will be rejected. 
The Department of Examinations will not 
be responsible for the errors occurring in the 
payment of examination fees by the above 
payment methods.
 V . The fee paid for the examination will not be 
refunded or transferred in respect of any other 
examination under any circumstance.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1677
 VI. The signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and the admission card of the 
examination should have been attested. An 
applicant who is applying for the examination 
should get his/her signature attested by the 
Head of the Institution or by any other officer 
authorized by him.
Note : No candidate is allowed to enter the 
examination hall without the admission 
card. Only an admission card in which 
the signature of the candidate is attested 
should be presented to the supervisor 
on the date of commencement of 
the examination. The issuance of an 
admission card to a candidate shall not 
be treated as an acceptance that he or 
she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit 
the examination or for a post.
 VII. On the assumption that only those who possess 
the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
Notification have sent applications, the 
Commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to the applicants who 
fall within the age limit specified in the notice 
and who have paid the relevant examination 
fees and duly submitted their applications 
through online and sent the printed copy by 
registered post on or before the closing date 
of applications. Immediately after the issuance 
of admission cards to the applicants, a notice 
thereon will be published in newspapers and 
the website of the Department of Examinations. 
If the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such notice, steps should 
be taken to make inquiries thereon from 
the Institutional Examination Organization 
Branch of the Department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the notice. The 
name of the relevant examination and the 
full name, address and national identity card 
number of the applicant should be correctly 
mentioned when making such inquiry. In case 
of an applicant outside Colombo, it would be 
advisable to send a request letter to the fax 
number mentioned in the notice, furnishing a 
fax number by which he can promptly obtain 
a copy of the admission card. It would also be 
advisable to keep the copy of the application 
form, receipt of payment of examination fee 
and receipt of postal registration of the printout 
of the application form in hand to confirm 
any matter inquired by the Department of 
Examinations. 
Note : For the Second Part of the examination 
(Specific Part for the relevant service), 
a new admission card will be issued 
only to the applicants who obtain 
40% of the marks or more for each 
paper and aggregate marks of 100 
or more for the First Part (Common 
Part) of the written examination. 
 VIII. Candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and releasing the results. He 
or She shall be liable to be subjected to a 
punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations in case of violation 
of these rules and regulations.  
 IX. Candidates of the examination shall be 
required to prove his/her identity at the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he/she appears 
for. For this purpose, any of the following 
documents will be accepted.
  (i) National Identity Card ;
  (ii) Valid Passport ;
  (iii) Valid Driving License of Sri Lanka.
  Furthermore, the candidates should enter the 
examination hall without covering their faces 
and ears in order to prove their identity. The 
applicants who refuse to prove their identity in 
the said manner shall not be allowed to enter 
the examination hall.  Moreover, the applicants 
should remain in the examination hall from the 
time of entering up to leaving the examination 
hall upon completion of the examination 
without covering the face and ears enabling the 
invigilators to identify the applicants.
 X. For the applicants who expect to appear for 
both the competitive examinations conducted 
on open basis and limited basis
  The applicants who apply for the competitive 
examination for recruitment to Grade III of the 
Sri Lanka Accountants Service on open basis 
and limited basis shall have to face the same 
examination. Hence,  

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1678
 (i) An applicant who applies for 
recruitment to the Sri Lanka 
Accountants Service on open basis 
too under the Common Competitive 
Examination for recruitment to the 
posts in All-Island Services and 
Executive Service Category of the 
Public Service – 2021 published 
in the Gazette No. 2,234 dated 
16.07.2021 should submit such 
application first and mention the 
reference number received for 
that application in No. 2.0 of this 
application. 
 (ii) In case of an application for 
recruitment to the Sri Lanka 
Accountants Service on open basis, 
made by an applicant who has not 
mentioned the relevant reference 
number in No. 2.0 of this application, 
it shall thereby be cancelled and 
even if he receives an admission 
card for the open examination for 
recruitment, his candidature for that 
examination will be considered as 
cancelled.
 (iii) It is the responsibility of the 
applicants to keep the reference 
number given for the open 
recruitment safe.
8. Penalty for false information.- If it is revealed that a 
candidate does not possess the required qualifications, his / 
her candidature is liable to be annulled at any stage before or 
during or after the examination. If it is revealed that any of 
false information has been furnished by a candidate within 
him/ her knowledge or if he/ she has willfully suppressed a 
material fact, he or she will be liable for dismissal from the 
public service.
If any of the above matters is revealed after the 
appointment, all sums of money already paid under this 
appointment as salaries and allowances by the Government/ 
Provincial Council will be recovered.
9. Matters not provided for in these regulations will be 
decided by the Public Service Commission. 
10. Medium of Examination : 
(a) This examination will be held in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English Languages. 
(b) The medium in which the candidate sits the 
examination will be treated as the medium of 
appointment. 
(c) Candidates should answer all question papers 
in one medium of language. 
(d) Candidates will not be allowed to change the 
medium of examination mentioned in the 
application form.
11. Procedure of Examination, Interview and Appointment :
11.1 Written Examination
 11.1.1.  First Part (Common Part)
Question Paper Syllabus Nature of the Question Paper
1. Intelligence Test Shall consist of multiple-choice questions to test 
the candidate’s skills in reasoning, substitution, 
interpretation, relevance awareness, conversion, 
problem solving, understanding of cause & effect 
relationships, prediction, information organization, 
pattern identification and adherence to instructions.
Shall consist of 50 multiple-
choice questions and/ or short 
answer type questions.
100 marks.
1½ Hours
2. Comprehension Shall consist of objective type questions to test the 
candidate’s ability in comprehension and skills 
in communication, summarization, analyzing and 
creativity.
Shall consist of 50 multiple-
choice questions and/ or short 
answer type questions.
100 marks.
02 Hours

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1679
 11.1.2. Second Part
 Every applicant should sit all the question papers of this Specific Part and obtain at least 40 marks for 
each question paper.
(I)  Structure of Question Papers:-
Question Paper Duration Nature of the Question Paper
Financial and Managerial 
Accounting
03 Hours Marks 100, Minimum pass mark is 40.
This question paper consists of 02 parts
(Marks for Part I is 60
Marks for Part II is 40)
Advanced Auditing and 
Economic Analysis
03 Hours Marks 100, Minimum pass mark is 40.
This question paper consists of 02 parts
(Marks for Part I is 60
Marks for Part II is 40)
(II) Syllabus
Financial and Managerial Accounting
(This question paper shall consist of 02 parts and 08 questions)
Part I – Financial Accounting
This part includes five (05) questions. The first question is compulsory and two (02) questions 
have to be selected out of the remaining four (04) questions. All questions carry equal marks.
1. Compulsory Question
This question is to measure the candidate’s ability to apply Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. The 
question has five subparts, each question carries 04 marks.
Following Sri Lanka Accounting Standards are covered under this question.
 • Financial Statements – LKAS 1
 • Property, Plant and Equipment – LKAS 16
 • Revenue – LKAS 18
 • Cash Flow Statement – LKAS 7
 • Inventories – LKAS 2
 • Accounting Policies, Changes in accounting estimates and errors – LKAS 8
 • Events after the reporting period – LKAS 10
 • Leases- LKAS 17
 • Income Taxes – LKAS 12
 • Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets – LKAS 37
 • Financial Instruments – LKAS 39

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1680
2. Conceptual and regulatory framework for Financial Statements
Objectives of general purpose financial statements, Underlying assumptions, Qualitative 
characteristics of financial statements, Elements of financial statements, Recognition 
and measurement of elements of financial statements, Concepts of capital and capital 
maintenance, Provisions in Corporate governance, Companies Act and Securities and 
Exchange Commission regulations and rulings. 
3. Financial Statements of Limited Liability Companies including Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
Identify the sources of funds available for a limited liability company, prepare ledger accounts 
for issue and redemption of shares and debentures and prepare financial statements for the 
purpose of management and publication.
4.  Preparation of Financial Statements for non-profit organizations
5. Financial statement analysis, interpretation and communication of Financial Results, and 
Non- financial reporting 
Part II – Managerial Accounting 
This part includes 03 questions prepared to measure the candidate’s knowledge on the following 
areas and candidates should answer 02 questions. All questions carry equal marks.
1. Aspects of Cost Accounting
Cost classification, Behavior, Estimation, Material and inventory control, Labour cost, 
Specific and continuous order costing
2. Cost Accounting Systems
Absorption costing and marginal costing, Activity-based costing, Process costing, 
Throughput Accounting and Contemporary Management Accounting
3. Financial mathematics for business and project appraisal fundamentals 
Compounding, Discounting
4. Standard costing and Variance analysis
5. Mathematics for business functions
6. Budgeting and Forecasting
Budgeting, Budget preparation and Budgetary control
7. Decision making under uncertainty
Information for short-term and long-term decision making, Cost-volume-profit 
analysis, Further processing pricing and Multi-constraint decision making
8. Working Capital Management
Advanced Auditing and Economic Analysis
(This question paper shall consist of 02 parts and 08 questions)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1681
Part I – Advanced Auditing 
This part includes 05 questions prepared to measure the candidate’s knowledge on the following 
areas and candidates should answer 03 questions. All questions carry equal marks.
1. Different types of audit and objectives of such audits
         Financial audit, Systems audit, Compliance audit, Value for money audit, Performance 
audit, Forensic audit, Internal audit, External audit, Management audit etc.
2. Audit Planning and Control
     Audit planning, timing, interim and final audit, assignments of responsibilities for 
functions, recording the work done including the use of internal control, preparing 
questionnaires and forms for evaluation of internal control.
3. Professional conduct and Ethics
       Integrity, Objectivity in gathering, Evaluating and communicating information about 
the audit activities, Confidentiality of information, Professional obligations and 
Competency in applying the knowledge, skills, and experience. 
4. Legal rights and responsibilities
         Legal responsibility of Accountants and Auditors and related legal provisions.
5. Techniques for risk assessment and management
     Identifying different types of risk, risk management process, techniques and tools 
managing risks.
6. Auditing standards
           International Standards of Auditing (ISAs) and Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs)
7. Functions of internal audit
           Identifying functions of internal audit, objectives of internal audit and Audit Committees
8. Evidence collection
     Identifying different evidence collection methods, Evidence collection process and 
ensuring the validity of the evidence.
9. Reporting functions
       Type of reports, reporting standards, structures, reporting process, audit opinions and 
follow-up process, etc.
Part II – Economic Analysis 
This part includes 03 questions prepared to measure the candidate’s knowledge on the following 
areas and candidates should answer 02 questions. All questions carry equal marks.
1. Understanding Macroeconomic variables
Identifying Macroeconomic variables and leading indexes, purpose of assessment 
of Macroeconomic variables, correlations among Macroeconomic variables and 
current Sri Lankan contexts.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1682
2. National Income Determination and National Income Accounting
Methods of measuring national income, Sectorial contribution of the national
income, capital consumption and capital consumption adjustments, government
consumption and private consumption, national products and welfare and current
Sri Lankan context.
3.
International Trade and Economic Development
Theory of international trade, International trade and economic development,
Balance of Payments and exchange rate behavior and current Sri Lankan context.
4.
Foreign Finance, Foreign Direct Investments, Developing countries debt,
Sustainable Debt Management and current Sri Lankan context.
5. Capital and financial Market, Financial intermediaries and financial instruments.
6. Monetary Policy
7. Fiscal Policy
11.2. General  Interview :
Only a general interview will be conducted. Of the applicants who obtained at least 40% of marks or more 
out of the prescribed marks for each written question paper of the Common Part and Specific Part, only a 
number equivalent to the number of vacancies will be called for the interview according to the order of merit 
of the aggregate marks. The applicants who are confirmed that they have fulfilled the basic qualifications at 
that interview will be selected for appointment. Marks will not be awarded for this interview.
N. B. .-   Only attending the interview will not be considered as a completion of qualifications for granting 
an appointment. 
11.3.  The Commissioner General of Examinations will convey the results to all applicants who appeared for the 
examination, personally by post or on the website www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
12. In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between the texts published in this notice in Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
By order of the Public Service Commission,
J. J. Rathnasiri,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Services, Provincial Councils and Local Government. 
30th of July 2021,
07–754

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1683
COMMON COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS 
IN ALL-ISLAND SERVICES AND EXECUTIVE SERVICE CATEGORY OF THE PUBLIC 
SERVICE – 2021
PUBLIC  Service Commission has ordered to amend the English version of the notification published in the Government 
Gazette No. 2237 dated 16.07.2021 calling applications for the above examination as follows.
Section Amendment
1 Preamble I. Last sentence of the second paragraph shall be amended as; “Applications will be accepted 
from 17 July 2021 to 24:00 hrs 23 August 2021.”
II. First sentence in the third paragraph shall be amended as;
“Commissioner General of Examinations, subject to the directions of the Public Service 
Commission, will conduct this examination in Colombo in September or October of 2021.”
2 Section 6. (b) 
(I)
The age limits for recruitment to the posts of Sri Lanka Scientific Service shall be amended as 
follows in terms of the Fifth Amendment to the Minute of the Sri Lanka Scientific Service published 
in the Government Gazette No 2233/19 dated 22.06.2021.
“Should be not less than twenty-two (22) years and not more than thirty-five (35) years as at the 
date of publication of this notice calling applications in the Government Gazette.”
3 Section 6. (b) 
(II) 2.
The term “Corporate Level II Examination” in subsection (iii) of the Educational Qualifications of 
Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service shall be corrected as “ Corporate Level Examination ”.
4 Section 6. (b) 
(III) 3
The two subjects “Biology”, “Applied Biology” shall be added to the subject list in subsection 
I of the Educational Qualifications of the post of Assistant Director of Department of National 
Zoological Gardens.
5 Section 6. (b) 
(III) 5.
(a) The subsection V of the Educational Qualifications of the post of Assistant Director of 
Department of Wildlife Conservation shall be corrected as follows.
“BSc special or general degree in biological sciences or four-year BSc degree in 
agriculture and a postgraduate degree in any of the subjects specified in IV above”
(b) The following subsection VII shall be added to the Educational Qualifications of the same 
post.
“VII. BSc general degree with a first or second class with two of the subjects from 
among the subjects of Zoology, Botany and Biology as main subjects.”
6 Section 6. (b) 
(III) 6.
(a) Subsection II of the Educational Qualifications of the post of Assistant Forest Conservator 
shall be amended as follows.
“II. BSc special degree in Forestry or Environmental Science  with first or second class, 
or”
(b) Subsection V of the Educational Qualifications of the same post shall be corrected as 
follows.
“BSc degree in biological sciences or four-year BSc degree in agriculture with 
postgraduate degree in Forestry, Botany, Biology, Agriculture, Environmental Sciences or 
Plantation Management.”
7 Section 6. (b) 
(III) 8.
In subsection III of the Educational Qualifications of the post of Assistant Director of the Department 
of National Botanical Gardens, the term “BSc general or special degree in biological sciences” shall 
be substituted for the term “BSc. General Degree in Biological Sciences”.
8 Section 6. (b) 
(III) 9.
Subsection IV of the Educational Qualifications of the post of Assistant Director of the State Ministry 
of Sugarcane, Maize, Cashew, Pepper, Cinnamon, Cloves, Betel Production and Promotion of Allied 
Products and Exports shall be corrected as follows.
“BSc degree in biological sciences or four-year BSc degree in agriculture with postgraduate 
degree in any of the above subjects.”

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'07'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.07.2021
1684
Section Amendment
9 Section 6 (b) 
(III) 10.
The term “Zoology with Entomology as a subject” in subsection I of the educational qualifications 
of the post of Research Officer (Entomology) shall be corrected as “Zoology specialized in 
Entomology”
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
MINISTRY OF LABOUR
The Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer (Sinhala) 
Grade III in the Office of the Commissioner for 
Workmen's Compensation - 2021
THIS is with reference to the notification of examination 
published in the Gazette No. 2234 dated 25.06.2021 on the 
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the 
Post of Stenographer (Sinhala) Grade III in the Office of the 
Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation - 2021. 
The said notification is hereby amended as follows. 
AMENDMENT   
It is hereby informed that the closing date of application 
mentioned in 5 (5.7) in the above Gazette notification 
02. Applications will be accepted till 24:00 hrs 23 August 
2021.
03. If any applicant who has paid the examination fee 
on or before 31 July 2021 in accordance with the original 
notification needs to change the order of preference he/
she has given to services/posts of a service as per this 
amendment, he/she should download the application for 
change of preferences published in the link www.doenets.
lk/downloads and forward it duly filled to be received by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations on or before the 
closing date of applications by registered post to the address 
“Institutional Examination Organization Branch, Sri Lanka 
Examination Department, P.B. 1503, Colombo and via 
email at the address slexamcomp@gmail.com . The top 
left hand corner of the envelope should be clearly marked 
as “Common Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Posts in the All Island Services and Executive 
Service Category of the Public Service – 2021 – Change of 
Preferences”  
04. It is compulsory to send the print copy of the 
application for change of preferences by registered post. 
No complaint of loss or delay in post will be entertained. 
In case, the Commissioner General of Examinations is not 
in receipt of the print copy of such application, the order of 
preferences given in the original application will be taken 
as valid, even though the applicant may have emailed the 
same.
05. For further information in this regard, applicants may 
contact Senior Assistant Secretary (Appointments) of Public 
Service Commission at 011 2136607 during office hours of 
working days.
 M.A.B.Daya Senarath,
 Secretary,
 Public Service Commission.
07–755
calling applications for the Open Competitive Examination 
for the Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer (Sinhala) 
Grade III in the Office of the Commissioner for Workmen's 
Compensation - 2021 has been extended till 09.08.2021 . 
Further, the maximum age limits mentioned in Section 
05 of the said notification is changed to be applicable from 
09.08.2021 which is the closing date of applications. 
 M. P. D. U. K. Mapa Pathirana, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Labour. 
Ministry of Labour, 
On 28th day of July 2021. 
07–756