

<!-- page 1 -->

1139 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2007
1139
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1141
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th October, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 05th October, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,519 _ 2007 §¤àï”åà´Ú 12 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .10.12
No. 1,519 – FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER 12, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2007
1140
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

1141 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2007
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III
of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service—2007
AN Examination for the selection of suitable candidates for recruitment
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service (hereinafter referred to
as the “Service”) will be conducted in Colombo by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations on behalf of the Public Service Commission.
2. Scheme and date of the Examination.—The examination will be
held in 02 parts.
Part I - Written Examination.—This will consist of question papers
in the following subjects and will be held in Colombo in December
2007.
(i) General Paper
(ii) World Affairs I (Political)
(iii) World Affairs II (Economics)
(iv)Essay
(v) Precis
(vi) Multiple Choice Question Paper
Part II - Viva-voce.—Only candidates who have sat for all six
papers of the written examination, have obtained minimum marks of
40% for each subject and the aggregate marks at or above the cut off
point, determined by the Secretary/Foreign Affairs, which will not
be less than 330 marks, shall be called for the viva-voce, provided,
however the number of candidates to be called, shall not exceed five
times the number of vacancies to be filled. The viva-voce will carry
100 marks. Under no circumstances, shall the minimum aggregate
cut-off marks be lowered.
3. Conditions fo Service :
(i) The candidates who are selected based on the results of this
examination will be appointed to Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Foreign Service, in terms of the general conditions governing
appointments in the Public Service and the terms and
conditions set out in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute
2001, subject to any amendments that may have been made
or will be made hereafter to the Minute.
(ii)The post is permanent and pensionable.
4. Monthly Salary.—The following salary scale approved by the
Public Administration Circular 6/2006, segment SL-1-2006 is
applicable to this post.
Salary Scale (per month) - Rs. 22,935 — 10 x 645 — 8 x 790 —
17 x 1050 — 53,555.
(i) Candidates who are appointed to Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Foreign Service - are required to pass three Efficiency Bar
Examinations before reaching the following salary points.
First Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point - Rs. 24,870
Second Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point - Rs. 26,805
Third Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point - Rs. 31,965
(ii) In terms of the Public Administration Circular 20/2001,
officers are required to pass the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination within 03 years of the appointment and 2nd
Efficiency Bar Examination within 06 years of the
appointment.
(iii) In terms of the Public Administration Circular 7/2007,
officers who are recruited to the Public Service should gain
proficiency in the second official language(s) within 05 years
of the appointment.
5. Health and Character.—The candidates must satisfy the
Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs that he/she is of sound health
and that he/she has an excellent moral character. He/she should be
physically fit for the service in any part of the world. Selected
candidates will be called upon to undergo a special medical
examination.
6. Eligibility.—A candidate must
(i) be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii)have obtained degree from
(a) a recognized University in Sri Lanka
or
(b) a foreign University recognized by the University
Grants Commission of Sri Lanka (UGC). Documentary
proof to this effect issued by the University Grants
Commission should be submitted by the Candidate at
the time of viva-voce.
(iii)have attained the age of 22 years and have not attained the
age of 30 years on the closing date of application. In case of
a candidate who is already in the Public Service, such a
candiate must not have attained the age of 40 years on the
closing date of application and should possess satisfactory
record of service.
Notes :(i) For the purpose of clause 6(iii), a candidate from the
Public Service is classified as an officer who have been
confirmed in the Public Service (as defined in Chapter I
of the Establishment Code), Central Government Service
or the Provincial Public Service, on the closing date of
application.
(ii) A candidate from the Public Service will not be eligible
to sit for this examination unless he/she has had
satisfactory record of service during the 05 years
immediately preceding the closing date of application or
if the period of service is less than 05 years during the
total period of service with the Government.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2007
1142
(iii) A member of the Public Service will be considered to
have a satisfactory record of service only if he/she has
earned, on the due date, all increments within the 05
years immediately preceding the closing date of
application or if the period of service is less than 05
years, during the total period of his/her service in the
respective Institution, and has not been subject to any
punishment whatsoever (except a warning) in respect of
any offence committed during the period as mentioned
above.
(iv) Applicants from the Public Service should forward their
applications through their respective Heads of
Department/Institution.
7. Examination Fee.—The examination fee will be Rs. 300.
The fee should be paid before the closing date of application at a
District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat under the Revenue Head
4000-20-03-20-13. The receipt issued for the payment should be
attached to the application. Applicants are advised to retain a
photocopy of the receipt.
Note.—A candidate who withdraws or is absent himself/herself
from the examination for any reason whatsoever or having sat for the
examination is found to be ineligible, shall not be entitled for refund
of the whole or portion of the examination fee.
8. Method of Application :
(i) The application should be in conformity with the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate on A4 size paper (8 1/2" X 12") using both sides
of the paper. Items 01 - 07 should appear in the first page of
the application.
(ii)The application should be filled in the language in which the
candidate intends to sit for the examination.
(iii)The completed application for the examination must be
forwarded by registered post, addressed to the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations (Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch), Pelawatte, Battaramulla, so as to reach him on or
before 09th November 2007.The phrase “Open Competitive
Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Foreign Service - 2007” and English letter “S” should be
clearly written in the cage (2 cm X 2 cm) on the top left hand
corner of the envelope. No application received after the
closing date will be accepted.
(iv) Any application which is not complete in every respect is
liable to be rejected. No complaint that the application has
been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(v) Applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
published in the newspapers as soon as the Admission Cards
are issued. Applicants are advised to be on the lock out for
such notice.
A candidate who does not receive his/her Admission Card at least
7 days before the commencement of the examination should
immediately notify the Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations (Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch), Pelawatte, Battaramulla. (Telegraphic address : “Exams”,
Battaramulla) with the following information :
(i) Name of examination ;
(ii)Full name of candidate ;
(iii)Address in full ;
(iv) Date of mailing the application, registration number and the
post office.
9.  Admission to the Examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to eligible applicants. A candidate, who
fails to produce the Admission Card to the supervisor of the
examination centre, will not be permitted to sit for the
Examination.
(ii) A candidate must sit for the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him/her and should produce the admission
card relevant to the hall to the supervisor of the hall, on the
firsy day of examination. A set of rules to be oberserved by
all candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note.—The issue of admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications to sit for
the examination.
10. Identification of Candidates.—Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject offered. For this purpose either of the
following documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card
or
(ii) A valid Passport
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.—If an applicant is
found to be ineligible his/her application is liable to be cancelled, at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of
the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false within
his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material
fact, he/she will be liable to be dismissed from the Public Service.
12. Language Medium of Examination :
(i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English ;
(ii) A candidate can sit for the examination in one of the three
languages mentioned above. However, the candidate must
sit for all the question papers in one language of his/her
choice.

<!-- page 5 -->

1143 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2007
13. Method of Testing :
Part I Written Examination : This will consist of the following six
(06) question papers.
Subjects Duration Marks
(i) General Paper 3 hours 100
(ii) World Affairs I 3 hours 100
(iii) World Affairs II 3 hours 100
(iv)Essay 3 hours 100
(v) Precis 1 hour 100
(vi) Multiple Choice 1 hour and 40 Mts. 100
Question Paper
Syllabus for Written Examination
(i)General Paper .—This paper is desgined to test the applicant’s
knowledge of the political, social, cultural and economic
environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current national and
international interest as well as scientific and technological
developments.
(ii)World Affairs I - This paper will consist of questions on
current global political developments, the United Nations
and other International Organizations, conflict situations
and development of various national and international
movements, in order to ascertain the applicant’s ability to
analyze global trends for peace, security and development
and their impact on Sri Lanka.
(iii)World Affairs II - This paper will consist of questions on
recent trends in trade and economic developmnet including
the role palyed by International Organizations, the impact
of regionla economic groupings, issues such as environment
and sustainable development, and their relevance to Sri
Lanka.
(iv)Essay - Applicants are required to write an essay on one or
more specified subjects. These subjects will not be related
to any subject field of study but will be designed to test the
applicant’s general knowledge and his/her general ability
both in powers of thinking and expression. The essay will
be judged by the degree of thoughtfulness and originality in
dealing with the subject as well as language, style and
presentation. The essay must clearly and legibly be written.
Note.— The attention of candidates is drawn to the
importance of relevance and legibility. Careful
examination of the subject to the degree of analytical
thinking, the quality of writing and ability to express
concisely and clearly will earn marks.
(v) Precis - This paper which will consist of  2 parts, is designed
to test the candidate’s ability to comprehend the meaning of
given passages and to express them effectively and concisely.
(vi)Multiple Choice Question Paper - This paper, which will be
in the following two parts, carrying 50 marks each, would
contain objective type questions.
(a) Intelligence Test - This section is to assess the power of
logical reasoning and analytical ability of the applicant.
(Duration 50 minutes)
(b) General Knowledge and Current Affairs — This section is
to test the applicant’s knowledge of current developments
in the political, economic and socio-cultural fields, both local
and international. (Duration 50 minutes)
14. Part II - Viva - Voce - Applicants will be interviewed on
matters of general interest by a board appointed by the Public Service
Commission. The objective of the interview is to assess the suitability
of the applicant to the service for which he/she has applied for and
the board, in framing its assessment, will attach particular importance
to intelligence and mental alertness, personality and potential qualities
of leadership. The applicant’s proficiency in other languages, higher
educational qualifications and computer skills etc. will also be assessed
at the interview. (Please see 02 (ii).
15. Method of Selection for Appointment - The selection for
appointment will be made on the total aggregate marks obtained at
the written examination and the viva-voce. The final selection for
appointment will be made by the Public Service Commission.
16. Any matter not provided for in this Gazette Notification will
be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission. Public
Service Commission reserves the right to fill these vacancies, wholly
or partly or not to fill any vacancy.
Note.—Applicants who have already forwarded their applications
for the Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment to Grade
III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service, in response to the notification in
the Government Gazette No. 1501 of 08.06.2007 are not required to
apply again.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
P
ALITHA  T. B. KOHONA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01.
05th October 2007
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
O
PEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  III OF
THE  SRI LANKA  FOREIGN  SERVICE  - 2007
Medium of examination
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
Index No. :————
(for Office use only)
01. (i) (a) Last Name with initials (in English block capitals) :—
———.
(b) Last Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :————.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .10.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2007
1144
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(ii) (a)Names denoted by initials (In English block
capitals) :—————.
(b) Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :———
——.
02. Address :
(i) Private (In English block capitals) :—————.
(Admission cards will be posted to this address)
(ii)Official :—————.
(iii) Telephone Nos. : (Official) :—————.(Residence) :—
————.
03. National Identity Card No.:
04.  Sex : M/F
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Male - 0, Female - 1)
05. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :————.    Month :————. Day :————.
(ii)Age on the closing date of application :
Years :————.  Month :————.  Days :————.
06. Nationality :-
07. Whether married or Single : M/S
08. State the year/years in which you have sat for any examination
for appointment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
09. Are you a graduate holding a post in the Public Service, if so,
state the name of the post :—
10. Details of the University Degree : (Please read para 6 (ii) of the
notification carefully to see whether you are qualified in this
respect.)
(i) Name of the University :—
(ii) Degree :—
(iii)Effective Date :—
(iv) General/Special :—
(v) Subjects :—
(vi) Class :—
11. If you have any other academic/professional qulifications (Post
graduate degree/diploma, certificates in foreign languages etc.)
Please give details below :
12. I declare that the information given in this form is true to the
best of my knowledge and belief, and that I have affixed the
receipt No.................... dated ................being payment of the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel
my application prior to, during or after the examination, if it is
found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this
examination.
Please paste the payment receipt here.
—————.
Signature of the Applicant
13. 
C ERTIFICATE  OF  THE  HEAD  OF  DEPARTMENT /INSTITUTION
(Only for Candidates already in the Public Service and the
Provincial Public Service)
I have ascertained that during 5 years/.......... years preceding.......
2007, Mr./Mrs./Miss............... has (a) earned all his/her increments,
(b) not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment
(excluding warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct.
This Officer, if selected, could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
————.
Signature of Head of Department and
Designation.
Date :————.
10-463