

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
529
529
wxl 1"856 - 2014 ud¾;= 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'03'28
No. 1,856 – FRIDAY , MARCH 28, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 532
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 539
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th April, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th April,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Parts II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,855 of 21.03.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
530
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
531
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
532
Posts – Vacant
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Calling for applications for recruitment of officers to the
vacancies in the Posts of Assistant Director (Legal) of the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or
Corruption - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited by order of the Public Service
Commission for selection of suitable persons for 10 vacancies existing
in the Posts of Assistant Director (Legal) of the Commission to
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption. All applications
prepared in accordance with the specimen form attached at the end
of this notice  should reach the Director General, Commission to
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, No. 36,
Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 07 under Registered Post on or
before the below mentioned date. The words "Post of Assistant
Director (Legal)" should be marked clearly on the top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application.
(a) The closing date of applications will be 01.05.2014.
Note :- No complaints to the effect that an application or any
order correspondence connected there to has been lost or
delayed in the post will be entertained. Any damage caused
due to delay in submitting the applications until the
closing date should be borne by the applicants themselves.
01. Method of Recruitment .– Recruitment will be made on the
order of merit following a structured interview in accordance with
existing number of vacancies.
The number of appointments and the date on which the
appointments take effect will be decided by the Public Service
Commission.
02. Terms of Engagement :
(i) This Post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans
Pension Scheme.
(ii) Officers appointed to this post will be subject to a
period of probation for three (3) years and should pass
the First Efficiency Bar Examination within such
period of 03 years. If a person already holding a
permanent post in the Public Service is selected and
appointed he/she should be subject to a period of
serveillance for one year.
(iii) As per Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
and the Circulars incidental thereto the level of
proficiency in the order official language should be
acquired within a period of five years. Officers who
joined the service in a medium of language other than
an official language should gain proficiency in one
official language within a period of three years and the
profeciency in the other official language should be
acquired within a period of six years.
(iv) The appointment shall be subject to the Procedural
Rules of the Public Service Commission, the
Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the
Government and other Departmental Orders.
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly Salary Scale applicable to this post
is Rs. 28,095 - 5 x 645 - 5 x 750 - Rs. 35,270. (Salary Code SL 5-
2006)
04. Qualifications required :
(i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :
Should be an Attorney-at-law of the Supreme Court/
should have obtained a Degree in Law from a University
recongnized by the University Grants Commission.
(ii) Experience :
Should have gained and active professional experience of
not less than three years (03) after taking oaths as an
Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court.
05. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 22 years and not more
than 45 years of age as at 01.05.2014 (Maximum age limit will not
be applicable to those officers who are already employed in the
public service/provincial public service)
06. Physical Attributes.– Every applicant shall
(i) Serve in any part of Sri Lanka
(ii) be physically and mentally fit to perform duties in the
Post.
07. Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka
(ii) Applicants should be of excellent moral character.
(iii) Applicants should have in every respect completed all
the qualifications that are required to be fulfilled for the
recruitment to this post as at the closing date of
applications given in the Notice/ Gazette Notification
calling for such applications.
08. Interview :
8.1 Structured Interview.– Marks will be granted by a Board
of Interview appointed by the Public Service
Commission.
8.2 The detailed Marking Scheme for the structural
interview is given below :

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
533
Serial Subject Marks Maximum
No. Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :1 0
LLB Degree from a recognized University
- First Class Pass 10
- Second Class Upper 08
- Second Class Lower 06
First Class pass in the Law College in Final Year 08
Second Class pass in the Law College in Final Year 06
(Marks will be allocated only for the highest eligibility - only for Degree or Law College qualification).
02. Additional Professional Qualifications :1 0
A Post - graduate Diploma of not less than 01 year in the relevant field or Post - Graduate
Diploma in Law. Obtained from a recognized Institution (5 marks for each Diploma)
A Diploma Course of not less than six months pertaining to the relevant field obtained from a
recognized Institution. (3 marks for each Diploma)
A Certificate Course of not less than three months pertaining to the relevant field obtained
from a recognized Institution. (2 marks for each Course)
03. Experience in the field of Law : 40
Experience as an Attorney - at -Law other than the prescribed period of three year service
required for obtaining basic qualifications. (5 marks for each year - maximum 10)
(Additional Experience should be supported by a certificate obtained from an Attorney - at -Law
who counts not less than 20 years of experience or from a President's Counsel or judicial Officer.)
Experience in handling Court Cases 10
(5 marks for each year - maximum 10)
Experience as a Legal Officer in Gove rnment Institutions other than Attorney-General's Department 10
(5 marks for each year - maximum 10)
(Experience should be testified by the Head of Department or a Legal Officer).
Experience in filing action and appearing in the cases on behalf of Attorney-General 10
(5 marks for each year - maximum 10)
Experience should be testified by the Attorney - General or a Supervising Officer
04. Computer Literacy : 10
A degree from a University recognized by the University Grants 10
Commission with information Technology as a main subject.
Diploma Course in Information Technology from an Institution recognized by the Government 07
for a duration not less than 6 months
Certificate Course in Information Technology from an Institution recognized by the Government 05
for a duration not less than 3 months
05. Proficiency in English Language : 10
Degree, Post - Graduate Degree, LLB or Post - Graduate 10
LLB in English Medium.
(Should have answered all relevant examination question papers in English Medium).
Diploma Course in English Language from a University recognized 07
by the University Grants Commission or an Institution recognized by the Government.
A Certificate Course in English Language from a University 05
recognized by the University Grants Commission or an Institution recognized by the Government.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
534
06. Presentation of questions on case studies at the structured interview  to gauge the knowledge 15
of Acts, Ordinances and the Cases determined.
(Related questions should be prepared by the Board of Interview).
07. Performance at the interview 05
Total 100
Serial Subject Marks Maximum
No. Marks
09. (i) Applications should be prepared in 'A4' papers of the
size of 22-29 cm in such a manner that items 1 to 9
apper on the first page and they should be completed
legibly by candidate's own handwriting. Applications
that do not comply with the specimen and those which
are incomplete will be rejected without notice. Retaining
with the candidate a copy of the application concerned
may be advisable. Candidates should see that the
applications are consitent with the specimen application
form appended to the Gazette notice and the applications
that are inconsistent may liable to be rejected.
(ii) Identity of the candidate. – Originals of the following
documents shall be produced on notice.
(i) Educational Certificates ;
(ii) Birth Certificate ;
(iii) National Identity Card ;
(iv) Certificates of Experience (supported by
certificates issued by a judicial Officer or an
Attorney- at-Law with professional experience
not less than 20 years) ;
(v) Two testimonials (one of which should be from
the Grama Niladhari countersigned by the
Divisional Secretary).
N. B.–
(a) No documents or copies should be attached to the
application.
(b) Applications of the candidates failing to submit documents
upon request will not be considered.
Applications from officers in the Public Service must be
forwarded through the Heads of their Departments/Institutions.
The Signature of the  candidate in the application should be attested
by a Principal of a Government School/Jusctice of Peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces or an officer holding a
permanent post in the Public Service drawing a monthly consolidated
salary of Rs. 22,935.
10. Procedural rules of the Public Service Commission,
Government Circulars issued from time to time, the conditions of
Service Minute and the amendments made thereto shall be applicable
to this post.
11. The Public Service Commission reserves the right of making
the final decision on whether to fill the vacancies or only a part
thereof.
By order of the Public Service Commission.
L
UCKSHMI JAYAWICKRAMA,
Director General,
Commission to Investigate Allegations
of Bribery or Corruption.
Commission to Investigate Allegations of
Bribery or Corruption,
No. 36, Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
05th March, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (LEGAL) OF THE
COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OR BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION
01. (i) Name with initials : Mr/Mrs/Miss :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full : Mr/Mrs/Miss :–––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Residential Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial Address :–––––––––––.
(in employed in Public Service)
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 01.05.2014 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. N. I. C. No. :–––––––––––.
05. Ethnicity :–––––––––––.
06. Sex :–––––––––––.
07. (i) Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(ii) Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(iii) Period of professional experience as at 01.05.2014 :
Years:–––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
535
08. Have you ever been dismissed from the public Service or vacated
from post :–––––––––––.
09. (i) Have you ever been convicted from a Court of Law :
–––––––––––.
(ii) If yes, give details :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before the selection of discontinuance after the
selection.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
If the applicant is in the Public Service :
CERTIFICA TE TO THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I verify that Mr./Mrs./Miss.................... is in employee of this
Department/Board/Coorporation. In the event of his/her selection
for appointment he/she can/cannot be released from this
Department/Corporation. (Delete inapplicable words).
–––––––––––,
Signatuere of the Head of Department.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Department :–––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
03-691
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Recruitment to the Post of Superintendent of Translations
in the Ministry of Justice
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka with the
undermentioned quailfications for recrutiment to the post of
Superintendent of Translations in the Ministry of Justice.
02. Educational Qualifications.– Should possess a Degree from
a University recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
and
Should possess a credit pass in Sinhala/Tamil/English Language
at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination ; or
Should possess an ordinary pass for Sinhala/Tamil/English
Language at the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination.
Professional Quailfications.– Should be an officer in the Special
Class of the Trnaslators' Service ; or
Should be an officer in Class I of the Translators' Service with
08 years working experience in that post.
03. Other Qualifications :
1. Every applicant should bear an excellent moral character.
2. Physical fitness .– Every applicant should be in good
mental and physical order to serve in any part of this
island and to discharge the duties and functions in the
post.
Applicants should have fulfilled in every respect the
qualifications required for the recruitment to the post at the closing
date of application.
04. Salary Scale.– MN-7-2006A. Rs. 20,030 -11x 365 - 18x 500
- Rs. 33,045 per month.
05. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made in order
of merit at a structural interview conducted by an interview board
appointed by the Public Serice Commission.
06. Terms of engagement and Conditions of Service :
(a) This post is permanent. It is pensionable. The selected
candidate will be required to make contributions to the
Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(b) The selected candidate is required to comply with the
provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Repubilc of Sri Lanka and any ruels and regulations
already made or that may hereafter be made to give effect
to the language policy of the Government. He/She will
also be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code, Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders and any other orders already issued
or which may be issued by the Government from time to
time. Selected candidate should adhere to the regulations
of the Public Service Commission published in the
Government Gazette dated 20.02.2009.
(c) The closing date of the acceptance of applications is
28.04.2014. The selected candidate should be in good
mental and physical order to serve in any part of the
island and to discharge the duties and functions of the
post. He/She should undergo a Government Medical
Examination and must be mentally and physically sound.
07. The applications should be in the specimen form appended
to this notice and should be prepared on an A4 size paper using
both sides. The duly completed application should be sent through
the Heads of the Departments/Institutions by registered post to
reach the address mentioned at the end of this notice on or before
28.04.2014. The words "Post of Superintendent of Translations in
the Ministry of Justic" should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application form.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
536
08. The marking scheme at the structural interview :
Spheres in respect of which marks are awarded Marks that Maximum
Could be Marks
given
01. Additional Educational Qualifications : 20 marks
* A Degree in the field of law obtained from a recognized university 20 marks
* A Post Graduate Diploma in the Field of Law obtained from a recognized university 15 marks
* A Diploma in the Field of Law obtained from a recognized university 05 marks
* A Certificate Course in the Field of Law done in a recognized univeristy/institution) 03 marks
(Maxmum marks which could be awarded is 20)
02. Language Proficiency 25 marks
* A Degree with Sinhala/Tamil/English Language as a main subject obtained from a 25 marks
recognized university approved by the Univerrsity Grants Commission/SLLC
(The Degree considered as the basic quailfication will not be cosndiered under this item)
* Diploma in Sinhala/Tamil/English Langauge of a duration of not less than one year 15 marks
obtained from a recognized university
* Certificate Course of not less than 6 months duration in Sinhala/Tamil/English 10 marks
Language followed at a recognized university
03. Additional Qualifications : 30 marks
(i) Language Translator Service :
* Experience - Language Translators' Service - Special Class 20 marks
(05 marks are awarded per year in Special Class)
* Experience - Language Translators' Service - Class I
(02 marks are awarded per year in Class I and maximum mark that could be
awarded is 20)
Note.– Additional Basic qualifications of 8 years working experience in the
Translators' Service - Class I mentioned under the professional Qualifications
above should not be recknoed in awarding of marks under this item.
(ii) Language Translator Service - in the Judicial Field 10 marks
* Experience as a Langauge Translator in the Judicial field
(02 marks are awarded per year and maximum marks which could be awarded is 10)
04. Additional Qualifications - Computer Literacy 20 marks
* A Diploma in IT of not less than 06 months duration obtained from a Government
recognized institute
(10 marks are awarded per certificate course)
* Certificate Courst in IT of not less than 03 months duration followed in a
Government recognized institute
(05 marks are awarded per certificate course)
05. Perfromance at the interview 05 marks
09. Please note that incomplete applications, applications submitted without basic qualifications and received after the closin g
date will be rejected without notice. Complaints regarding applications or related documents lost in the mail will not be consi dered.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
537
10. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after selection.
The final decision on any matter not mentioned herein shall be
with the Secretary to the Public Service Commission.
This notice is published by the order of the Public Service
Commission.
K
AMALINI DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF JUSTICE
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF SUPERINTENDENT OF TRANSLATIONS
No. :––––––––––––.
(For office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
Name with initials (In English Block Capital) :––––––.
(b) Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
Full name (In English Block Capital) :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address (In English Block Capital) :–––––––––––.
04. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Sex :–––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
08. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. Nationality :–––––––––––.
10. Whether married or single :–––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––, Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––, Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
Particulars in respect of the Degree :
Degree :–––––––––––.
Subjects :–––––––––––.
University :–––––––––––.
Date the Degree was conferred :–––––––––––.
Medium :–––––––––––.
12. Professional Qualifications :
The date on which the applicant was appointed to the Class I/
Special Class of the Translators' Service :–––––––––––.
Experience : Number of Years :–––––––––––.
Experience as a Translator with sepcial reference to the judicial
field : Number of Years :–––––––––––.
13. Other Educational Qualifications :
(i) ...........................
(ii) ...........................
(iii) ...........................
14. Proficiency in Languages (Mark 
3 in the relevant Column) :
Very Good Good Ordinary Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
Applicant's Declaration
I, .......................... declare that the particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and correct. I certify that I have not been
subject to any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful
alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated the post perviously.
I am also aware that, If any particulars contained herein are found
to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if detected
before selection and to dismissal without compensation, if detected
after appointment.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date 
:––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
538
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is serving in the Ministry/Department/Institution as an Offic er in
Class I/Special Class of the Translators' Service and that he/she can be/cannot be released, if selected for this Post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
03–937
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th Apr il, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th March, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Additional Marriage (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Registrar of Havelock Town, Kirulapone, General, District Secretariat,
Narahenpita, Thimbirigasyaya, Borella Colombo.
and Wellawatta area (Tamil Medium)
03–1025

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
539
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th Apr il, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
12th March, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Thirappane Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Hurulu Palatha Division of General, District Secretariat,
Nachchaduwa Area Anuradhapura.
03–916
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
THE  OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  STENOGRAPHER
(GRADE  III)  IN  THE  OFFICE  OF  THE
COMMISSIONER  FOR  WORKMEN'S
COMPENSATION - 2014
APPLICATIONS are called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
for filling the vacancies of 03 positions of Sinhala Medium
Stenographer Class III in the Office of the Commissioner for
Workmen's Compensation.
02. The qualified applicants, selected according to the results of
written and professional examination conducted by the National
Institute of Labour Studies which is coming under purview of
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations, will be recruited according
to competency order.
03. The Salary Scale. – MN-1-2006(A) Rs. 13,120 -10x145 -
11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040 according to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV).
Efficiency Bar Examination before 4th salary step.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
540
04. Terms of Service :
4.1 This position is permanent, pensionable and should
contribute to Widowers'/Orphans' Pension Fund. This
Post is subjected to three years (03) of probation period.
4.2 The language proficiency of other official language/
languages, other than the language in which engaged into
the service, shall be fulfilled during 5 years after engaging
in to service in term of Public Administration Circular
No. 7/2007 and dated on 28.05.2007.
4.3 You should work for the Office of the Commissioner for
Workmen's Compensation located at No. 128, Lories
Road, Colombo 04 and the island wide Mobile
Workmen's Compensation Courts.
05. Qualifications :
5.1 The applicants should be citizen of Sri Lanka.
5.2 The age as at closing date of applications should be
reached to 18 years and not exceed to 30.
5.3 Should have good character.
5.4 Educational Qualification :
(i) Passing of G. C. E. (O/L) with six (06) subjects at
one sitting with two (02) credits in any other subjects
and first language (Sinhala/English/Tamil) and
Mathematics ;
and
(ii) Passing of G. C. E. (A/L) at least one subject.
5.5 Professional quailfications.– Obtaining the Certificate
on Stenographer and Typewriting (6 months) conducted
in an institution approved by Tertiary V ocational
Education Commission or possession of Credit (C) pass
for Stenograph and Typewriting subject at G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination.
Note .– Following shows the Institutions for
Stenography and Computer Typewriting approved
by Tertiary V ocational Education Commission.
* Industrial Colleges and Technical Colleges belong to
Department of Technical and Education Training.
* The training centers belong to NAITA.
* The training centers belong to National Council of
Youth Services.
* The training centers belong to Sri Lanka V ocational
Training Authority.
06. Procedure of Examination .– The Open Competitive
Examination for the recruitment consists of written examination and
professional test. At the first, the written examination will be
conducted and the professional test will be called the applicants who
obtained the marks above 40% of that question paper :
Written Examination :
Question paper Marks Time
General Knoweldge and Essay 100 01 hour
Professional test :
Stenography and Computer Typewriting 100 (Sinhala)
(i) General Knowledge and Essay :
Test the knowledge on contemporary events in the field
local and international, writing of essay under selected
topic out of the given topics of contemporarily
importance. ((Presentation of specific ideas, language
skills, accuracy of grammar and the manner of writing).
(ii) Stenography and Computer Typesetting :
Stenography of a paragraph reading continuously during
five (5) minutes at the speed of 70 words per minute and
writing said stenography notes with normal language at
the speed of 07 words per minute. Typewriting 20 words
per minute. (A praragraph of 20 minutes).
07. Recruitment Procedure. – The applicants should obtain at
least 40% of marks in each subject to qualify an appointment due to
this is a competitive examination. The available vacancies are filled
according to the order of obtained total marks as per filling number of
existing vacancies reserved for competitive examination. (Fulfillment
of all the qualifications mentioned on this notice is compulsory).
08. Examination fees.– The examination fees is Rs. 350. The
receipt, issued by crediting said examination fees to A/C No.
0071451995 of BOC at Pelawatta Branch which held by the name of
National Institute of Labour Studies, should be stick to application
form. The examination fee is non-refundable. Possesses a photocopy
of receipt would be useful.
09. Preparation of application form :
9.1 Use the both sides of A4 size paper according to specimen
form in this notice.
(a) pages should be prepared as the paragraphs No. 01
to 03 in the first page and rest of parts in other
pages and the relevant information should be
furnished with self hand written.
(b) All the applications, in which non comply with
relevant specimen format, non-payment of
examination fees as at due date of payment and
non-filled duly and incomplete, will be rejected
without prior notice. The applicants should incur
the non-duly filling of application forms. Possession
of a photocopy of application form is useful and

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
541
the applicants should find out whether the filled
application form is complied with the specimen
application form of notice. Otherwise, the
application may be rejected.
9.2 This examination will be conducted on May, 2014 at
Colombo.
9.3 Director General of NILS allows sitting for competitive
examination under the prior conclusion that all the
applicants submitted the application forms which have
completed the relevant qualifications on the date or before
and paid relevant examination fees and the application
prepared according to said notice mentioning qualified
according to notice. Issuing of an admission for sitting
examination is not considered as a pre-requisite
qualification for this position. The candidature will be
invalidated if any particular contained herein is found to
be inaccurate and false according to the terms of Gazette
notification.
9.4 The application :
Duly filled applications should be sent to Director
General, National Institute of Labour Studies, No. 267,
Pannipitiya Road, Pelawatta, Battaramulla by registered
post on or before 21.04.2014. The Open Competitive
Examination for the recruitment to the post of
stenographer in the Office of the Commissioner for
Workmen's Compensation - 2014 should be mentioned
on the left side upper end of the envelope containing the
application. No responsibility will be undertaken for
late applications and applications lost in the post.
9.5 The signature of applicant should be certified by a
principal of government school, Peace of Justice, a
Commissioner of Oath, a Public Notary, authority officer
of all three army forces, an officers in the Police Service
who hold a Gazette position or an officer who hold a
position in the government or Provincial Government
Service and who is earning a salary exceeding to
Rs. 240, 360 per annum.
Penalty for providing of false information. – The accurate
information should be provided when the application form is filled.
The candidature will be inavalidated before or meanwhile or after the
examination or whenever if any applicant is found disqualified in
term of rules and regulation of this examination. He/She is liable to
dismiss from the public service that if any particular contained herein
is found to be inaccurate and false after the appointment.
10. Sitting for examination.– Director General of National Institute
of Labour Studies will issue the admission as per the applicant
receives it one week earlier to examination date. Applicants are not
allowed sit for the examination without such admission form. All the
applicants sitting for examination should produce the admission
form which certified their signature to invigilator.
National Institute of Labour Studies will pubilsh a press release
immediately admission forms are issued to appilcants. National
Institute of Labour Studies should be informed if you didn't receive
the admission form during 02 or 03 days after releasing the press
ntoice. It is important to refer your inquiry along with the certified
photocopies of receipt paid for application and registered receipt
National Institute of Labour Studies.
11. The invigilator should be produced at least one of the following
documents for verification of applicant's identity :–
(1) National Identity Card issued by Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(2) The valid passport.
12. All the candidates are subjected to rules and regulations
imposed by Director General of National Institute of Labour Studies
in respect of holding the examination. He/She is ilable to any penalty
imposed by Director General of National Institute of Labour Studies
if the rules and regulations are violated.
13. The final decision on holding of this examination, granting of
appointments and any other matter is vested on Secretary to
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations.
Note.– If any contradiction is found in the notices pubilshed by
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium of this Gazette
notification, the accurate notice is the Sinhalese medium
notification.
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations.
Labour Secretariat,
2nd Floor,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
Specimen Form of Application
THE  OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINA TION  FOR  THE
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  STENOGRAPHER
(GRADE  III)  IN  THE  OFFICE  OF  THE COMMISSIONER
FOR  WORKMEN'S  COMPENSATION - 2014
01. 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(With English Captial Letters) (Ex. : PERERA A. B. C.)
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(With English Capital Letters)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
1.5 Sex : Male - 1
Female - 0
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(With English Capital Letters)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
542
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
2.3 The address to be sent examination admission form :
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––––––.
(ii) With English Capital Letters :––––––––––––.
2.4 Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Marital Status :
Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 The age as at the closing date of calling application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or
registration ? :––––––––––––.
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year :––––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Pass Subject Pass
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year :––––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Pass
05. Professional Qualifications :
Name of Course Duration Institution
06. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence ?
Yes N o
If you ever have been convicted in a Court of Law for any
offence, why ? :––––––––––––.
07. Particulars on receipt paid the examination fees :
(i) The name of BOC branch paid the examination fees :
––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :
No. :––––––––––––. Date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––––.
Stick here receipt
08. Certification of Applicant :
(a) I, declare the information furnished by me in the
application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge and I agree herein to liable any disadvantage
may be incurred due to non furnishing and/or false
information. Further, I declare hereby that all the
information is furnished accurately.
(b) I agree to act according to rules and regulations imposed
by Director General of National Institute of Labour Studies
in respect of holding examination and acknowledge the
decisions made to invalidate my candidature before or
after the examination if I am found to be disqualified in
term of these conditions.
(c) I am fully aware that if the declaration made by me was
proved to be untrue or incorrect prior to my selection to
this post, I would be disqualified and if such situation is
proved after my appointment to the post, I am liable to
be sacked from the service without payment of any
compensation.
(d) I do not alter any information here mentioned later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
09. Certifying of applicant's signature :
I certify that the applicant who submit, this application, Mr./
Mrs./Miss ............................, is known to me personally and He/
She placed his/her signature in front of me on ........................
––––––––––––––,
The signature and official seal of
Certifying Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
03–688

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
543
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
RECRUITMENT (OPEN) TO VACANCIES IN THE POST
OF SERVICE CATEGORY OF MANAGMENT ASSISTANT
(NON TECHNOLOGY) SEGMENT 2 OF THE
DEPARTMEMNT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
TRAINING
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified persons, to fill existing
vacancies in the following posts of the Department of Technical
Education and Training.
Post Number of Vacancies
1. Premises overseer 17
2. Workshop Assistant 27
01. Recruitment Procedure.- Appointment will be made to Class
III of relevant post on merit order of the results of structural
interview and number of vacancies available.
Structural Interview :
Main headings, to be given marks Maximum marks
Additional Educational Quailfication 20
Additional V ocational Qualification 35
Additional Experience 30
Profficiency in Language 10
Skills at the interview 05
Total 100
02. Educational Qualifications :
1. Have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects
with credit pass to Sinhala/Tamil/English langauge,
Mathematics and other two subjects in one sitting ;
and
2. Have passed at least one (01) subject in G. C. E. (A/L)
(except general common test).
03. V ocational Qualifications and nature of duties, relevant to
each post :
(a) Premises Overseer  :
(i) Vocational Qualifications :
1. Have obtained National Certificate in Industrial
Technicians (Civil Engineering) ;
or
2. Have obtained National Certificate in Building
Construction Technology.
3. Have followed a National V ocational quailfication
(NVQ) full time level 4 course in construction field
and have obtained a certificate from an Institution,
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.
(ii) Nature of duties :
(i) Monitoring activities of trained and non trained
preliminary cadre of the College.
(ii) Organizing and monitoring the maintanance
activities of buildings and garden of college premises.
(iii) Participation in activities of production and services
unit.
(iv) Other duties assign relevant to the post by the Head
of the Institution.
(b) Workshop Assistant :
(i) Vocational Qualifications.- Have followed a National
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) full time level 4 course
in Machanical/Civil field and have obtained a certificate
from an Institution, recognized by the Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission.
(ii) Nature of duties :
(i) Examine inventories of workshops of Colleges of
Technology/Technical Colleges and report.
(ii) Report defficiencies and excessess in workshops.
(iii) Report repairs and services, to be carried out in
workshops.
(iv) Other duties assign, relevant to the post, by the
Head of the Institution.
04. Service experience.- Have obtained one (01) year experience
in relevant post/field in a government or government registered
Institute.
05. Age limit. - Not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years of age as at the closing date of applications.
06. Salary.- In terms of Public Administration Circular No.
6/2006(iv) salary sacle Rs. 13,120 -10x145 -11x170 - 10x240 -
10x320 - Rs. 22,040 of Salary Code No. MN-1-2006(A) is
appilcable for this post.
07. All candidates, who apply for the above referred posts,
should be a citizen of Sri Lanka with a moral character and have
sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to discharge the duties of the post. All qualifications
need to recruit to each post should have been fulfilled in every
manner, by the closing date of applications.
08. Method of Application :
(i) Applications should be sent under registered cover to
reach the "Director General, Department of Technical

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
544
Education and Training, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10",
on or before 28th April, 2014. Applications, received
after that date will be rejected.
(ii) A specimen application, is indicated at the end of this
notification, appilcants should prepare their application,
in their own handwriting, in A4 size paper with No. 01 to
07 appearing in 1st page, No. 08 to 11 appearing in 2nd
page and the rest in next pages.
(iii) The envelope enclsoing the application should clearly be
marked "Application for the post of ............." on the top
left hand corner. (relevant post should be mentioned).
(iv) Signature of candidate should be attested by a Principal
of a Government School/A Justice of a Peace/
Commissioner of Oaths/Attorny-at-Law/Notary Public,
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force or an officer
holding a permanent post in the Government with
monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 22,935.
(v) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Pubilc
Service should submit applications through their Head of
the Department.
(vi) Applications, without confirmity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applications lost or delayed will not be accepted.
Applicants are adviced to send their applications in time
to avoid the possibility of postal delay. Receipt of
application will not be acknowledged. Incomplete
applications and applications which not fulfilled
prescribed qualifications will be rejected.
09. Furnishigng false Information. - Your candidature will be
repealed, if any information mentioned in the application, being
detected as incorrect or false, before the recruitment. If such
information being detected after the recruitment, action will be
taken to dismiss from the service, subject to the procedure relevant
thereto.
10. Implementation of official languages policy.- Proficiency in
other official language of relevant level, should be obtained, within
05 years from the date of appointment, in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and Circulars, incidental
thereto.
11. Conditions of employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers and
Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) Candidates should liable to serve in any College of
Technology/Technical College, comes under the purview
of this Department, as would be stipulated.
(iii) Selected candidates should subject to the provisions of
scheme of recruitment relevant ot the post, provisions
in Establishments Code, Financial Regulations and to
the rules and regulations issued by the Government or
Line Ministry or Director General of the Department of
Technical Education and Training.
(iv) General conditions and provisions, mentioned in the
Procedural Rules pubilshed in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 by the Public Service
Commission are applicable.
12. Director General of the Department of Technical Education
and Training reserves the right to fill all or a part of the vacancies.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the
Tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
S. B
ALASUBRAMANIAM,
Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10,
28th March, 2014.
A
PPLICATION FORM
For office use
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT  (OPEN) TO THE POST OF
............................. OF SERVICE CATEGORY OF MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT
(NON TECHNOLOGY) SEGMENT - 2 OF DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING - 2013
01. Name of the Condidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (In block capital
letters) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name (In block captial letters) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or Telephone Number, should
be informed immediately) :
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
04. Age as at clsoing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––––.  Months ::–––––––––––,  Days :
05. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
06. Sex : Male/Female :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
545
07. Whether married/unmarried/Widow :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject G rade
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject G rade
09. V ocational Qualifications :
Examination/ Y ear Subjects Grade Name of the Institute/
Diploma University
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institutions, Post Period of Whether Government/
worked service Semi Government/Private
11. Highest Examination passed in following subject :
Sinhala :–––––––––––.
Tamil :–––––––––––.
English :–––––––––––.
12. (i) If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or
registration (If registration, state details) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Race (indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
Sinhalese - 1 Sri Lankan Tamil - 2
Sri Lankan Muslim - 3 Indian Origin - 4
Others - 5
13. Whether you have been dismissed from Government post, that
you had been holding ? :–––––––––––.
14. If you are already in Public Service, are there any Departmental
disciplinary inquiries against you ? :–––––––––––.
15. Whether you have been convicted in a court ? If so, state
details :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnshed by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars
contained there is are found to be false and incorrect before the
selection I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
16. Attestation of the Signature of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. is
personaly known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence
on ..........................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the certifying officer :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(This part is applicable only for candidates who engage in
Government Employment) :
Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... who
is working in the Ministry/Department/Institution of
.............................. is working in the post of ..............................
and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action
pending against him/her and no decision has been taken to impose
any such in future. He/She can/cannot be released, from service
once he/she is selected for the post applied for.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department or Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
03-931/2

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
546
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open/Limited – Competitive Examination for Recruitment
to Class III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service - 2014
IN this notice "Service" means the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(S.L. Ac. S.)
1. Date of Examination.– Examination will be held in June,  2014
in Colombo and in Jaffna by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to
postpone/cancel the Examination.
2.  Number of vacancies to be filled through this examination is
as follows :
Open      - 62
Limited  - 43
3. Method of Recruitment.–  Candidates who have scored 40% of
marks or above in each subject at the written examination shall be
called for the interview in order of merit of the aggregate marks and
the selection for appointment will be made by the Board of Interview
appointed by the Public Service Commission on perusal of their
qualifications.
3.1 Number of persons to be appointed to the said post and
the effective date of appointment to be determined by
the order of the Public Service Commission. The Public
Service Commission has authority to fill any number of
vacancies or all the vacancies.
4. Qualifications :-
     4.1 Open Competitive Examination  :
 (a)  Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should possess a Degree in Commerce, Management,
Accountancy or Economics from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission
  or
(ii) Should be a holder of a Higher Diploma in Accountancy
or Commerce from the Sri Lanka Technical College or
Sri Lanka Institute of Higher Technical Education;
 or
(iii) Should have passed the Intermediate or Licentiate or
Higher Examination of the  Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or an Institute of Chartered
Accountants in any other commonwealth country;
or
(iv) Should have passed the Parts I and II of costs and
management Examination or Higher Examination
conducted by the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants of the United Kingdom or in any other
Commonwealth Country;
or
(v) Should have passed the First Professional Level or
Higher Level Examination of the Institute of Certified
Accountants of the United Kingdom or any other
Commonwealth Country;
or
(vi) Should have passed parts I and II Examination or
Higher level examination of Association of Charted
Certified Accountants of United Kingdom or in any
other Commonwealth Country;
or
(vii) Final Examination of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Managers of the United Kingdom.
(b) Physical Fitness.–  All candidates should be physical fit
in all aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(c) Other qualifications:-
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be of excellent  moral character.
(iii) No candidate will be permitted to sit for the Open
Competitive Examination more than two occasions.
(iv) A person holding priesthood in any of the religious
sects will be ineligible to sit this examination.
(v) A person will be deemed as qualified to sit the
Competitive Examination for  appointment to the
service, if  the candidate has fulfilled necessary
qualification in Para. 5.1 (a) in all respect as at
28.03.2014  (on the date of publication of Gazette
notification).
(d)  Age.– Candidate should not less 22 years and not more
than 28 years as at 28.03.2014 (on the date of publication
of the Gazette notification).
4.2  Limited Competitive Examination :
             (a)  Experience and qualifications :
(i) Possession of any of the qualifications set out in
Para 5.1 (a) above with not less than 5 years of
satisfactory, uninterrupted permanent service in the
Public Service or in the Provincial Public Service on
28.03.2014. (The date of publication of the Gazette
notification calling for applications) having earned a
minimum of 5 increments on the due date.
                                            or
(ii) Possession of not less than 10 years satisfactory
period of service in the Public Service or in the
Provincial Public Service in a permanent and
pensionable post which carries the salary scale of
MN 1- 2006 (A) or above having earned a minimum
of 10  increment on the due date.
(
b) Physical Fitness. – All candidates must be physically
fit all aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
547
 (c) Other Qualifications:-
(i) Candidates must be of excellent moral character.
(ii) Should have earned all the increments on due dates
during the immediately preceding five years of the
date of gaining eligibility’
(iii) Possession of five years satisfactory service during
the immediately preceding five years on 28.03.2014
(on the date of publication of the Gazette
Notification)
(iv) No person is entitled to sit the limited competitive
examination more than twice.
(v) Any person holding priesthood in any of the
religious sects will be ineligible to sit this examination
(vi) A person will be deemed as qualified  to sit the
competitive examination for appointment to service,
if the candidate has fulfilled necessary qualifications
in Para 5.2 (A) in all respects  as at 28.03.2014 (on
the date of Publication of the Gazette Notification)
5.  Conditions of Service.–  A selected candidate will be appointed
to the Grade III of Sri Lanka   Accountants’ Service subject to
general conditions of governing appointment of the Public Service,
conditions prescribed in the minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants
Service published in the Extraordinary Gazette  of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1670/33 dated 10
th of September
2010 and the amendments made thereto or to be made hereafter
(a) The Post is permanent. It is pensionable, Further, you
shall contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension
Fund / Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund.
(b) The officers who are appointed shall pass the First
Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka
Accountant’s Services within 03 years from the date of
appointment.
(c) The officers who are appointed, shall acquire the
proficiency of the official language in addition to the
language offered by the officers to qualify for the
appointment within 5 years in terms of the Public
Administration Circular 7/2001 and circulars incidental
thereto and if the officers who had qualified for this
appointment in other language shall acquire proficiency in
stipulated official language during the probation period.
6.  Structure and Monthly Salary Scales.– Monthly Salary Scale
as per Salary Code SL 1-2006 of the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006.
  Monthly Salary Scale.– SL 1-2006-Rs; 22935 -10X645- 8X790
– 17X1050 – Rs. 53,555.
7. Examination Fee. – The fee for the Open Competitive
Examination is Rs. 1000. The Fee for the Limited Competitive
Examination is Rs. 1000. If a candidate applies for both
Examinations the total fee is Rs. 1500. This fee should be paid
before closing date of applications at a Divisional Secretariat in
order to credit to the Revenue Head 2003.02.13. The receipt issued
from the Divisional Secretariat should be pasted to the relevant
cage in the application form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of
the receipt with the applicants. The fee is nonrefundable.
8.  Method of Application:-
(a)  The applications should be prepared strictly in accordance
with the specimen form annexed to this notification;
using both sides of a paper size A4 and should be filled
by the candidate himself.
(b) Item No.  01 to 03 of the application should be on the
first page. The application should be in the Language in
which the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
However, the Heading should be written in English (Block
Capitals) when preparing the application. (See Para. 12)
(c) The applications for the Open Competitive Examination
must be sent by Registered Post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla on or before 28.04.2014. The envelope
containing the application should clearly written "Open
Competitive Examination/Accountants" on the top left
hand corner. No application received after that date will
be accepted.
Note.- Applicants who are already in Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/State Corporations should
forward their applications through their Head of
Departments/Institutions.
(d) The applications for the Limited Competitive Examination
must be forwarded through the Head of Department to
reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch ,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 28.04.2014. The
envelope containing the application should be clearly
written "Limited Competitive Examinations/
Accountants" on the top left hand corner. No application
received after that date will be accepted. If a candidate is
sitting for both examinations the envelope should be
written "Open/Limited   Competitive Examinations /
Accountants."
(a) The post and the working place of the applicants
at the time of applying for the examination are
related to all matters pertaining to the examination
and any change in that respect will not be
considered thereafter.
(b) A press notice to that effect will be published in
the newspapers by the Department of
Examination, Sri Lanka as soon as the admission
cards are dispatched to the respective candidates.
If admission card is not received even after 2 or
3 days of such an advertisement steps should be

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
548
taken to notify the Department of Examinations
in the manner specified in the advertisement. It
would be advisable to keep the  following in
hand at the time of calling  the Department of
Examinations ; i.e. a certified photocopy of the
application form and the receipt at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of
applicants outside Colombo, letter of request
furnishing a fax number  to which admission cards
should be sent.
9.  Admission to the Examination:-
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to every person who has sent a
perfected application after paying the examination fees
before the due date. A candidate presenting himself for
the examination must produce his Admission Card with
signature certified, to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate, who fails to produce his Admission
Card, will not be permitted to sit the Examination.
(b) The candidate must sit the Examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him. Every candidate
should hand over their Admission Card of the relevant
examination  hall to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre on the first day presenting himself for the
examination at the hall. A set of rules to be observed by
all candidates are published in the Gazette.
(c) The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
(d) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.  A
candidate who violates any of those rules is liable to
punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner-
General of Examinations.
10.  Identification of a Candidate.– A Candidate will be required
to prove his identity   at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of
the Supervisor of the Examination Centre for each subject he offers.
For this purpose one   of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) A National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons;
(b) A valid passport issued by the Department of
Immigration and Emigration.
No Office Identity Card will be accepted.
11.  Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished
by candidate is found incorrect and has been done so within the
knowledge of him or if he has willfully suppressed a material fact,
he will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
12.  Any matter not provided in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
13.  Scheme of Examination:-
 (i) Language of Examination:
(a) The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English.
(b) A candidate can sit for the examination in any one of
the Languages of his choice.
Note : -  (i)  A candidate must sit all the papers of examination
in one and the same language.
            (ii)   A candidate will not be permitted to change the
medium of the examination given in his
application.
14.  Method of Testing :-
(a) An written examination consisting of the following
subjects : All the question papers consist compulsory
questions and the Candidates should answer all the
questions.
(i) Financial Accounting Paper I - 3 hours – 100 marks
(ii) Financial Accounting Paper II - 3 hours – 100 marks
(iii) Cost and Management Accounting - 3 hours – 100 marks
(iv) Public Financial Management - 3 hours – 100 marks
(v) Auditing and Investigations - 3 hours – 100 marks
(vi) General Intelligence and - 3 hours – 100 marks
Comprehension
Syllabus is given in at the end of this notice.
(b) Interview.– Only candidates who secured a minimum of
40% marks in each subject at the written examination
will be summoned for the interview. The number of
candidates to be called for the interview will be
determined by the Public Service Commission in order
of merit of the marks obtained by the candidates at the
written examination and according to the number of
existing vacancies as the case may be. Results of the
written examination will be sent to all candidates by the
Commissioner General of Department of Examination
on instructions of the Public Service Commission.
 15. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
16.  Method of Selection for Appointment .–  Candidates who
have scored higher marks in Order of the merit at the Open and
Limited Examinations and duly filled basic qualifications at the

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
549
interview will be selected.  Marks will not be given for interview.
In the event of candidate having tied for a place, the selection for
such a place will be made by the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Dr. B. M. S. B
ATAGODA,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISION
OPEN/LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO
GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA ACCOUNTANTS' SERVICE - 2014
Index No :
(for official use only)
Town in which the applicant sits for Town No.
the examination
Indicate the Town Number in which the applicant sit for
the examination and the Number of the same.
(Colombo 1, Jaffna 2)
Medium of the Examination:
Sinhala 2, Tamil 3, English 4,
(Please write relevant Number in the cage)
Changing of given medium is not permitted
Indicate whether the candidate applies fo r Open/Limited
Examination or Both
Limited – 1  Open-2        Both -3
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
1.0  Name :
1.1. Last Name with Initials: Mr./Mrs./Miss.   :–––––––––.
 (In Capital Letters) :––––––––––––.
Eg : Mr./Mrs./Miss
. SILV A, A.B.
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Capital Letters)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In Capital Letters)
2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.2 Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters
2.3 Official Address :–––––––––––.
( In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent:
–––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
(Officer in Public Service/Provincial Public Service/
Corporations should mention his official address and any
subsequent change should be notified immediately.)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1,     Male - 2
(Please write relevant Number)
3.2 Marital Status : -
Married - 1   Single - 2
(Please write relevant Number)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month  : Date :
3.4 Age as at 28.03.2014 :
(on the date of publication of Gazette Notification)
Years: Months :                   Days:
4.0 (To be filled by candidates for the Open Competitive
Examination) Please State :
4.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this
Examination under Para 5.1 :–––––––––––.
4.2 The Institutions from which such qualification has been
obtained :–––––––––––.
5.0 (To be filled by candidates for the Limited Competitive
Examination) Please State.
5.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this
Examination under Para 5.2 :–––––––––––.
 5.2 The Institutions from which such qualification has been
obtained.
(a)
Department Post From To Period
(b) (i) Service/Post :–––––––––––.
(ii) Class : From                        to
(iii) Class : From                        to
(iv) Total Service period  the Government as at 28.03.2014.
(On the date of publication of Gazette Notification) :
Years :–––––––––––.
Months :–––––––––––.
(a) Service in  (ii) above   :
Years : .................      Months : ......................

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
550
(b) Service in  iii above :
Years : .....................   Months : ......................
(v) Annual Salary as at 28.03.2014 (on the date of
publication of Gazette Notification)
6.0 6.1 The  years in which you have sat the Limited Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service.
Years:
1. .......................
2..........................
3..........................
 6.2 The  years in which you have sat the Open  Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service.
Years:
1. .......................
2. .......................
3. .......................
7.0 The cash receipt should be pasted to the application firmly :
(To affix the receipt)
(i) Amount Paid : . Rs :–––––––––––.
(ii) Place of amount paid :–––––––––––.
(iii) Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
(iv) Date of payment :–––––––––––.
8.0 Certificate by Candidate :
8.1 I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have
affixed receipt No….. dated …………….. being payment
of the Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the
rules governing the examination and any decision that
may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to during or
after the examination if it is found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of the examination.
8.2 I declare that during the five years preceding  28.03.2014
(on the date of  publication of Gazette Notification) I have
earned all the increment (excluding those conditional to
passing service or departmental examination) and that I
have not been subject to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning) for any offence
committed during the immediate proceeding five  years.
–––––––––––––,
 Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
9.0 9.1 Certificate of the Head of Department:  (To be filled by
candidates for the Open Competitive Examination only
where relevant and by all Candidates for the Limited
Competitive Examination) the Head of Institution in which
the applicant personal file  is been maintained, should sign
as the Head of the Institution.
I   hereby certify that the candidate named ……….
…………….has been serving in this office since ……..
and  his/her  work and conduct has been satisfactory and I
have checked all the particulars mentioned in Para 6 above
with the records available in the office and found that they
are correct and He/ She has paid  the prescribed examination
fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein  and that she/he
has signed  in  my  presence on …………. 2014.
                                                     ––––––––––––––,
                    Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Attester’s Full Name :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Should be supported by a Rubber Stamp)
9.2 Attestation  (To be filled by candidates for the Open
Competitive Examination only where relevant.)
 I do  hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss   ….. ……… who
forwards this application  is known to me personally and
placed his/her signature in  my  presence on this …….. day
of ……………2014.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester and Seal.
Attester’s Full Name :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note .–  Attester should be a Justice of the Peace,
Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public
or Government Servant drawing an annual consolidated
salary not less than Rs. 230,700.
APPENDIX I
Particulars regarding Open/Limited Competitive Examinations
conducted for  appointment to the Sri Lanka Accountants Service.
The examination will consist of the following examination papers.
No. Subjects Maximum Pass Time
Marks Marks
1 Financial Accountancy -I 100 40 03 hours
2 Financial Accountancy -II 100 40 03 hours
3 Cost and Management 100 40 03 hours
Accountancy
4 Public Financial Management 100 40 03 hours
5 Auditing and Investigation 100 40 03 hours
6 General Intelligence and 100 40 03 hours
Comprehension

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
551
SYLLABUS
Subject No. 01 and 02 - Financial Accountancy I and II
Purpose of Financial Accountancy and users of accounts and
information required by them.
Accounting Principles. – Accounting Equation, Double Entry
Book keeping and Accounting Systems, Prime Entry Books and
Ledgers. Trial balance, Accumulated pre-payments and
Adjustments, Capital Expenditure and income, Depreciations,
Suspense Accounts, Correction of Errors, Control Accounts,
Reconciliation Statements, Incomplete records.
Final Accounts.– Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Profit and
Loss Accounts, Balance Sheet, Fund Flow  Statement and
Appropriation Account.
Accounting for Partnerships. – Partnership Agreements, Book
keeping for partnerships, Fixed Capital Accounts, Current Accounts,
Accounting for debts, Drawing Accounts, Preparation of Final
Accounts for Partnerships, Changes in the composition of a
Partnership, Treatment of goodwill and action on other assets and
liabilities in admission of partners and dissolution of partnerships,
Joint ventures.
Accounting for Limited liability Companies.– Nature of Limited
liability Companies, Public listed Companies and Share market/
share and loan capital, Distributable profits, Final Accounts for
internal and external use, Defining Statements of Accounts,
Interpretation of financial statements, Accounting ratios.
Accounting for Specialized Transactions .– Societies and
associations, consignments, Branches, hire purchase and credit sale,
Leasing, investments, bill  of exchange, long-term contracts, royalties,
container accounts, foreign currency transactions.
Application of Computers for accounting.– Types of Computer/
Hardware and software, Computer Operating  Software, Electronic
Spreadsheets, Computer based Accounting.
Subject No. 03 – Cost and Management Accounting
Cost Accounting, Financial Accounting and Management
Accounting, Purpose of Cost accounting. Accounting as a
management aid.
Material Cost.– Purchasing procedures, Store Routines, Methods
of valuing material issues, Incentive allowances, and  bonuses.
Labour Cost .– Time keeping, time allocations, methods of
remuneration, payment of incentive allowances and bonuses,
Accounting for salaries and wages.
Overhead Costs. –  Allocation and apportionment of costs,
Absorption methods, Overhead administration & distribution,
Selling  and  Distributions.
Integrated and non-integrated Accounts.– Cost control account,
reconciliation of costs and financial accounts, integral accounts.
Methods of Costing. – Contract Costing, Job Costing,
Departmental Costing, Batch Costing, Process Costing, Unit
Costing, Services Costing, unrealized profits under different methods
of costing.
Marginal Costing. – Contributions/Sales, break-even charts,
application of marginal costing, accounting entries in marginal
costing.
Standard Costing.– Standard Costs, actual Costs, basic variances,
accounting procedures.
Budgetary Control.– Functional budgets, master budgets, flexible
budgetary control, continuous budgeting, Operation of budgetary
control.
Subject No. 4 - Public Financial Management
Legal framework of Public Finance. – The Consolidated Fund,
Special Law Expenditure, Contingencies Fund, Public Debt. Foreign
aid, Fiscal Measures.
The Role of the Parliament, The Minister of Finance, The
Treasury, The Auditor General, Public Accounts Committee,
Committee on Public Enterprises, The Chief Accounting Officer,
Department of national Planning Monetary Board.
The Annual Appropriation Bill.
Budgetary System and Procedures, Annual estimates of Revenue
and Expenditure.
Budget Implementation. – Organizational Structure for the
implementation of the budget, Revenue collection procedures,
Imprest for making payments, Supervision of financial operations,
Delegation of functions, Virement procedure, supplementary
estimates, Budgetary control, Procurement Procedure.
Government Accounting Systems and Procedures.– Custody,
security and control of government properties, Accounting for
revenue and other receipts, Accounting for foreign aid, Accounting
for losses, waivers and write-offs.
Review.– Flash reports summary of monthly accounts, Review
of financial and physical performance, the annual appropriation
account, The Auditor General’s  report on the island’s accounts, the
report of the Public Accounts Committee, The report of the
Committee on Public Enterprises.
Note:-
(i) Term a qualifying examination in (b) and (c) above refers
to any of the examination referred to in para 5.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of examination on one
and the same language

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
552
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium
of the examination given in his application.
(a) A candidate should sit the examination in the
language in which he passed the qualifying
examination or in the official language.
(b) A candidate who has passed subjects at the
qualifying examination on more than on language
should sit the examination in the language on which
he passed the majority of subjects at such
examination or in the official language.
(c) A candidate with a special degree who has passed
the principal subject in one language and the
subsidiary subject in another language should sit
the examination in which he passed the principal
subject or in the official language.
Subject No. 5. Auditing and Investigation
The nature and objectives of auditing  -  The role of the Auditor
Internal audit, external audit, statutory – in relation to the
Government Departments, Ministries and Corporations Under the
Constitution of Sri Lanka and Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 relating
to Non-statutory-under companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 – Auditing
Standards, Auditing Opinions, Auditing concepts, Independence
and other  personal qualities of Auditor, Evidence, Truthfulness
and Fairness, Materialism, Audit Risk, Auditors Responsibilities,
Responsibilities of person subjected to Auditing.
Scope and Limitations. – Determining  the Scope, Assumptions
and limitations, Role of Auditing standards and Guidelines.
The role of engagement letters, Management letters and
representation   letters, Basic auditing  methods and Evaluation of
internal control procedures.
Quantity Charts, Questionnaires
Audit Planning and Control
Audit Planning, timing, interim and final audits, assignment of
responsibilities for functions, Audit Control, Recording the work
done including the use of internal control, prepared questionnaires
and forms for evaluation of internal control.
Values, Concepts and Characteristics for financial auditing.
Its relevance to the Public Sector, Analytical auditing.
Auditing of Computerized Accounting Systems – Auditing
Limited Companies
Statutory books, powers and duties of Directors, Divisional
profits, Appointment of auditors, wages and removals. Action to
be taken before accepting new Auditors,  Powers  and duties of
Auditors.
Nature  and  extent of inspections.
Compliance  inspections, independent inspections, Sample
techniques, Balance sheet verifications, Verification of income and
expenditure accounts.
Professional responsibilities of Auditors and Accountants
Professional conduct and ethics legal  rights  and responsibilities,
Legal responsibility of Accountant and Auditor and Law relating to
the subject of knowledge on incidents.
Investigations.– Planning the scope of investigations, Techniques
and procedures to be used, Examples of intention for conducting
investigations, Feasibility studies Evaluation of business institutions
for the purchase, Sale, Credit rating etc., Accountant’s and Auditor’s
reports for prospectus, Reporting activities, fraud investigations,
Project evaluations.
Reporting Functions. – Reporting to the management about the
weaknesses in the internal control systems, special reporting
functions relating to Government and corporation audits, Reports
for the prospectus, Reports on investigations.
Subject No. 6 – General Intelligence and Comprehension
P
ART  ‘A ’
Questions will be asked from candidates based on a passage
given  in the comprehension question paper. Another passage is
given and the candidates have to summarize it to one third of  the
original number of words giving its prime meaning.
P
ART ‘B’
GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
Note:-
(i) Term a qualifying examination in (b) and (c) above refers
to any of the examination referred to in Para 5.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of examination on one
and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium
of the examination given in his application.
(a) A candidate should sit the examination in the language
in which he passed the qualifying  examination or in
the official language.
(b) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying
examination on more than on language should sit the

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
553
examination in the language on which he passed the
majority of subjects at such examination or in the
official language.
(c) A candidate with a special degree who has passed
the principal subject in one language and the
subsidiary subject in another language should sit the
examination in which he passed the principal subject
or in the official language.
03–969
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
Officers to the Post of House Warden (Male/Female)
Grade III of the Ministry of Health - 2013
APPLICATIONS are called again from eligible Sri Lankan citizens to
recruit to the Post of House Warden in Service Category of Non
Technical Management Assistant Segment 2, since a sufficient number
of applications for the above post have not been received from
eligible persons in response to the paper advertisement published in
Dinamina dated 05.01.2013 and Thinakaran 11.01.2013.
N. B.– (The eligible applicants who have already applied in
response to the above advertisements are not required to
apply again).
01. Method of Recruitment. – From the applicants who have
fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the notification, candidates
who will obtain higher marks from the written examination conducted
by the Secretary of the Health Minsitry will be recruited to the
Grade III considering the number of vacancies after an interview to
verify physical fitness and qualifications.
02. (i) Educational Qualifications :
* Should have passed 6 subjects in one sitting with credit
passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and two
other subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
and
* Should have passed at least one subject (except
Common General Test) at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination ;
and
(ii) Experience.– Should have 2 years experience as a House
Warden in a hostel of government or government affiliated
institute or an institute recognized by the government.
(iii) Physical fitness.– Should be fit physically and mentally
to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties
of the post.
(iv) Other :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
* Should possess a good character ;
* Should have fulfilled all qualifications which erquired
for the recruitment to the post in all aspects as at the
closing date.
03. Terms of employment and service conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and required to
make contributions to Widows/Widowers and Orphans'
Fund.
(ii) This post will be on probation for a period of three
years.
(iii) Should obtain the relevant language proficiency in the
other official language in addition to the medium in which
he/she entered the Public Service within 05 years of the
appointment.
(iv) Should pass First Efficiency Bar Examination within 03
years.
(v) Selected candidates will be subject to recruitment
procedure of Non Technical Management Assistant
Segment 2 and amendments made to it time to time,
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, procedural
Rules issued by the Public Service Commission and rules
and regulations issued by the government.
(vi) Promotions procedure will be implemented in relevance
to the post of House Warden (Male/Female) mentioned
in the recruitment procedure of Non Technical
Management Assistant Segment 2.
04. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than
30 years of age as at the closing date.
05. Salary scale.– Candidates will be recruited to the initial salary
step of the scale Rs. 13,120 -10x145 -11x170 -10x240 -10x320 - Rs.
22,040 under MN 01-2006(A) of the Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(IV).
06. Written Examination :
(a) Candidates who have submitted the applications
completed in all respects are only called for the written
examination.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
554
Paper Syllabus Duration Maximum Pass
marks marks
General Knowledge Testing logical explanation and general knowledge in relevant 02 hours 100 40%
to the relevant field
Intelligence Test Testing the candidate’s ability of understanding the meaning, 01 1/2 hours 100 40%
quantification and co-relation between the time and space
through the conclusions and responses of candidates to the
problems given in terms, numbers and pictures.
Note.– Marks will be deducted for illegible hand writing and
spelling mistakes in each written answer sheet.
(b) This examination will be held only in the towns given in the
schedule. Town which you prefer to sit for the examination
and the code of the town should be mentioned in the
application. If there will not be sufficient candidates to
conduct the examination in the town you prefer, actions will
be taken to give another examination center which is nearby
said town. Examination will be conducted only in the media
Sinhala, Tamil and English. It will not be allowed to change
the medium applied. A candidate should sit for the examination
in the medium he/she was qualified at the G . C. E. (O/L) or
the official language. Admission cards for the examination
will be sent to the address mentioned in the application by
the Director (Exam.) of the Ministry of Health.
(c) Identity of Candidates .– Following documents will be
accepted to prove the identity at the written examination :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons ;
2. Valid passport.
07. Method of Application .– Applications should be sent by
Registered Post to reach the following address on or before 25.04.2014
and the applications received or submitted by hand after that date
will be rejected.
Director (Admin.) 03,
Non Technical Administration Branch,
Ministry of Health,
“Suwasiripaya ”,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
08. Instructions to prepare and fill the application :
(a) Applications should be prepared in compliance with the
specimen form given at the end of this notification using
both sides of A4 size papers and No. 1.0 to 5.1 should be on
the first page and No. 5.2-9.0 should be on the second page
and the application so prepared should be filled by the
applicant’s own hand writing.
(b) At the top left corner of the envelope in which the applciation
is enclosed the words “Applicaton for the Post of House
Warden (Male/Female) ” should be mentioned and the town
you applied to appear for the examination and the code of
the town should also be mentioned according to the gazette
notification.
(c) Signature of the applicant should be certified by a principal
of Government School or Justice of the Peace or
Commissioner for Oaths or Attorney-at-law or Notary Public
or Commissioned Officer of Forces or Officer holding a
gazetted post in the police service or officer in Public Service
who holds a permanent post and earns an annual consolidated
salary above Rs. 273,060.
(d) Examination fee. – Every applicant should pay the
examination fee which is Rs. 300 by a money order addressed
to Secretary, Ministry of Health, “Suwasiripaya ”, No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo
10 which is payable to the General Post Office of Colombo.
Examination fee will not be refunded on any reason. Sending
a photocopy of this money order or paying money in any
other way will cause to reject the application.
(e) Applications which do not comply with the specimen form
of application given herein and the applications of the
applicants who have nto fulfilled the required qualifications
not paid money duly, mentioned the particulars incompletely
and the applications received after the of closing date will be
rejected without any notice. No complaint on delay or loss
applciation in post will be entertained.
09. Furnishing false information.– If any of the particulars given
by you in the application is found to be untrue or incorrect before
recruitment your candidature will be cancelled and if found so after
recruitment action will be taken to dismiss you subject to the relevant
procedures.
10. Final decision of any issue not covered by this gazette
notification, if any will be as directed by the Secretary of Health
filling the vacancies, not filling the vacancies or filling a half of the
vacancies will also subject to the final decision of the Secretary of
Health.
2nd  Reading
T - 04 (KJ)
Part 2 (26 - 46)

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
555
11. If there is any incongruity or contradiction among the Sinhala,
Tamil and Englsh texts of this gazette notification the text in Sinhala
will  prevail.
Dr. Y . D. NIHAL JAYATHILAKE,
Secretary of Health.
“Suwasiriyapa”,
Ministry of Health,
Colombo 10,
On 05th March, 2014.
SCHEDULE
Towns where the examination centres will be established and
codes of towns :
Town Code of Town
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kaluthara 03
Kandy 04
Mathale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
V avuniya 12
Mullativ 13
Kilinochchi 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF HOUSE W ARDEN (MALE/FEMALE)
IN THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH - 2013
Applying medium for the Examination : Town applying for the examination and the code of Town
Sinhala - 1 (According to the gazette notification)
Tamil - 2
English - 3 Town Code of Town
(mention the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)  Eg.– SILV A, A. D.
1.2 Full Name (In Block Capitals) :
1.3 Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. 2.1 Permanent Address (In Block Capitals) :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.3 Residing District :–––––––––––––.
2.4 Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
2.5 Address to which the admission for the examination should be psoted (In Block Capitals) :
03. 3.1 Gender :–––––––––––––.
3.2 Date of birth : Y ear : Month : Date :
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
3.4 Age as at the closing date : Y ears : Months : Days :
Town Code of Town

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
556
04. 4.1 Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :  Yes No.    (Mark 3 in the relevant cage)
05. Educational Qualifications (Should attache relevant certificates) :
5.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Subject Y ear
Index No.
Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
5.2 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
05
5.3 Do you have any experience :  Yes               No (Mark 3 in the relevant cage)
If yes, give the relevant particulars :–––––––––––––.
(Should have two years experience as a House Warden of a hostel in an institute of government or government affilliated institute
or private institute recognized by the government. Should attach the relevant certificates).
06. Have you applied for this examination previously in response to the relevant news paper advertisements as mentioned in the Gazette
Notification ?
Y es No   (Mark 3 in the relevant cage)
07. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the fee :
7.1 Office to which money is paid :–––––––––––––.
7.2 No. and date of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
7.3 Amount paid :–––––––––––––.
Affix here the receipt obtained by paying the fee.
Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you.
08. Certificate of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars, given above are true and correct according to my knowledge and belief and that I have paid
the prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt of paying money. I am also aware that if any of the particulars herein is found to be
false or incorrect before selection my application will be rejected and if found so after selection I am liable to be dismissed  from service
without any compensation.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
557
09. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. the appilcant is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in
my presence on ..................................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full name of the attesting officer :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Should place the official frank and authenticate)
03–775
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of the Students for the training of the Professions Supplementary to Medicine and
Para Medical Services – 2014
THE applications are hereby invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for recruitment to the following courses in the Pro fessions
Supplementary to Medicine and Para Medical Services under the Ministry of Health.
Code Name of the training course Training Period The medium in which the
No. training should be proposed
1 Medical Laboratory Technologist Trainee 02 years English
2 Pharmacist Trainee 02 years English
3 Physiotherapist Trainee 02 years English
4 Occupational Therapist Trainee 02 years English
5 Radiographer Trainee 02 years English
6 Public Health Inspector Trainee 1 1/2 years (six months field training) Sinhala/Tamil/English
7 Electro Cardio Grapher Trainee 01 year English
8 Electro Encephalon Grapher Trainee 01 year English
9 Opthalmic Technologist Trainee 02 years English
10 Dental Technician Trainee 02 years English
11 Entomological Assistant Trainee 02 years English
12 School Dental Therapist Trainee 02 years English
1. The eligible persons would be selected as 30% from the all island rank that prepared based on the rank list according to the Z
score obtained at the G . C. E. (A/L) examination and 70% based on the provincial rank. The number of pupils from those provinces would
be selected on the basis of existing vacancies in the hospitals and institutions under the linear Ministry and Provincial Councils.
When the applications are called for a course the applicants who have been passed at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in different
years based on Z-core of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination. The total number of students required for the training would be selected as a percentage
of the qualified applicants each year out of all the qualified applicants in all the different years.
2. The applicants who apply for 02 courses or more than that must prepare a preferential declaration according to the specimen
shown at the end of this and their preference for each course should be mentioned as a sequence from No. 01 when on an occasion in which
the relevant course is unable to be granted according to such preferential the applicants should be entered into the 1st course selected and
they would not be granted any opportunity for entering into the next course or transferring to any other course.
3. These courses are full-time courses. Therefore the students who study at any other institute in order to follow a full time course
in any university, Ministry of Health or another government institute should not apply for this. If anyone applies with such conditions and

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
558
if it reveals later, he/she will be dismissed from the course/post and all the bearing expenditures spent for he/she will be reimbursed. If any
one intends to apply as an academic who follows a full-time course in a University action should be taken as follows. Those who  have
already been registered for full-time courses under the Ministry of Health will be regretted.
3.1 You should cancel your registrations by recruitment date to the course, if you had been registered or have been registered for
a full-time course in an any institute such as a University or any other government institute someday. Applicants such as
those who are not attending to the lectures or who had not attended to the lectures should also cancel their registration before
the said as you will be treated as a scholar of a University. Enough written evidence should be with you in order to prove that
whenever necessary.
3.2 If you have completed a degree in an any University the effective date should be a date prior to the recruitment date to the
course..
For consideration :–
* You should notice that if all the above conditions from 3.1 - 3.2 been fulfilled and you should be granted the course that you
applied for, would not mean by any sentence of this gazette notification.
* If you have not obtained considerable Z-score or have not fulfilled any other condition you will not be eligible for these
courses on any basis.
* Further you are informed that even though you have obtained a sufficient Z-score and have been fulfilled the other conditions
unless you have fulfilled the conditions from 3.1 to 3.2 will not be eligible for these courses on any basis.
4. Education and other relevant qualification for the post :
Code Training G .C.E O/L G .C.E. A/L Other specific Qualifications
No. Course qualifications qualifications relevant for the training course
1 Medical Laboratory Should have passed the
Technologist G. C. E. O/L Examination in
six subjects including English
Language with at least credit
passes for Sinhala Language/
Tamil Language, Mathematics,
Science including another one
subject in  not more than
two sittings.
2 Pharmacist Should have passed the G . C. E.
O/L examination in six sbuejcts
including English Language with
at least credit passes for Sinhala
Language/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science including
another one subject in not more
than two sittings.
3 Physiotherapist Should have passed the G . C. E.
O/L examination in six subjects
including English Language with
at least credit passes for Sinhala
Language/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science including
another one subject in not more
than two sittings.
4 Occupational Should have passed the G . C. E.
Therapist O/L examination in six subjects
including English Language with
Should have passed 2 subjects No
from the subjects as Physics,
Biology, Agriculture,
Combined Maths in one
sitting and along with a credit
pass for 
Chemistry at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Should have passed in two No
subjects in one sitting from
Physics, Biology, Agriculture,
Combined Maths and along
with a credit pass for
Chemistry at the G. C. E.
(A/L) Examination
Should have passed 2 subjects No
in one sitting from the subjects
as Chemistry, Biology,
Agriculture, Combined
Maths along with a credit
pass for 
Physics at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination .
Should have passed 2 subjects No
in one sitting from the subjects
as Chemistry, Biology,

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
559
Code Training G .C.E O/L G .C.E. A/L Other specific Qualifications
No. Course qualifications qualifications relevant for the training course
at least credit passes for Sinhala
Language/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science including
another one subject in not more
than two sittings.
5 Radiographer Should have passed the G . C. E.
O/L examination in six subjects
including English Language with
at least credit passes for Sinhala
Language/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science including
another one subject in not more
than two sittings.
6 Public Health Inspector Should have passed the G . C. E.
O/L examination in six subjects
including English Language with
at least credit passes for Sinhala
Language/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science including
another one subject in not more
than two sittings.
7 Electro Cardio Grapher Should have passed the
G . C. E. O/L Examination in
six subjects including English
Language with at least
credit  passes for Sinhala
Language/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science
including another one subject
in not more than two sittings.
8 Electro Encephalo Should have passed the
Grapher G . C. E. O/L Examination in
six subjects including English
Language with at least
credit  passes for Sinhala
Language/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science
including another one subject
in  not more than two sittings.
9 Opthalmic Technologist Should have passed the
G . C. E. O/L Examination in
six subject including English
Language with at least
credit  passes for Sinhala
Language/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science
including another one
subject in  not more than
two sittings.
Agriculture, Combined
Maths along with a credit
pass for Physics at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Should have passed 2 subjects No
in one sitting from the subjects
as Chemistry, Biology,
Agriculture, Combined
Maths along with a credit
pass for Physics at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Should have passed in 2 subjects * Only the male applicants
in one sitting from Physics, are permitted to apply.
Chemistry, Agriculture and
along with a credit pass * Height should be 5 feet
for Biology or a Combined and 2 inches or more.
Maths at the G . C. E.
(A/L) Examination
Should have passed 2 subjects No
in one sitting from the
subject Chemistry,  Physics
and along with a  credit
pass for Biology at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Should have passed 02 subjects No
in one sitting from the subject
Chemistry, Physics and
 along with a credit pass
for Biology at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
Should have passed 02 subjects No
in one sitting from
Chemistry, Biology,
Agriculture and along with
a credit pass  for Physics at
the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
560
Code Training G .C.E O/L G .C.E. A/L Other specific Qualifications
No. Course qualifications qualifications relevant for the training course
Should have passed 02 subjects No
in one sitting from
Physics, Biology,
Agrictulrue, Combined
Maths and along with
a credit pass  for Chemistry
at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination.
Should have passed 02 * Only the male applicants are
subjects in one sitting permitted to apply.
from Chemistry, Physics,
Agrictulrue and along
with a credit pass  for
Biology at the G . C. E.
(A/L) Examination.
Should have passed 02 * Only the Female applicants
subjects in one sitting are permitted to apply.
from Chemistry, Physics,
Agrictulrue and along * Height should be 4 feet 10
wtih a credit pass  for inches or more.
Biology at the G . C. E.
(A/L) Examination. * All the applicants should be
Single/bachelor.
10 Dental Technician Should have passed the
G . C. E. O/L Examination in
six subject including English
Language with at least
credit  passes for Sinhala
Language/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science
including another one
subject  in  not more than
two sittings.
11 Entomological Should have passed the
Assistant G . C. E. O/L Examination in
six subject including English
Language with at least
credit  passes for Sinhala
Language/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science
including another one
subject in  not more than
two sittings.
12 School Dental Should have passed the
Therapist G . C. E. O/L Examination in
six subject including English
Language with at least
credit  passes for Sinhala
Language/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science
including another one
subject in  not more than
two sittings.
5. Other General Qualifications :
(a) The applications are called from candidates less than 18 years of age and not more than 30 years and who have paned
G . C. E. (A/L) and fulfilled relevant qualifications (The year is not concerned).
(b) You should agree to serve at least 10 years in the province where you are recruited after the training.
(c) Should be with good physical and mental condition.
(d) Should have resided in the district from where you apply for a 03 years continuous period prior to the closing date of
applications.
6. Method of application :
(a) The application should be prepared according to the specimen herewith. A4 size papers should be used for this. From
No. 01 to 10(a) should be in the first page and from 10(b) to 12 should be in the second page. Applications should be
parepared in accordance with the above mentioned instructions. Only one application should be forwarded when applying
for 02 or more courses. In such occasions preferential statement for training courses according to the No. 02 should be
forwarded with one application. And also the code numbers of the applying courses should also mentioned in the relevant
place on the first page (The code numbers are mentioned in the preferential statement).
(b) Stamps should be pasted on the place where "stamps" is mentioned in the application and it should be cancelled by your
signature. When you are applying for 02 or more courses, it is a must to paste stamps according toth e number of courses
as mentioned below :

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
561
* For 01 course Rs. 300
* For 02 courses Rs. 500
* For 03 courses Rs. 800
* For 04 courses Rs. 1,100
* For 05 or more courses Rs. 1,400
(c) The attestation of the applicant's signature should be done by an officer who serve in Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service/Government Accountant/Government Principal/Judge of Peace/Lawyer or by an
officer who owns the annual salary not less than Rs. 240,360 including the permanent status and pension.
(d) The duly filled application forms should be sent in registered post by indicating that "The recruitment of students for the
training of Profession Supplementary to medicine and Para Medical Services - 2014" and on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and (the applicant's Province and District) with one preferential statement before 28.04.2014. The application
should be sent to Director, (Administration) 02, Ministry of Health, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansha
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10.
7. Application of the Employees of Government Services or Semi Government Services should be sent through their relevant Head
of the Department. Also this should be noted an external recruitment.
8. You will not be informed on receipt of your application.
9. The applications receive after closing date will be rejected.
10. The applications that are not in according to the relevant species the condition of this notification will be refused without any
informing.
11. The limited number of applicants will be called for an interview based on priority list that prepare according to the z-score and
the interview will be conducted by the staff officers of Ministry of Health and representatives of other ministries. The origin al of the
following documents should be present at the interview by the applicant –
(a) Certificate of Birth,
(b) The G . C. E. A/L result sheet and the original of the z-score results. (Certified copy should be attached to the application).
(c) The original of the G . C. E. O/L result sheet,
(d) National Identity Card or valid Pass Port or Driving License (Certificate copy should be attached to the application),
(e) The Grama Niladhari Certificate (Village Officer Certificate) whcih the Divsional Secretary signed in terms of confirming
the residence as above 5(d).
(f) A formal affidavit that signed at the presence of a Judge of Peace in order to prove your civil status as single or bachelor.
(This will only be relevant to the applicants of School Dental Therapist Training).
12. The training procedure :
(i) The selected applicants from the interview will be admitted to each training school in terms to follow the relevant training
course. The courses should be followed in the medium of English/Sinhala/Tamil.
(ii) The recruited students for the training schools will be subjected to the rules and regulations of the training school and the
orders that are laid down by the Ministry of Health in time to time.
(iii) The training students, who fails at the examination or those who have unsatisfactory behavior or activities or those who
have been unable follow conditions regarding the examinations or leaves of the training school, should be terminated in any
occasion without any compensation.
(iv) The students will be paid on allowance of Rs. 12,360 per month in the training period.
(v) The students should sign an agreement along with a security Bond with the Director General of Health Services in order to
prove that training will be followed successfully, training will not be left out, after completion of that trainng if the
appointment is granted in terms of proving to serve at least 10 years in the relevant Provincial Council, to prove in order
to serve in the relevant post under the Ministry of Health. If anyone leaves the training or left the training during the training
period or if actions were taken to terminate the training according to the above mentioned sentence number III or if anyone
unable to fulfill the 10 year period of service at the relevant post under the Ministry of Health, He/She should pay the
whole amount of money that spent on his/her training as allowance and expenditures that were bonded by the Government
along with the amount of money mentioned in the Security Bond. If not legal actions will be taken in accordance with the
agreement to reimburse that amount of money.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
562
13. Conditions for recruitment.– The Government is not bond in terms of granting a permanent appointment at the end of the
training. However they will be considered to recruit to the class III of the relevant post based on the conditions of recruiting procedure and
exciting vacancies of the province. It is compulsory to serve ten years in the relevant province where  the first appointment is given.
Further, they will be considered to be appointed base on the performance list that prepared on the results of written tests at the
end of each and every course and above mentioned 70% who have been appointed under the Provincial level and 30% based on the all island
performance will be appointed to the Institutes where the vacancies are available.
14. When filling the application, information of education and other qualifications should be included correctly and carefully. If the
above mentioned certificates were found false, that case will be forwarded to the Criminal Investigation Department and that gi ven
appointment will be cancelled. The disciplinary actions regarding this will be taken in order to include their names to the bla ck list that
maintained by the government, hence they will not be entitled for future Government job opportunities. Further, allowances paid  in the
training period, all the expenditures that were given by the government during the training period and the amount of money mentioned in the
Security bond will be reimbursed.
15. All the applicants who have been selected for the training should prove their physical and mental fitness in terms of serving
in any area of the island during the first month after facing to a medical test and if the fitness is not sufficient that appli cants will not be
eligible to retain in the course.
16. All the recruited candidates as above mentioned procedure will be subjected to all the rules and regulations that relevant to the
government employees and provisions of Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Financial Regulations along
with other regulations and the rules and orders that laid down by the Government time to time.
17. If there is any fact that does not cover by this gazette notification and if there is a problematic condition arisen, the final
decision will be made by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health in this regard. Also, if there is any differences among Sinhala, Tamil and
English sentences, the Sinhala sentence will be authorized.
18. This Ministry is not bound in terms of supplying residential facilities in the training schools for the students. If it gra nts
electricity bill and water bill along with the rent for the rooms will be charged.
19. During this training period one has any right in union activities or serving private institutes, also if you are appointed after the
training, you will not have any right to engage in private services. If it reveals that you have violated these rules, legal actions will be taken.
Dr. Y . D. NIHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
“Suwasiripaya”, No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
10th March, 2014.
PREFERENTIAL STATEMENT FOR THE TRAINING COURSES
Code No. Name of the Training Course Preference
01 Medical Laboratory Technologist
02 Pharmacist
03 Physiotherapist
04 Occupational Therapist
05 Radiographers
06 Public Health Inspector
07 Electro Cardio Graphers
08 Electro Encephalo Graphers
09 Ophthalmic Technologist
10 Dental Technician
11 Entomological Assistant
12 School Dental Therapist

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
563
My preference for each course has been mentioned in the above table. I, hereby declare that I have not submitted any other
preferential declaration except this, I know that I should be enforced in to a training course that would be selected by the Ministry of Health
or to the first preference course when I am unable to enter in to a training course according to my preference, though I have s ubmitted a
preference declaration as above and I will not make any objection to it and I comprehended all the sentences of the gazette notification after
reading it.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
N. I. C. No. :–––––––––––––.
Date  :–––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Justice of the Peace
I do hereby certify that the applicant who submit this preference declaration Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is known to me
well and that he/she placed his/her signature at my presence.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Judge of Peace.
Date :–––––––––––––. Offical Frank of the Judge of Peace.
* Full name of the Judge of Peace :–––––––––––––.
* Address :–––––––––––––.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR THE TRAINING OF PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINE AND PARA MEDICAL SERVICE – 2014
READ PROPERLY BEFORE COMPLETE THE APPLICATION
* Code No. of the course/courses (applying for as in the gazette notification)
01. ( a) Name with initials :–––––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) :– Ex. A. B. C. Silva
(b) Name in full (in English block letters)  :–––––––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil)  :–––––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No.  :–––––––––––––––. (a copy should be attached)
03. Postal Address : Sinhala/Tamil English
............................................ ............................................
............................................ ............................................
............................................ ............................................
............................................ ............................................
04 ( a) Permanent Address : Sinhala/Tamil English
............................................ ............................................
............................................ ............................................
............................................ ............................................
............................................ ............................................
(b) Telephone No. : Mobile  :–––––––––––––––. Permanent  :–––––––––––––––.
(c) Resided district : Sinhala/Tamil  :–––––––––––––––. English  :–––––––––––––––.
(d) Are you resident in this District : Yes/No :–––––––––––––––.
(e) If it is “Yes” how long :–––––––––––––––.
05. Date of birth : Date :–––––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––––,  Year :–––––––––––––––.
Age as to ...........2014 : Days :–––––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––––,  Years :–––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
564
06. Height : Feets :–––––––––––––––.  Inches :–––––––––––––––.
07. Sex : Male Female (put a '3' in the relevant box)
08. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka : Yes           No               (put a '3' in the relevant box)
09. Civil Status : Married Single
10. Education Qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. Advanced Level Examination (attach a certificated copy of the A/L  result sheet with Z-Score mark) :
District which faced the exam :–––––––––––––––.
Year :–––––––––––––––.      Index No. :–––––––––––––––.
Z-Score :–––––––––––––––.
# Subject Result
1
2
3
4
(b) G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination (attach a certificated copy of the A/L result sheet with Z-score mark) :
# Subject First attempt Second attempts
Year Year
Index No. : Index No. :
Result Result
1 Sinhala/Tamil Language
2 Mathematics
3 Science
4 English
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Please mention all the subjects appeared for at the G . C. E. (O/L) in the above table.
11. Have you ever been convicted by a court : Yes             No              (put a '3' in the relevant box)
If it is yes, describe :––––––––––––––.
12. Certificate of Applicant :
(a) I hereby conform that the particulars of the applications was filled in accordance with the provisions of the Gazette notification
after reading and comprehending it properly and I am not participating to any other full time course and the particulars of these
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
(b) I am aware that I am liable for disqualify as a trainee or termination of my service (even if I have been appointed at any time) if the
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false.
As per the Gazette notification 6(a) the stamps for the relevant course/courses should be pasted.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attesting.
Date :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
565
13. Attestation of the Signature (Applicant) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ is known to me well personally and that he/she placed his/her signature with
my presence.
Date :........................... ––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Full name of the person attesting :––––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––––.
Address :.......................................
 .......................................
 ........................................
03–876
––––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
RECRUITMENT (LIMITED) TO FILL THE VACANCIES IN
THE POSTS OF SERVICE CATEGORY OF MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANT (NON TECHNOLOGY) SEGMENT 2 OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
TRAINING - 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from the officers, who fulfilled the
prescribed qualifications of relevant Departmental Priliminery
Service category, concerned of the Department of Technical
Education and Training, to fill the existing vacancies in the following
posts of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Applicants, should hold permanent appointments and should have
been confirmed in such appointment.
Post Number of Posts belongs to
Vacancies Departmental
priliminary service
categories, able to apply
1.  Premises Overseer 07 Mason, Carpenter,
Electrician
2.  Workshop Assistant 11 Electrician, Fitter,
Machanist, Mason,
Carpenter
01. Recruitment Procedure. - Recruitment will be made on the
results of written examination and structural Interview. Written
examination will be held at first and candidates who got highest
marks based on the merit order, among the candidates, who pass
the written examination will be called for an interview as twice the
existing No. of vacancies. Appointments for Class III of the post,
concerned will be made on merit order according to the total marks
obtained from structural interview and written examination and
number of vacancies, available.
(i) Written Examination :
Question paper Duration Maximum Pass
marks marks
1. General Knowledge 01 hour 100 40%
and Inteligence
(ii) Structural Interview :
Main headings, to be given marks Maximum marks
Additional Educational Quailfications 20
Additional V ocational Qualifications 35
Additional Experience 30
Profficiency in Language 10
Skills at the interview 05
Total 100
02. Educational Qualifications.– Have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary
Level) Examination in Six (06) subjects including Language and
Mathematics, with at least 02 Credit passess in not more than two
(02) sittings.
03. Vocational Qualifications for each post :
(a) Premises Overseer  :
Have followed a National Vocational Quailfication (NVQ)
Level 4 course in construction field and obtained a
certificate from an institution, recognized by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission.
(b)  Workshop Assistant :
Have followed a National V ocational Qualification Course
in Mechanical/Civil field and obtained a certificate from
an institution, recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
566
04. Service Experience. - At least 05 year continuous and
satisfactory period of service should have been completed as on the
closing date of applications, after obtained permanent appointment
in the above referred Departmental post, which can be applied,
belongs to the Department of Technical Education and Training and
such should have been certified by the Head of the Department.
Period of Training which has been served before permanent
appointment to any post or has been served as a condition to an
appointment to any post permanently or a period of temporary/
casual/releif service, which has been served before permanent
appointment to a post will not be considered for the 05 year period
of qualifying.
05. Age limit.- Not applicable.
06. Salary.- In terms of Public Administration Circular No.
6/2006(iv) salary sacle Rs. 13,120 -10x145 -11x170 - 10x240 -
10x320 - Rs. 22,040 of Salary Code No. MN-1-2006(A) is
appilcable to this post.
07. All candidates, who apply for the above referred posts,
should be a citizen of Sri Lanka with a moral character and have
sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to discharge the duties of the post. All qualifications
need to recruit to each post should have been fulfilled in every
manner, by the closing date of applications.
08. Mode of forwarding Applications :
(i) Applicants, prepared according to the undermentioned
specimen form, in A4 size paper using both sides with
item No. 01 to 07 appearing in 1st page, No. 8 to 10 in
2nd page and other matters in next pages, duly filled in
his/her own hand writing, should be sent under registered
cover to reach “Director General, Department of Technical
Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10” before 28th April 2014. The envelope,
enclosing the application should be clearly marked
“Application for the post of ...........” (relevant post should
be stated) on the top left hand corner.
(ii) Applications, which are of non compliance with specimen
application and include incomplete perticulars and
applications received after the closing date of applications
will not be entertained. Applicants are adviced to send
their applications in time to avoid the possibility of postal
delay.
(iii) Separate applications should be submitted for each post.
(iv) Application should be completed in language medium of
examination.
(v) The fee for a post is Rs. 100 and examination fee should
be paid for each post separately. Such fee should be paid
at any People’s Bank branch in the Island to the Account
Number 176-100-139026228 (Mid City Branch) as
credited to the Director General, Department of Technical
Education and Training the receipt obtained should be
firmly affixed in the application form. It will be useful to
keep a photocopy of the application and a receipt.
Examination fee will not be refunded under any
circumstances and money order and stamps will not be
accepted.
(vi) Every candidate should attest their signature by a Director
or Principal or Registrar of College of Technology/
Technical College.
(vii) Self addressed envelope in the size of 23cm x 10cm with
stamps, affixed to the value of Rs. 30 should be enclosed
to the application form to send the Admission Card of
examination to candidates.
(viii) Candidature will be repealed if any information, mentioned
in the application being detected as incorrect, before the
recruitment. If such information being detected as
incorrect, after the appointment, action will be taken to
dismiss form the service.
(ix) Applications, should not be sent to the name of any
officer of the Department and any application sent, do
so, or hand over personally will not be accepted. Inquiries
about applications lost or delayed in post, will not be
considered. Receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged.
09.  Implementation of official languages policy.- Proficiency in
other official language of relevant level, should be obtained, within
05 years from the date of appointent, in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and Circulars, incidental
thereto.
10. Examination Procedure :
(i) Admission cards will be issued by the Director General
of Department of Technical Education and Training to
the candidates who sent applications formally.
Candidates, appearing for the examination in prescribed
examination hall, should submit their admission card, with
their duly attested signature, to the supervisor of the
examination hall. Permission will not be granted to any
candidate, without submiting the admission card to sit
the examination.
(ii) Traveling expenses or any other allowances, incure by
the candidates for appearing for this examination will not
be paid.
(iii) Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction
of the supervisor of the examination hall, relating to every
subject they appear in the examination hall. Any one of
the following documents only, will be accepted for this
purpose :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of persons ; or
(b) A valid passport.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
567
(iv) Examination will be held in only Sinhala and Tamil medium.
Permission will not be granted later to change the language
medium applied.
(v) All candidates who paid prescribed fee and submitted
applications on or before the prescribed date, will be
allowed by the direcor General of the Department of
Technical Education and Training to sit the competitive
examination, or prior conclusion that the candidates who
have quailfications mentioned in the Notification for
calling applications, only have applied. Appearing for
competitive examination, will not be treated as an
acceptance of the fulfillment of qualifications.
(vi) Candidates will subject to the rules and regulations,
stipulated by the Director General of Department of
Technical Education and Training, relating to conduct the
examination.
(vii) This examination will be conducted by the Testing and
Evaluation Division of the Department of Technical
Education and Training at the examination centres in
Colombo only.
11. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers and
Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) Candidates should liable to serve in any College of
Technology/Technical College, comes under the purview
of this Department, as would be stipulated.
(iii) Selected candidates should subject to the provisions of
scheme of recruitment relevant to the post, provisions
in Establishments Code, Financial Regulations and to
the rules and regulations issued by the Government or
Line Ministry or Director General of the Department of
Technical Education and Training.
(iv) General conditions and provisions, mentioned in the
Procedural Rules pubilshed in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 by the Public Service
Commission are applicable.
12. Director General of the Department of Technical Education
and Training reserves the right to fill all or a part of the vacancies.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the
Tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
S. B
ALASUBRAMANIAM,
Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10,
28th March, 2014.
A
PPLICA TION FORM
For office use
APPLICA TION FOR COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT (LIMITED) TO
THE POST OF ........................ SERVICE CATAGORY OF MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANT (NON TECHNOLOGY) SEGMENT - 2 OF DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING - 2013
Language medium
for the examination Sinhala - 1 Tamil  - 2
01. Name of the Condidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (In block capital
letters) :–––––––––––.
(Eg. : SILV A, A. B. C.)
(ii) Full Name (In block captial letters) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or Telephone Number, should
be informed immediately) :
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
04. Age as at clsoing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––––.  Months ::–––––––––––,  Days :
05. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
06. Sex : Male/Female :–––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/widow :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject G rade

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
568
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject G rade
09. V ocational Qualifications :
Examination/ Y ear Subjects Grade Name of the Institute/
Diploma University
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institutions Post Period of Whether Government/
service Semi Government/Private
11. Highest Examination passed in following subject :
Sinhala :–––––––––––.
Tamil :–––––––––––.
English :–––––––––––.
12. If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka, state by decent or registration
(If registration, state details) :–––––––––––.
13. People's Bank Branch which examination fee has been paid :
––––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here
I hereby certify that the particulars furnshed by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars
contained there is are found to be false and incorrect before the
selection I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... who
is working in the Department of Technical Education Training is
working in the post of ............................. and his/her work and
conduct are satisfactory, no deciplinary action pending against him/
her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in future and
the correct examination fee has been paid and the receipt for the
same is affixed.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
03-931/1
–––––––––––––––––
AUDITOR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Audit
Examiners to Grade II of the Audit Examiners'
Service – 2014
A competitive examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations to select suitable candidates for the Posts
of Audit Examiners Grade II of the Audit Examiners' Service in terms
of the Provisions in Paragraph 6(II)(b) of the Minute of said service.
Applications are invited from the candidates possessing the required
qualifications as stated i this notification.
01. Date of examination.– The examination will be held by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in Colombo and Jaffna in
the Month of July 2014. The Auditor General reserves the right to
postpone or cancel this examination.
02. Number of persons to be appointed and the effective date. The
effective date of appointments will be determined by the Auditor
General. The Auditor General reserves the right to refrain from filling
any or all of the vacancies.
03. Service Conditions :
(i) The selected candidates will be appointed to Grade II of
the Audit Examiners' Service on the general conditions
governing the appointments of the Public Service published
at the beginning of the Paragraph (IIb) of Part I of the
Ordinary Gazette, conditions set out in the Minute of
Audit Examiners' Service published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 380/61 dated 20th December 1985 of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and
subjected to amendments made or to be made hereafter to
the said Minute.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. You are required
to pay 7% of your monthly earnings to the Widows' and
Orphans' Pension Fund from the date of your appointment.

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
569
(iii) The successful candidates will be appointed to this service
on probation for a period of three years from the date of
appointment.
(iv) Confirmation at the end of their probationary period of
successful candidates competing in this Examination will
be inter-alia depend on :
(a) Satisfactory work, attendance and conduct.
(b) Passing of Efficiency Bar Examination before the end
of probation period.
(v) His/her Service will be terminated if he/she fails to secure
confirmation at the end of the probationary period.
(vi) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
dated 20th May 2007, proficiency of the other official
language should be acquired within five (05) years from
the date of appointment.
(vii) Selected officers may be called upon to serve in any part of
the Island.
(viii) This appointment will be subjected to the Procedural Rules
of the Public Service Commission, the Establishments Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Government Financial Regulations, Orders and Regulations
that may be issued by the Government from time to time
and the Circulars, instructions and Orders that may be
issued by the Auditor General's Department from time to
time.
04. Salary Scale.– The consolidated slary scale relating to Grade
II of the Audit Examiners' Service in terms of the Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006(iv) is, Rs. 16,720 -10x320 -11x365 -15x450 -
Rs. 30,685 (Efficiency Bar before Rs. 17,680).
05. Health and Discipline .– The candidate must satisfy the
Auditor General that he/she is duly qualified in respect of health and
an excellent moral character. The candidate must be of sound
constitution, possessed of good sight and physically qualified for
service in any part of the Island. When a candidate who is already
not in the Public Service/provincial Public Service is selected, he/she
should appear for a medical test.
06. Qualifications.– All candidates should :
(a) be a Citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) be not less than 22 years and not more than 32 years of
age for the persons not in the Public Service/Provincial
Public Service as at the end of the closing date of
application and the applicants who are in the Public Service
should not be more than 40 years of age,
(c) have an excellent moral character and must be of sound
constitution ;
(d) have obtained one of the following qualifications :
(i) Should be graduate of a recognized University or
have obtained equivalent qualification ;
or
(ii) Should have passed the Examination of Licentiate or
Intermediate of the Institute of Charatered
Accountants in Sri Lanka ;
or
(iii) Should have passed the Higher National Diploma in
Accountancy/Commerce of Technical College of Sri
Lanka/Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education.
(e) No member of clergy of any religion will be permitted to
appear for this examination.
Note.– The candidates who compete for this examination should
be able to produce certificates of their educational and
professional qualifications, immediately at the request of
the Auditor General. Applications submitted on pending
results will not be entertained.
Note.– A candidate will be deemed to have qualified only if he/
she has :
(i) successfully compeleted in every respect the
examination or examinations required to pass as at 25th
April, 2014 ; and
(ii) submitted at the interview, an official certificate or any
official document on behalf of the said certificate or the
qualifications that can be accepted by the Auditor
General.
07. Examination Fees.– The examination fee is Rs. 600. This fee
should be paid to any Divisional/District Secretariat in the Island
before the closing date of applications with instructions that it should
be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations and the receipt obtained should be affixed to the
application. The examination fees paid will not be refunded fully or
partly in any circumstances. (Keeping a photocpy of the cash receipt
with you will be helpful).
08. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared in accordance with
the specimen form annexed to this notification, using both
sides of the papers in A4 size as from 01 to 04 on first
page, 05 to 06 on second page, 07 to 09 on third page and
10 to 12 on fourth page and should be filled by the
candidate himself. Appilcations which are incomplete and
not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will
be rejected without any notice. It would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
(b) The application should be filled in the language in which
the candidate eligible to sit for the examination (Refer
Paragraph 12). The title of the examination appearing in

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
570
the specimen should be indicated in English Language as
well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
(c) Application for the Open Competitive Examination must
be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations Sri
Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 25th April
2014.
The top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should bear clearly the words “Open
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of
Audit Examiners Grade II -2014”.  No application received
after the closing date will be accepted. Candidates who
are in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should
send their applications through their Heads of the
Department/Institution.
(d) Applications which are not completed in every respect
will be rejected. No allegation that an application has
been lost or delayed in the post will be considered. Further
the issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualification
to sit for the examination. Such admissions are subjected
to subsequent inquiries.
(e) Applications will not be acknowledged. A notification
will be published in newspapers by the Department of
Examinations Sri Lanka as soon as the Admission cards
are issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement.
It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the
time of calling the Department of Examinations i. e. certified
photocopies of time of calling the Department of
Examinations i. e. certified photocopies of the application
form and the cash receipt kept at your possession, receipt
of registration, indicating your full name, address, NIC
No. and the name of Examination accurately and in case
of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing
a fax number to, which the admission card should be sent.
(f) Candidate's signature in the application form and in the
admission card should have been attested by an authorized
person. Applicants who are already in Public Service or
Provincial Public Service should get their signatures
attested by their Heads of Departments or by an officer
authorized to do so on his behalf, other candidates should
get their signatures attested by anyone of the following :
i. e . a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, an
Attorney at Law, Notary Public, a Principal of a
Government school, a public officer drawing a annual
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or over, a Chief
Incumbent or Higher Priest of a Buddhist Temple, a
member of the clergy of any other religion who is in
charge of a place of workshop or holding a position of
importance in such places of worship, a Commissioned
Officer in three Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazetted
Post in the Police Service.
09. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue an
Admission Card to every person whose application has
been received. A candidate must sit for the examination at
the examination hall assigned to him and submit the
admission card with the candidate's authenticated
signature to the supervisor on the first day presenting
himself for the examination. A candidate who fails to
produce his admission card will not be permitted to sit
for the examination ;
(b) A candidate must sit for the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him. On the first day of the examination,
admission card with the candidate's authenticated
signature should be handed over to the Supervisor of the
examination. A set of rules to be followed by all candidates
is published in this Gazette ;
(c) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualification
to sit for the examination ;
(d) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. A candidate
who violates any of those rules is liable to punishment at
the discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
10. Identification of the Candidates.– A candidate will be required
to prove his identity at the examination to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he or she appears. For this purpose, only
the following documents will be accepted :-
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport issued by the Department of Immigration
and Emigration.
11. Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by the candidate is found to be false within his knowledge
or if he/she has willfully suppressed a material fact, her/she will be
liable to dismissal form the Public Service.
12. Method of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Languages ;
(b) A candidate should sit for the examination in the language
in which he passed the qualifying examination or in the
official language.

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
571
subsequently the results will be informed personally to all candidates
sat for the examination.
16. The decision of the Auditor General will be final regarding
issues on matters not covered by the above regulations.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice pubilshed
in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice published in Sinhala
medium shall prevail.
H. A. S. S
AMARAWEERA,
Auditor General.
Auditor General's Department,
No. 306/72,
Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla,
25th April, 2014.
APPENDIX "A"
S
YLLABUS OF THE WRITTEN TEST
(i) Accounting - One paper of three hours duration on
* Accounting Theory .– A general understanding of basic
concepts and principles, methods of assets valuation,
theory of double entry, classification of costs, calssification
of information in balance sheets and manufacturing, traidng
and profit and loss accounts.
* Accounting Systems.– Understanding the concept of control
based on the need to control changes in resources used in
an accounting entity : need for comparison with standards
; analysis of business transactions familiarity with
procedures governing basis management functions such as
purchasing, selling, receipt and payment of moneys,
inventory control etc., familiarity with different designs
of records, day books, ledgers, control accounts, etc.
* Accounting practice problems including the preparation
of balance sheet, manufacturing, trading and profit and
loss accounts, reconciliation statements, control accounts
etc., accounting and statistical ratios.
(150 marks)
(ii) Cost Accounting - One paper of two hours duration on
* Principles of costing, types of costing, purchase and
stores procedure, materials, pricing of materials, pricing
of issue of materials, wages, overheads, fixed and variable
expenses, direct and indirect expenses, budgetary control,
standard costing, variations, marginal costing, contract
costing, process costing, job costing, transport costing,
output costing.
(100marks)
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying
examination in two or more langauges should sit for the
examination in the languages in which he passed the
majority of subjects at such examination or in the official
language.
(d) A candidate with a Special Degree who has passed the
core-subject in one langauge and the subsidiary subject in
another language should sit for the examination in which
he passed the principal subject or in the official language.
Note :
(i) The term "Qualifying Examination" in (b) and (c) above
refer to any of the examinations referred to in paragraph
06.
(ii) A candidate must sit for all the papers of examination
in one and the same language.
13. Method of Testing :
(a) A written test on the following five subjects and a viva
voce test :
Duration Total
(Hours) Marks
1. Accounting 03 hours 150 marks
2. Cost Accounting 02 hours 100 marks
3. Auditing 03 hours 150 marks
4. Business Mathematics and 02 hours 100 marks
Statistics
5. Environment - Part I - Economics 01 hour 50 marks
Part 2 - General Commercial 01 hour 50 marks
knoweldge
Part 3 - Commercial Law 01 hour 50 marks
The syllabus of the written test in shown in Appendix 'A'.
(b) Candidates who obtain a minimum of 40 percent of the
marks in each paper and an average of not less than 50
percent of the aggregate marks only will be eligible to be
called up for the interview and the interview will be held on
a date intimated after the date of written test. The interview
will be confined to scrutinizing the qualifications, certificates
and service records of candidates and marks will not be
given for the interview. The interview board is appointed by
the Auditor General.
14. Method of Selection for Appointment.– Those who have scored
the highest marks totalling the marks for 05 papers in the written
test will be selected. In the event of more than one candidate have
scored similar marks, the final decision for selection will be made by
the Auditor General.
15. Results sheed including the names of qualified candidates as
per Paragraph 13(b) will be posted to the Auditor General and

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
572
(iii) Auditing - One paper of three hours duration on
* Auditing concepts and theory.-  Need for audit ;
accountability as a base for audit ; scope of audit, classes
of audit ; timing of audit, qualifications of auditors ;
powers ; authority for audit, pre-audit; internal check,
internal control; in depthaudti, internal audit, the need for
standards ; types of evidence for audit, techniques.
* Auditing systems and procedures. - Familiarity with audit
programmes covering the main balance sheet,
manufacturing, trading and profit and loss account items,
land, buidlings, fixed assets, inventories, money assets,
sales, purchases, receipts, payments, etc.
* Auditing problem.- Simple problems to test powers of
observations, ability to detect errors and unusual
situations.
* Functions of the Auditor General.
(150 marks)
(iv) Business Mathematics and Statistics.- One paper of two hours
duration on Elements of Business Mathematics and Statistics.
(100 marks)
Mathematics -
* Equations - Linear and quadratic equations including
graphical solutions.
* Series - Arithmetic and Geometrid
Simple and compound interest including discounting.
* Elementary probability theory including permutations and
combinations. Use of mathematical table.
Statistics –
* Collection, presentation and interpretaion of data.
* Analysis of frequency distributions ; averages and
dispersion ; stnadard deviation ; frequency curves.
* probability, distribution and its application ;
* Sampling and significance concept of sample distributions,
standard error, methods of sampling, tests of significance.
* Time Series - Components of a time series, trends, seasonal,
cyclical and irregular.
* Graphic communication, statistical graphic charts.
(v) Environment - One paper of three hour duration on the
following subjects.
Elements of Economics, Law and General Commercial
Knowledge.
(150 marks)
Economics :
* Nature and significance of the study of economics, the price
system, demand and supply, cost and revenue, maximization
of profits, factors of production, competition and monopoly.
* The characteristics of the economy of Sri Lanka ; national
income ; gross national product, balance of payments ;
economic problems such as inflation, recession, fixed and
floating exchange rates, devaluation.
* Money and banking - Nature, forms and functions of money ;
value of money ; general levels of prices ; functions of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Commercial Banks, Credit and
Savings Institutions.
Law :
* An outline of the history of different systems of law in Sri
Lanka and in general their applicability ; organization and
functions of courts, labour tribunals, industrial courts ;
functions of judges and other important legal officers engaged
in the administration of justice in the in Sri Lanka.
* Nature of contract ; natural and legal person ; agency ; doctrine
of ultra vires.
General Commercial Knowledge :
* Office organization including systems and procedures, filing
and indexing, office applicances, organization of meetings ;
writing of minutes, reports.
* Organization sturcture ; organization chart, line staff
relationship, centralization, decentralization, business units
including sole trader, partnership, joint stock companies,
Co-operatives, public corporations.
* Principles and classes of insurance ; Sri Lanka Export Credit
Insurance Corporation.
* Crriage of goods by sea, land and air ; freight ; demurrage.
* Negotiable instruments ; meaning of negotiability ; cheques ;
bills of exchange; endorsements; corsings; acceptance;
dishonour.
* Role of co-operatives in Sri Lanka.
* Principles of investment; stock exhange in Sri Lanka.
* Sale of goods including contract of sale, the passing of
wornership of the property in the goods, conditions and
warranties, hire purchases, purchase on installment basis.
* International trade including procedure, documents, methods
of export, import, methods and terms of payment, customs
and exicse duties.

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
573
* Development finance including the functions of the National
Development Bank, Development Finance Corporation,
World Bank, International Monetary Fund.
(150 marks)
Index No.
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF AUDIT
EXAMINERS TO GRADE II OF THE AUDIT EXAMINERS' SERVICE - 2014
(Applciation form to be prepared in two A4 size papers as No.
01-04 in first page, No. 04-06) in second page, No. 07 to 09 in third
page and remainder in fourth page)
Town and Town No. in which you Town Town No.
intend to sit the examination :
COLOMBO - 1
JAFFNA - 2
(Indicate the Town in English block capitals and Town No. in the
cage)
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Language medium will not be allowed to change subsequently)
01. Name :–––––––––––.
02. Address :–––––––––––.
(An officer in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should
write his/her official address)
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Civil Status :
Married - 2 Single - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
3.4 Date of birth :–––––––––––.
3.5 Age as at 25th April 2014 :–––––––––––.
04. Race :–––––––––––.
05. (i) Qualifications you have obtained to sit for this examination :
Qualifications Date of Subjects Date of Institution from
obtained obtaining Issuing which the
qualifications results qualification
obtained
(ii) Subjects passed at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Subjects Pass obtained
06. Extra educational and professional qualifications :––––––––––.
07. Names and addresses of two referees nominated by the candidate
to certify his/her character and capacity :
(i) –––––––––––.
(ii) –––––––––––.
08. Candidates who sit for this examination while serving in the
Public/Provincial Public Service should fill the following :
(i) The Service/Departmental Grade you belong to :––––––.
(ii) Date of confirmation in the Service/Departmental Grade :
Year : Month : Date :
09. The cash receipt should be affixed on the application firmly :
(i) Number of the Receipt :–––––––––––.
(ii) Place of payment :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of payment :–––––––––––.
(iv) Amount paid (Rupees) :–––––––––––.
(Keeping a photocopy of the cash receipt with you would
be helpful)
10. Certificate by candidate :
I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given here is true and that I have attached the receipt
bearing No. .......................... dated ..................... being payment of
examination fees. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing
examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior or during or after the examination, if it is found
that, I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2014
574
11. Attestation : (Refer Paragraph 08(f)of the Gazette notification) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................... who
forward this application is known to me personally and placed his/
her signature in my presence on ........................ 2014.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and Seal of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
12. Certificate of the Head of the Institute :
(For candidates competing in the Open Competitive Examination
and who are already in Public Service/Provincial Public Service) :
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................. is
serving in this office from ....................... and his/her work, attendance
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
and conduct is satisfactory and I personally checked all the
information furnished in cages 01 to 08 above with the records
available in this office and found correct and he/she could be/not be
released from the present post, if selected for this appointment and
he/she signed in my presence on ........................ 2014.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and Seal of the Head of the
Institute or the Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
03–915