

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 10
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 04
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"212 – 2021 ckjdß ui 22 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'01'22
No. 2,212  –  fRiday ,  jaNuaRy 22, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th february, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th january, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1 - B 82097- 5,403 (01/2021)
N. B.–   Part i:iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,211 of 15.01.2021 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
4
Posts – vacant
POST Of REGISTRAR Of muSLIm mARRIAGES Of ThE REGISTRAR 
GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
Notice of Cancellation
MataLE diStRict
tHE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the Post of 
Registrar of Muslim Marriages in Matale district, was published by me in the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka is cancelled hereby.
Schedule  
District Divisional
Secretariat Division Post & Division for which Applications are called Gazette No. Date of 
Gazette
Matale Matale Post of Registrar of Muslim Mariages of Gongawela 
area of Matale town division 2202 2020.11.13
 K. G. dharmathilaka, 
 Registrar General.
 
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla,
on the day of 24th december, 2020.
01-581
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
STATE mINISTRy Of PRImARy hEALTh SERvICES, PANDEmICS AND 
COvID PREvENTION
Department of Social Service Development
SiGN LaNGuaGE iNtERPREtER (GRadE iii)/ VocatioNaL iNStRuctoR (GRadE iii)
aPPLicatioNS are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens to recruit to the 20 posts of Sign Language interpreters and 
8 posts of Career Guidance Officers. Applications, prepared in accordance with following specimen should be sent to 
director, department of Social Service, 2 nd floor, 2nd Stage, Sethsiripaya, Baththaramulla by registered post on or before 
19.02.2021 the words “Recruitment of Sign Language interpreter (Grade iii)/ V ocational instructor (Grade iii)” should be 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelop in which the application is enclosed. application and details could also be 
downloaded through the website of www.socialservices.gov.lk
Required qualifications to recruit for this post :-
1. Sign Language Interpreter
 •  Places of recruitment : District Secretariats of Colombo, Gampaha, Kalutara, Kandy, Matale, Trincomalee, 
Rathnapura and Kegalle, V ocational training centers for children with disabilities and main judicial 
institutes.

<!-- page 5 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
5
1.1 Recruitment under open stream
 1.1.1 Age limit :
  Should be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 30 years of age on the closing 
date of applications.
 1.1.2 Educational Qualifications:-
(a) Should have passed 06 subjects with 
credit passes for four subjects including 
Sinhala,tamil or English Language 
and Mathematics and two of any other 
subjects at the G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination at one sitting.
  and
(b) Should have passed G.c.E. (advanced 
Level) with all subjects at one sitting 
(except the General paper). (it is 
sufficient to have passed for 03 subjects 
at one sitting under the old syllabus)
 1.1.3.  Professional Qualifications :
  Should have obtained the certificate of 
one year Sign Language interpretation 
diploma course conducted by National 
institute of Education
  or
  The certificate of one year Sign Language 
interpretation diploma course conducted 
by National institute of Social development
  or
  A certificate of Sign Language 
interpretation diploma course not less than 
one year conducted by any other institutes 
registered under tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission.
 1.1.4 Working experience : Not applicable
 1.1.5 Physical Fitness :
  all the candidates should have physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of 
the island and to perform the duties of the 
post.
 1.1.6.  Other :
 (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) candidates shall be of an excellent 
character
 (iii) Shall have satisfied each and every 
way the qualifications, required for 
the recruitment to the post, on the date 
prescribed in the application calling 
notification / Gazette.
 1.1.7 Method of Recruitment
  Recruitment are made on the basis of 
results of the written and professional test
 1.1.7.1  Written Test :-
Subjects Duration Maximum 
marks
Pass 
marks
intelligence 
test 01 hour 100 40
Language
comprehension 01 hour 100 40
 1.1.7.2  Professional Test:- testing the 
practical knowledge on Sign 
Language
Subjects Duration Maximum 
marks
Pass 
marks
testing the 
practical 
knowledge on 
Sign Language
01 hour 100 40
 1.1.8 General Interview :- To check certificates 
to be certified that required qualifications 
of the post have been obtained (no marks 
shall be allocated)
 1.1.9.  Salary Scale :
  Salary code - MN 02 -2016 as per the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 
Salary Scale-Rs. 28,940-10x300-11x350-
10x560-10x660- Rs. 47,990/=
 1.1.10  Note :
  Recruitments are made by a written and 
professional test. twice the number of 
required will be called for professional 
test from the candidates who pass the 
written test and the general interview 
will also be held at the same time 
from the candidates who qualify by 
the general interview, recruitments are made 
for number of existing vacancies in order of 
merit based on the total marks scored from 
both written and professional test.

<!-- page 6 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
6
 1.1.11.  Terms of Service :-
  this post is permanent and 
pensionable. it is subjected to a 
future policy decision on scheme of 
pension made by government and required 
to contribute widows’/widowers’ and 
orphans’ Pension fund. it should be 
acquired proficiency in the prescribed 
official language within 05 years in 
accordance with the Public administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and incidental 
circulars to that.
1.2 Recruitment under limited stream
 1.2.1. Educational Qualifications :
  Should have passed 06 subjects including 
Sinhala,tamil or English Language and 
Mathematics at least with two credit 
passes at the G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination in less than two sittings.
 1.2.2 Professional Qualifications :
  Should have obtained the certificate of 
one year Sign Language interpretation 
diploma course conducted by National 
institute of Education
  or
  The certificate of one year Sign 
Language interpretation diploma course 
conducted by National institute of Social 
development
  or
  A certificate of Sign Language 
interpretation diploma course not less 
than one year conducted by any other 
institutes registered under tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission.
 1.2.3 experience :
  Should have completed an active and 
satisfactory service not less than 05 
years in post of attendant/Matron of the 
department of Social Services
 1.2.4 Physical Fitness :
  all the candidates should have physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of 
the island and to perform the duties of the 
post.
 1.2.5 Other :
 (i) Should have been confirmed in the 
appointment
 (ii) Should have completed an active 
and satisfactory service within 
immediately preceding five (05) 
years to the date of considered.
 (iii) Should have satisfied each and every 
way the qualifications prescribed for 
recruitment to the post as at the date 
mentioned in the application calling 
notification / Gazette.
 1.2.6 Age : not applicable
 1.2.7 Method of Recruitment :
  Recruitment are made by the written and 
professional test 
  1.2.7.1 Written Test :-
Subjects Duration Maximum 
marks
Pass 
marks
intelligence 
test 01 hour 100 40
Language
comprehension 01 hour 100 40
 1.1.7.2 Professional Test:- Testing the 
practical knowledge on Sign 
Language
Subject Duration Maximum 
marks
Pass 
marks
testing the 
practical 
knowledge on 
Sign Language
01 hour 100 40
 1.2.8 General Interview:- To check certificates 
to be certified that required qualifications 
of the post have been obtained (no marks 
shall be allocated)
 1.2.9 Note :
  Recruitments are made by a written and 
professional test. twice the number of 
required will be called for professional 
test from the candidates who pass the 
written test and the general interview will 
also be held at the same time. from the 
candidates who qualify by the general 
interview, recruitments are made for 
number of existing vacancies in order 

<!-- page 7 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
7
of merit based on the total marks scored 
from both written and professional test.
 1.2.10 Terms of Service :
  this post is permanent and pensionable. it 
is subjected to a future policy decision on 
scheme of pension made by government 
and required to contribute widows’/
widowers’ and orphans’ Pension fund. 
It should be acquired proficiency in the 
prescribed official language within 05 
years in accordance with the Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 and 
incidental circulars to that.
02. V ocational instructor (agriculture, food technology, 
Mechanics, computer, dancing and Music, cement works)
2.1. Age limit :
 Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age on the closing date of 
applications.
2.2. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Educational Qualifications for post of 
V ocational instructor (food technology)
 Should have passed 06 subjects with credit 
passes for four subjects includingSinhala or 
tamil Language and Mathematics and two 
of any other subjects at the G.c.E. (ordinary 
Level) Examination at one sitting.
(b) Educational Qualifications for post 
of V ocational instructor (agriculture, 
Mechanics, computer, dancing and Music, 
cement works)
 (i) Should have passed 06 subjects 
with credit passes for four subjects 
including Sinhala or tamil Language 
and Mathematics and two of any 
other subjects at the G.c.E. (ordinary 
Level) Examination at one sitting.
  and
 (ii) Should have passed G.c.E. 
(advanced Level) all subjects in any 
stream (except the General paper) and 
should have achieved the required 
level of achievement to pursue a 
tertiary education course
2.3. Professional Qualifications :
 Should have obtained a certificate for a course of 
two years or more on relevant profession from 
ceylon technical college or ceylon German 
technical training institute
 or
 Should have obtained a certificate for a course 
of two years or more from department of Small 
industries or the department of textile industries
 or
 Should have obtained a certificate for a course 
of two years or more from department of Social 
Services or National youth Service council or its 
affiliated Institutes
 or
 Should have obtained a certificate for a course of 
two years or more on relevant profession from 
V ocational training Authority or its affiliated 
institutes
 or
 Should have successfully followed and 
obtained the certificate for a technical course 
recognized by tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission as a course categorized under 
National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) level 
05 or a course recommended by that commission 
as an equivalent to that level
2.4. experience.– Not applicable
2.5. Physical Fitness :
 all the candidates should have physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of the 
island and to perform the duties of the post.
2.6.Other :
 (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) candidates shall be of an excellent 
character
 (iii) Shall have satisfied each and every way 
the qualifications mentioned from 4.1 to 
4.6 as required for recruitment to the post, 
to the date prescribed in the application 
calling notification / Gazette
 
2.7 Method of Recruitment :
 Recruitments are made on the result of written 
and professional test. the written test will be held 
first. Twice the number of required will be called 
for interview from the candidates who score high 
marks in the written test according to the order 

<!-- page 8 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
8
of merit. only the candidates who get through the general interview will be forwarded for professional test. the 
number equal to the number of vacancies will be selected for the training course from the candidates who also get 
through from the professional test according to the total aggregated marks obtained from written and professional 
test in order of merit. Those who are selected, should obtain a certificate after successfully completion 3 month 
training course on teaching methods. Only the candidates who obtain that certificate will be recruited for the post.
 2.7.1. Written test :
Subjects Duration Maximum marks Pass marks
intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
comprehension 01 hour 100 40
2.8.Salary Scale :
 Salary code-Mt-01 -2016 as per the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 Salary Scale - Rs.29,840-
10x300-11x350-10x560-10x660- Rs. 48,890/=
2.9.Terms of service :
 this post is permanent and pensionable. it is subjected to a future policy decision on scheme of pension made 
by government and required to contribute widows’/widowers’ and orphans’ Pension fund. it should be acquired 
proficiency in the prescribed official language within 05 years in accordance with the Public Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and incidental circulars to that.
Note
• Written test will be held in Colombo by an Institution decided by Social Services Director
• Only the candidates who qualified in above said qualifications should apply for this posts and recruited candidates 
are eligible to apply for annual transfers only after five years of compulsory service in the Institution which have 
relevant vacancies.
 chandana ranaweeraarachchi,
 Social Service director.
department of Social Services,
2
nd floor, 2nd Stage,
Sethsiripaya,
Baththaramulla.
15th january, 2021
application for recruitment to the poSt of .......................................
Language Medium
01. Name with initials :  ...........................................................................................................................................................
02. Names denoted by initials :  ...............................................................................................................................................
03. address : ............................................................................................................................................................................
04. telephone Number :  ..........................................................................................................................................................
05. Nic Number :  ...................................................................................................................................................................
06. date of Birth : ....................................................................................................................................................................
07. age as at closing date of application :
 y ears:- ................................  Months :- ................................   days :- ................................ 
08. Marital status ......................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 9 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
9
09. Sex :-  ................................................................................................................................................................................
10. Educational Qualifications :-
 I.  G.C.E.(Ordinary Level)
   y ear :- ................................   index Number :- ................................ 
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
Mathematics
Sinhala/tamil/English
 II.  G.C.E. (Advanced Level)
   y ear :- ................................   index Number :- ................................ 
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
11. Professional and other qualifications :
Name of the course Institution Course duration
12. experience :
 ............................................................................................................................................................................................ 
............................................................................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................................................................................................................
 i hereby certify that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge 
and belief.
 .........................................,
 Signature of applicant.
01-628
–––––––––––––––––––––––
POST Of REGISTRAR Of mARRIAGE, bIRTh AND DEATh Of ThE REGISTRAR 
GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
Notice of Cancellation
PoLoNNaRuWa  diStRict
tHE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the Post of 
Registrar of Birth and deaths and Marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar/additional Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/
General) in Polonnaruwa district which was published by  me in the Part i(iia) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 2202 dated 13.11.2020 is cancelled hereby. 

<!-- page 10 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
10
District Divisional
Secretariat Division Post & Division for which Application are called
Polonnaruwa dimbulagala Post of Births and deaths Registrar of Egodapattuwa North division and Post of 
Marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar of thamankaduwa Palatha division
 K. G. dharmathilaka, 
 Registrar General.
 
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla,
10th january, 2021.
01-525
mINISTRy Of PubLIC SERvICES, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Date of Appointment to Grade I of 
Management Service Officers’ Service - 2015(II)2021
1.0 it is hereby notified that an efficiency bar examination for officers in Class I of the Management Services Officers’ 
Service will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations in the month of may 2021 as per the provisions of 
Section 8 and Section 15 of the Management Services Officers’ Service Minute (Interim provisions) published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013 and annex 06.
2.0  (i)  Officers who have earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory service of 
five years after promotion to Grade I before the implementation of this service minute shall be exempted 
from the requirement of passing the efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade I under this service 
minute.
 (ii)  A period of concession of five years from the effective date of this service minute shall be given to the 
officers, who have not earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory period of 
five years from the date of promotion to Grade I, even though they have been promoted to Grade I before 
the implementation of this Service Minute, to pass the relevant efficiency bar examination prescribed for 
Grade i under this Service Minute.
3.0 This examination for officers in Grade I of Management Services Officers’ Service will be held in Colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Matara, jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura 
and Killinochchi. the relevant towns and town numbers are given below. the commissioner General of Examinations 
reserves the right to cancel a centre due to insufficient number of applicants or other reason and decide the centre according 
to the second preference of the applicants at his discretion. If a sufficient number of candidates have not applied to have 
examination centers in all the proposed towns or in the majority of towns, the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
make arrangements to conduct the examination only in colombo. the relevant section of the application shall be completed 
according to the table in which towns and town numbers are indicated. it will not be allowed to change the town applied for 
subsequently.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 11 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
11
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
4.0 (i) this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and the applicants 
shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) the rules and regulations for applicants have been 
separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates 
shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for violation of 
these rules and regulations.
5.0 Qualifications.– Officers who have been appointed to 
Grade I of Management Services Officers’ Service shall be 
qualified to sit for this examination.
Note - this examination shall be passed within 05 years 
from the date of promotion to Grade i. Provisions for 
Provincial Management Services Officers’ Service 
shall be issued by the relevant Provincial Public Service 
commissions and provisions shall be issued by the 
relevant institutions for other institutions concurrently 
to this Gazette Notification .In order to identify the 
applications of the officers in each Provincial Public 
Service and other institutions conveniently, code 
number should be used. Accordingly, for the officers 
in combined service code number is 10. this 
number should be entered in the upper right side of 
the application where you have to mention the service 
you belong to.
 (The responsibility is not taken for the issues caused 
by the Non submission of the correct number)
6.0. the application for this examination should be in the 
form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants 
should prepare the applications themselves according to the 
specimen. applications prepared thus should be sent by the 
registered post through the respective Heads of departments 
to reach the
Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Institution Examination Organization branch,
Department of Examinations,
PO.1503,
Colombo
on or before 22
nd of february 2021. the name of the 
examination should be indicated in the top left hand corner 
of the envelop of the application which is forwarded to 
the commissioner General of Examinations . applications 
received after the closing date and applications in which the 
relevant details have not been furnished shall be rejected.
7.0 (i)  Identity of Candidates: candidates shall 
be required to prove their identity at the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. for this 
purpose, any of the following documents shall 
be accepted.
 (i) the National identity card
 (ii) a valid passport
 (iii) a valid driving license
  candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering face and ears enabling to 
verify the identity. those who refuse to verify 
their identity as such shall not be permitted to 
enter the examination hall. further, candidates 
should remain with their face and ears 
uncovered until they leave the examination 
hall enabling the examination supervisors to 
confirm their identity.
 (ii)  Penalty for furnishing false information - the 
applicant should be very careful to include the 
correct particulars in the application. if it is 
found that any applicant is not eligible according 
to the rules and regulations of this examination 
his/her candidature can be cancelled at any time 
before, during or after the examination.

<!-- page 12 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
12
8.0 (i) Applications.– applications should be prepared 
in a paper of a4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 
to 6.0 appears on the first page and the other paragraphs 
on the other pages. the application could be typewritten 
but should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's 
own handwriting. application should strictly conform to 
the specimen appended and candidates are advised as not to 
send more than one application or photocopies. applications 
that do not comply with the specimen and that have not 
been perfected properly shall be rejected without notice. 
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on 
the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala 
and tamil application forms. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/her self complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the completed application form.
(ii) the candidates appearing for the examination for 
the first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination or 
for more than one subject and Rs. 250/= for only one subject 
should be paid at any post office/ sub post office island-wide 
or any Divisional or District Secretariat office to be credited 
to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations. The receipt obtained thus should be affixed 
to the relevant cage of the applications form. it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. further, 
stamps or money orders are not accepted for examination 
fees. 
 
9.0. (i) all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees and forwarded their applications on 
or before the prescribed date will be allowed to sit the 
competitive examination, by the commissioner General 
of Examinations, on the presumption that only those who 
possess qualifications as indicated in the Gazette Notification 
have forwarded their applications. A notification will be 
published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are 
issued to the candidates by the department of Examinations. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such advertisement, steps should be taken to inquire 
from the institution Examination organization Branch of 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in 
the advertisement. you are informed to inquire from the 
department of Examinations, mentioning the name of the 
examination, full name of the applicant, address and the Nic 
number of the applicant. it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request to the department 
of Examinations through fax indicating the above details and 
a fax number for sending a copy of the admission. it would 
be advisable to keep a copy of the application and a copy of 
the receipt relevant to payment of examination fee in hand, 
if any while making the inquiry.
Note: issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
does not necessarily mean that the applicant has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination.
(ii) applicant should get their signature on the admission 
card attested in advance
(iii) applicant should surrender the attested admission 
card to the supervisor of the examination hall on the first day 
of the examination.
10.0. the Heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner-General of Examinations to enable 
them to appear for the examination. No traveling expenses 
will be paid.
11.0. the written test shall be held in Sinhala, tamil & 
English medium. The officers may answer three question 
papers either in the language medium in which they sat for 
the entry examination to the service or in one of the official 
languages. candidates who entered the service without a 
competitive examination may answer three question papers in 
their medium of education or in one of the official languages. 
the language medium of examination, mentioned originally 
in the application, cannot be changed subsequently.
12.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject at 
different occasions at their discretion. However they should 
score at least 40% of the total marks for each subject, for a 
pass. (Refer Annex 06 of the Management Services Officers’ 
Service Minute)
13.0. department of Examinations shall release the results 
of the examination to the director General of combined 
Services, Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils 
and Local Government. Names of the applicants who have 
passed the examination shall be published on the web site 
of the Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and 
Local Government.
14.0. Examination Procedure.– applicants should sit 
for a written examination that will consist of the following 
subjects.

<!-- page 13 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
13
Subject Marks Duration Subject No. Cut off marks
1 Establishment Procedure and Procedural Rules 100 01 1/2 hours 01 40
2 Public finance management 100 01 1/2 hours 02 40
3 current trends 100 01 hours 03 40
 14.1  establishment Procedure and Procedural Rules :
  This paper shall consist of two parts and one shall consist of the questions to test the proficiency of the experience 
gained on the knowledge of fundamentals of office systems, their importance, written communication, 
documentation and compiling formats and office activities. The other part shall consist of questions to test the 
knowledge on practical knowledge on matters contained in V olume i and ii of the Establishments code and 
V olume i of the Procedural Rules of Public Service commission.
Part i - this is a question paper consisting of multiple choice questions. duration is 30 minutes. (25 Marks)
Part ii - this is a question paper consisting of semi structured essay type questions. three questions out of 
four shall be answered. duration is 60 minutes. (75 marks)
 14.2  Public finance management :
  It is expected to test the Candidates’ knowledge on the subjects in government departments, offices and 
ministries such as financial control, custody of public money, revenue and payment, budget estimates, 
supply and services (basic knowledge on board of survey and store keeping, financial regulations and auditing 
and basic banking practice)
Part i - this is a question paper consisting of multiple choice questions. duration is 30 minutes. (25 Marks)
Part ii - this is a question paper consisting of semi structured essay type questions. three questions out of four 
shall be answered. duration is 60 minutes. (75 marks)
 14.3  Current trends :
  this paper shall consist of a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge on current, local and international 
events and a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge on new trends on office management, service 
delivery of public sector and good governance. this question paper shall consist of multiple choice questions 
and short answer type questions. (all the questions shall be answered)
15.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services shall be final in any matter not provided 
for in this notification.
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 S. alokabandara,
 director General of combined Services.
Ministry of Public Services, 
Provincial councils and Local Government, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
07th of january, 2021.

<!-- page 14 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
14
(For Office use only)
Specimen Application form 
EFFICIENCy BAR ExAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE I OF MANAGEMENT SERVICE OFFICERS' 
SERVicE - 2015(ii) 2021
(Only the officers in Grade I of Management Service Officers' Service which belongs to the combined Service are 
qualified to apply as per this Examination Notification)
  Town Town No.  the service to which you belong 
 1.   (Please refer the note of para 5.0 of the Gazette
 2.   Notification carefully before filling this section)
 (indicate the town in which you intend to sit the  Language medium of examination  :
 examination according to your preference as per  
 Section 3.0 of the Gazette notification) (This  Sinhala - 2
 cannot be altered subsequently)  tamil - 3
    English - 4
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
     
    
1.0. 1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (e. g. : HERatH  MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa   GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (e.g. : GuNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0   Name and address of the service station :
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/institution (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3.0   Gender : 
  female - 1
   Male - 0  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.0 N.i.c. No. :
5.0 Mobile Number :
6.0  Subject/subjects you are offering :
Subject Subject No.
7.0 Post held at present :
 7.1 Post  :––––––––––––.
 7.2 appointment letter Number  :––––––––––––.
 7.3 Date of appointment to Grade I of Management Service officers service  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
15
8.0 8.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?  
:––––––––––––.
 8.2 if not, examination fee paid :––––––––––––.
 8.3 Post Office/Sub Post Office or any Divisional/
District Secretariat Office :––––––––––––.
 8.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
 8.5 date :–– ––––––––––.
One edge of the receipt should be affixed so as not to be 
detached
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.)
9.0 declaration of the applicant :
i declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the 
examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. .................... to the post office/sub post office 
island-wide or any Divisional/District Secretariat office 
................ on ........................... is affixed above. I agree to 
abide by the decisions made by the commissioner General 
of examinations on conducting of the examination and all 
the provisions of the Examination act. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date  :––––––––––––.
Note.– candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of his/her respective Head of department 
or an officer assigned to sign on behalf of him. 
Attestation of Signature
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................................
. who is an employee of my office and who is personally 
known to me placed his/her signature in my presence on   
....................... Since  he/she is sitting for the examination 
for the first time it is advisable to exempt him/her from the 
examination fee/has paid the examination fee and the receipt 
has been affixed. 
 ––––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp 
 of the person attesting. 
Name  :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
date  :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
i, certify that, 
 (i) the information furnished above were verified 
and ; 
 (ii) The officer belongs to the Combined Service, 
 (iii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the 
examination previously;
 (iv) The officer has appeared for the examination 
previously and officer has affixed the receipt of 
the fees for the relevant examination. 
 (v) Officer is eligible to appear for this examination. 
*(Delete inapplicable words)
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the department.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date  :––––––––––––.
01 -489
–––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh 
dEPaRtMENtaL   ExaMiNatioN   foR   
PRELiMiNaRy   GRadE MEdicaL   
officERS   aNd   dENtaL   
SuRGEoNS – SEPtEMBER 2020
it is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination 
should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade 
before promotion to Grade ii and dental Surgeons before 
confirmation in the Service during a period of two years from 
the date of appointment to such post as per Section 08 of the 
Medical Service Minute of Sri Lanka in the Health Services 
published in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 11.10.2014, 
will be held on 28.02.2021 in Sinhala, tamil and English 
medium. the venue and the time of the examination will be 
notified along with the Admission Card.

<!-- page 16 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
16
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary 
Grade who have not compl eted the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service 
can apply for this examination. Medical Officers who have 
been appointed to a post in the administrative Grade or 
Specialist Grade previously without having completed this 
examination also can apply for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– applications that should be 
prepared by the candidates as per specimen shown at the 
end of this circular should be forwarded to the director 
(Examinations), Ministry of Health “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385,                                                                                                                         
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 
10, on or before 29.01.2021 through their Heads of 
institutions. the Head of institution should certify the 
accuracy of contents in each application. a self-addressed 
envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps 
to the value of Rs. 45.00 should be sent along with the 
application. (Candidates can write their official or private 
address). applications which are received late, incomplete 
or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an 
A4 paper based on the specimen form of the 
application so as to recommended from 01 to 04(e) 
on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the 
second page. Applications which do not conform 
to above will be rejected any information. 
04. examination fees :
 (i)  Candidates who sit the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. However, in 
every subsequent sitting they should affix stamps 
to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps 
cage provided for in the application and cancel 
same by placing their signature and the date.
 (ii)  the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer 
for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the examination:
 (i)  candidates whose applications have been 
accepted will be issued with admission cards. 
they should duly complete and submit same to the 
Supervisor at the Examination centre. otherwise 
they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
 (ii)  candidates should prove their identity to the 
Supervisor at the examination hall. for this 
purpose one of the following documents will be 
accepted :
 (a)  National identity card ;
 (b)  a formal identity card issued by the Ministry 
of Health or a relevant institution ;
 (c)  Valid driving License ;
 (d)  Valid Passport.
 (iii) if you did not receive your admission card 
due to any unavoidable reason you can trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
through the web site ; if you were able to trace 
your examination centre and the index number 
as mentioned above you are permitted to be 
presented at the examination centre in the web 
site together with a letter attesting your signature 
by your immediate superior officer and sit the 
examination by establishment of your identity. 
the applicants who have received the admission 
card should certify their signature and should be 
bought. the applicants who have obtained the 
certification on their signature will not be entitled 
to face the examination. 
  (Web site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the examination. – the examination 
consists of four parts that is three written essay type question 
papers and a Sinhala/t amil oral test. Each part carries 100 
marks. a minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each 
part to pass the examination and this examination could be 
completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the 
examination in several sittings. At the first attempt officer 
should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the examination :
 07.1  Written examination :
 07.1.1  establishments Code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five 
(05) out of eight (08) questions.  

<!-- page 17 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
17
  Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the department of 
Health Services in Health Ministry ;
 (ii)  orders and Regulations of the Public 
Service commission ;
 (iii) Establishments code :
 Part i - chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, ix, xii, 
xiii, xiV , xV , xVi, xVii, 
xViii, xxiii, xxiV , xxV , 
xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxx, 
xxxi, xxxii
 Part ii - chapters xLVii and xLViii ;
 7.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and 
Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  duration 1 1/2 hours. total marks 100. 
Should answers four (04) questions out of 
seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  Health Manual :
 (i) administration of Hospital and Public 
Health, 
 (ii) Management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) Management of drugs.
 7.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 
questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of Stores accounts of the 
department of Health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of finance in the Manual of 
the department of Health Services ;
 (iii) financial Regulations relating to 
the daily routine duties of a Medical 
Officer of Health -  
chapter i - f . R. 1, 2, 78.
chapter ii - f . R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 
103, 104, 105, 106, 
107, 108, 109, 110, 
113, 115, 118, 119.
chapter iii - f . R. 124, 125, 126, 
127, 128, 131, 133, 
134, 135, 136, 137, 
138, 139, 140, 142, 
143, 151, 152, 154, 
155, 156, 189.
chapter V - f . R. 200, 201, 215, 
225, 238, 245, 255, 
257, 260.
chapter Vi - f . R. 380, 381, 382, 
383, 384, 385, 386, 
388, 389, 390, 391, 
392, 393 394.
chapter Vii - f . R. 488, 493.
chapter xiii - f . R. 715, 716, 756, 
757, 758.
Procurement Guideline : 
chapter 1 - all Sections
chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 
2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 
3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 
3.7, 3.8, 3.9.  
 
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : this oral test 
is conducted by the staff officers of the 
Departmental to measure the proficiency in 
Sinhala/tamil. ability of the Sinhala medium 
officers to communicate in Tamil medium 
and the ability of the Tamil medium officers 
to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding 
the matters that arise while discharging their 
normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes. 
08. To follow the regulations related to examination 
Procedure.- candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or 
from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate 
should attempt to look at the script of another candidate and 
should not help any candidate either help another candidate 
or obtain help from another candidate or person. further 
mobile phones and the similar electronic equipments should 
not be used. any candidate who disregards this rule is liable 
to punishment. 
09. Please bring the contents of this circular to the 
notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
compaign/institution. the information is also available in 
the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk

<!-- page 18 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
18
N.B.– In case of any inconsistency between the texts Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala
language shall prevail.
 dr. S. h. munaSinghe,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health. 
Ministry of Health,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 
385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
15th january, 2021.
For Office Use Only   
Specimen form of Application             
dEPaRtMENtaL  ExaMiNatioN  foR  PRELiMiNaRy  GRadE
MEdicaL  officERS  aNd  dENtaL  SuRGEoNS - SEPtEMBER, 2020
01. (a)  (i)  full Name of the applicant (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
(ii)  full Name of the applicant (in English capitals Block Letters) :
(iii) Name with initials (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
(iv) Name with initials (in English Block Letters) :
(b) (i) d esignation (Please mark () in relevant cage) :
(i) Medical Officer (ii) Dental Surgeon
(ii)  date of internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii)  date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade ii :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “ x” against the
subjects not offered) :
 admin. of Hospitals and dispensaries Establishments code  accounts
 Sinhala Viva Voce tamil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination  (Mark ‘’ in relevant cage)
Sinhala :                     English :                       tamil :
04. (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
19
  (ii) this institution belongs to :  Line Ministry
       Provincial council
 (b)   (i) if Provincial council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) district of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 (c) Mobile telephone No. :
 (d) National identity card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (if any or 
several examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due 
to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers 
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the director General of 
Health Services).
  colombo Kandana Hambantota ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa jaffna trincomalee
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelopes in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 45.00 has 
been attached to the application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
 (g)  (i)  Postal address to post the admission card (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Postal address to post the admission card (in English) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and, I need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of                  
Rs. ………… since I repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and 
not used.
 (ii)  i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Ministry of Health for the conduct of this 
Examination and if, i was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination, i agree with 
whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

  I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2021
20
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File : 
i certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the applicant 
in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this application is 
attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
date :–––––––––––.
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……….................. serves as a ................................... in this institution, and the 
particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal file, and he/
she sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature in 
my presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of institution.
 (Rubber Stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
09.  Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………...........................…… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/
Campaign* and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars 
available in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of decentralized unit/
 Specialized campaign (frank/Rubber Stamp).
date :––––––––––––.
(* - Delete inapplicable words)
01–702
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.