

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1888$42 - 2014 fkdjeïn¾ ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'11'14
No. 1888/42  -  FRIDAY ,  NOVEMBER  14,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
WESTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
I, Udaya Prabhath Gammanpila, Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Minor Irrigation, Industries, Environment,
Arts and Cultural Affairs of the Western Province hereby notify that the Minor Irrigation Statute No. 03 of 2014 of Western
Province Provincial Council described in the statute below has been passed by the Western Province Provincial Council on
19th of August 2014 and has been assented by the Hon. Governor of the Western Province on 21st October, 2014.
U
DAYA PRABHATH GAMMANPILA,
Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development,
Minor Irrigation, Industries, Environment, Arts and
Cultural Affairs of the Western Province.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Agrarian Development,
Minor Irrigation, Industries, Environment, Arts and
Cultural Affairs of the Western Province Provincial Council.
Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
13th November 2014.
Minor Irrigation Statute of the Western Province No. 03 of 2014
A STATUTE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW RELATING TO CONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF MINOR IRRIGATION WORK INCLUDING PLANNING, DESIGNING, IMPLEMENTATION OF ALL
MINOR IRRIGATION WORK IN THE WESTERN PROVINCE OTHER THAN IRRIGATION SCHEMES RELA TING TO RIVERS
RUNNING THROUGH MORE THAN ONE PROVINCE OR INTERPROVINCIAL IRRIGATION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
SCHEMES, AND ALLOCATE PROVISIONS FOR MATTERS RELATED OR CONSEQUENTIAL THERETO.
The Provisions of this statute are inconsistent with the Irrigation Ordinance (Chapter 453).
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Western Province as follows :-
3 — PG  2246

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014
2A
1. This statute may be cited as the Minor Irrigation Statute of the Western Province No. 03 of 2014
and shall come into force from the date of receipt of assent of the Governor.
PART  I
ESTABLISHMENT OF IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT OF THE WESTERN PROVINCE AND ITS COMPOSITION
2. A department in the name of Western Provincial Department of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to
as department) shall hereby be established.
3. (1) The functions of administration and implementation of the department shall be assigned to
the Western Provincial Director of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to as Director). Provincial Director of
Irrigation shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the department and will be appointed by the Governor.
(2) The Governor shall appoint an officer of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service as the Provincial
Director.
(3) The director may have the power of implementation of the provisions of the statute under the
supervision of Secretary in charge of the subject of Provincial Irrigation.
4. (1) For the purpose of this statute there may be appointed from time to time prescribed number
of Civil Engineers to act as District Irrigation Engineers.
(2) Any person so appointed may exercise, perform and discharge any power, duty or function
expressly conferred or imposed upon the District Irrigation Engineer and may subject to the directions and
supervision of the Director or exercise, perform and discharge any power, duty or function conferred or
imposed on the District Irrigation Engineer.
PART  II
P
OWER AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR
5. (1) The Director shall have the following powers :
(a) To plan, design, construct, implement and supervise all minor irrigation work.
(b) To develop, rehabilitate and maintain minor irrigation works within the Province.
(c) Take measure to control floods and brine water inflow related to minor irrigation of the
province.
(d) Taking relevant steps to raise awareness and promote, encourage about the subject of
irrigation in terms of protection and maintenance of the minor irrigation schemes within
the province.
(e) Providing knowledge to farmer organizations with regard to their duty and function under
this statute.
(f) Selection of farmer organizations required to accomplish tasks related to this minor irrigation,
implementation of programmes and taking measures to activate farmer organizations when
they have become inactive.
(g) Coordinating with relevant institutions and authorities to solve problems encountered in
programmes implemented to execute minor irrigation functions.
Short title and
date of coming
into force.
Establishment of
Provincial
Irrigation
Department.
Provincial
Irrigation
Director.
Appointment of
District
Irrigation
Engineers.
Provincial
Director’s
Powers and
functions.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014
(2) All powes assigned to the Director by whatever section of this statute shall subject to the
following limits. That is, the Director shall not sell, let on lease or utilize or allow to be utilized in any
commercial aim or assigning a price with the intent of some commercial aim for any natural resource related
to minor irrigation.
6. (1) A person authorized by the Director, subsequent to following the orders prescribed by the
Director shall have power to enter on requirement, certain premises connected or adjacent to a minor
irrigation scheme or providing direct access to such, at any time.
(2) On an occasion where access to such premises had unjustly been rejected and the authorized
person has taken action in conformity with the prescribed order and followed the said order to the satisfaction
of the Director, the Director may obtain an order from the Magistrate Court delegating permission or
authority to have access to the said minor irrigation scheme.
7. In conformity with the criteria specified by the Director, participation of Government or Non-
governmental voluntary organizations may be encouraged in maintenance and construction of minor
irrigation work.
PART  III
O
FFENCES AND PENALTIES
Any person who :
8. (a) Blocks up, obstructs, illegally encroaches upon, damaging or caused to be blocked up,
obstructed, encroached upon or damaged certain irrigation canal, water course, bund,
bank, dam, reservation, irrigation reserve or any other such irrigation work ;
(b) Will fully or maliciously causes to waste in any manner, the water conserved in any minor
irrigation work ;
(c) Discharges, allows the flow of, releases, deposits any waste or dirty matter or cause to be
discharged, allowed the flow of, released or deposited any such waste or dirty matter to a
certain minor irrigation ;
(d) Engages in any cultivation, removal of sand, soil or any other matter or causes such to be
carried out in an area allocated for certain minor irrigation scheme or in reservation for
minor irrigation scheme ;
(e) Being the State Security Forces, for the purpose of transportation, steers a mechanically
propelled vessel in certain irrigation scheme other than for the purpose of providing
security ;
(f) Engages in any commercial activity at a certain minor irrigation scheme or utilizes such
irrigation scheme for any illegal activity ;
(g) Damages such structure or part of such structure of an irrigation scheme or part of it, or
causes damage to such, or removes such structure or part of it, or causes such removal ;
without the prior permission of the Director, shall be an offender for an offence stipulated
under this statute.
Power of access
to minor
irrigation.
Participation of
other
organizations.
Block up,
obstructing or
illegal
encroachement
of minor
irrigation
schemes to be
offences.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014
4A
9. (1) Where the Director observes that certain person engages in an activity by contravening to
provisions of Section 08, he shall immediately issue a written order to be served to the offender ordering
him to prevent from prolonged carrying out of the act or acts specifically stated in that Section. Measures
to be taken by that person in order to minimize damage should specifically be stated in the said order.
(2) For the task of confirming whether action is being taken as per the order issued by the Director
under Sub-section (1) stated above, if such order was issued in relation to any irrigation channel, canal,
water course, bund, bank, embankment, dam or irrigation reserve located within certain authorized officer’s
area of authority, such authorized officer is bound to execute the above order.
(3) A final order shall be issued by the Director indicating that the person specifically stated in the
above Section (1) failed to take steps stated specifically in the order to minimize faulty results and continue
to proceed with the said specified faulty acts, and the matters stated therein shall be evidence.
(4) Every person failing to comply to act as per an order issued under the above Sub-section (1)
commits an offence under this statute and upon conviction, shall subject to a penalty not exceeding One
Hundred Thousand Rupees or imprisonment for a period not exceeding  one year or both to the penalty
and imprisonment.
(5) An authorized officer may take any person committing an offence formulated or regulated
under this statute into custody without a warrant at an area where certain minor irrigation scheme exists
and to present such offender before a Magistrate of said Jurisdiction.
(6) Where an offence has been committed under this statute or regulation formulated under it,
confiscation of any commodity utilized to commit the said offence and detaining at a place specified by the
Magistrate, is possible.
PART  IV
G
ENERAL PROVISIONS
10. (1) Farmer organizations shall function as per the instructions provided by the Director to a
sufficient level for such organizations to function.
(2) Where the Director finds it not possible to accomplish his duties due to defaulting the functions
to be performed under this statute by farmer organizations, on the consent of the General of Agrarian
Services Department and in compliance to that Act, he should get the affairs to be accomplished.
11. (1) It is legal to order a person who is engaged in obstructing or illegally encroaching a canal,
irrigation channel or water course or damaging ; or carries out an action causing possible damage to such ;
by a written notice served to him, to remove or stop the said obstruction or illegal encroachment within a
time period specified in the said notice.
(2) Any person receiving a notice under Sub-section (1) refuses to act in conformity to the orders
specified by the said notice during a time period specifically stated therein or defaults such orders, or in
case there exists a suspicion as to whom the said notice should be served, it is legal to take action by the
Director to immediately remove or terminate the said obstruction or illegal encroachment and enter a land
or premises required for the purpose of accomplishing that task to ensure that all necessary efforts will be
taken for the removal or termination of such activity.
(3) Officer of the Department of Irrigation nominated in writing by the Director for the said task
shall be an authorized officer to carry out the duty specified in Section 09 of this statute.
Relief steps to
be taken by the
Provincial
Director.
Court action to
be taken upon
non-conformity
to orders.
Authorized
Officers to be
considered as
Peace Officers.
Farmer
organizations to
act in
conformity to
instructions.
Obstructions to
officers.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014
PART  V
ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS
12. (1) In relation to any matters required for the implementation of provisions of the statute, the
minister can formulate regulations under Section 5, 6, 7, 11 of this statute.
(2) Every regulation formulated by the minister shall be published in the Gazette paper. Every
regulation published in the Gazette thus, shall come into force from the date of their publication or from a
later date specifically stated in the Gazette.
(3) Every regulation formulated by the minister, subsequent to their announcement in the Gazette,
shall as soon as possible be presented to the Provincial Council for approval. Any regulation failing to
obtain approval thus, shall be considered as repealed without prejudice to any such executed under that
previously.
(4) The date considered as the repealing date for the said regulation shall be made known through
a Gazette notification.
PART  VI
I
NTERPRETATIONS
13. In this statute unless the context otherwise requires :
“Governor” means the person holding the office of Governor of the Western Province
at present in accordance to the constitution.
“Minister” means the Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of Minor Irrigation
schemes.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Provincial Minister’s ministry that has been
assigned with the subject of Minor Irrigation schemes.
“Police and
Public Peace” means the same interpretation as stated in the Clause I of the 9th Schedule
to the 13th Amendment of the Constitution.
“Minor
Irrigation” means any other irrigation schemes carried out within the Western
Province except irrigation schemes relating to rivers running through
more than one province, interprovincial irrigation functions and land
development schemes.
“Minor Irrigation” means an irrigation scheme providing water to agricultural land up to 200 Acres
in extent.
“To minor Irrigation” —
(a) any tank, anicut, canal, irrigation channel, distributor water course combined to a minor
irrigation work or incidental or ancillary thereof ;
(b) any activity that combines construction or maintenance of minor irrigation work or incidental
or ancillary thereof,
Regulations may
be formulated by
the minister.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014
6A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
(c) planning, designing, construction, maintenance, renovation of and rehabilitation of
engineering work constructed to facilitate subsiding of brine water from a cultivated land
or regularizing inflow of brine water to such area or outflow there from, or protection of
such areas from floods are included.
“Minor means minor irrigation systems and natural water courses connected
Irrigation to minor irrigation activities.
Sheme”
“Pollution” means any direct or indirerct alteration of the physical, thermal,
chemical or biological radioactive properties of any part of the
environment by the discharge or the deposit of waste so as to effect
any beneficial use adversely or to cause a condition which is hazardous
or potentially hazardous to public health, safety or welfare or to animals,
birds,wild life, aquatid life or to environment.
“Water means a river, tributary, la ke or canal within the Province, formed
Course” naturally for the water to flow.
“Province” Means the Western Province.
11 - 883