

<!-- page 1 -->

1391 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
1391
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1394
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1395
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th December, 2007, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 07th December, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,528 _ 2007 ï…Ìæ´Ú 14 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .12.14
No. 1,528 – FRIDAY ,  DECEMBER 14, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
1392
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1393 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
1394
Posts - Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
Post of Driver Class II “B”
APPLICATIONS for the posts of Drivers Class II “B” in the
Department of Official Languages are invited from the Sri Lankans
who have required qualifications mentioned in this notification.
02. Applications, prepared according to the format given below
should be sent to “The Commissioner, Department of Official
Languages, “Bhasha Mandiraya” 341/7, Kotte Road, Rajagiriya, under
registered post on or before 15th January, 2008. The post applied
for should be marked as “Post of Driver” on the top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing the applications. Late applications will
not be entertained. Application should be completed in all respects.
Late applications and the applications which do not fulfil the required
qualifications will be rejected without any notice.
03. Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
04. Age Limit.– Applicants should be between 18 and 45 years of
age as at the closing date of applications. The upper age limit will not
apply to the applicants who are in the Public Service and the provincial
public service.
05. Educational qualifications/alternative qualifications.–
Applicants should have passed at least Grade Eight/Year Nine from
a school approved by the Director General of Education.
06. Professional qualifications :-
(a) Applicants should have a certificate of competence issued
by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic regarding driving
of private/hired vehicles and Station wagons less than 24
hundred weight tare. (The certificate should have been
obtained 3 years prior ot the date of recruitment (Vehicle
class : C and C1).
(b) Applicants should possess 3 years experience as a driver
(Should be supported by certificates).
(c) Applicants should have a sound knowledge of the Code
of road rules.
07. Physical Qualifications :-
(a) The minimum height should be 05 feet and 2 1/2 inches.
(b) Applicants should be physically fit and have a good eye
sight for working during day and night.
08. Salary Scale.  PL 3- 2006 (Monthly) Rs. 12,360 - 10 x 110 -
10 x 120 - 10 x 130 - 12 x 140 - Rs. 17,640.
09. Conditions of Employment :-
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointees
should  contribute to Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’
pension scheme.
(b) If the applicant selected has served under the probationary
period of three years and is a  confirmed officer in the
Public/Provincial Public Service he/she will be appointed
as an acting officer for a period of one year.
(c) Sections 10 -12 in Chapter II of the Establishment Code
will be applicable.
(d) In accordance with the Public Administration Circular
No.07/2007 all officers recruited should acquire
proficiency in other official language within a period of 5
years from the appointment in addition to the official
language through which he has entered the Public Service.
10. Method of recruitment All qualified applicants,
(i) Should sit a written test.
(ii)Applicants who score higher marks at the written test
will be called for a Competence test.
(iii) Successful applicants at the Competence test will be called
for an interview to select the qualified persons.
11. The recruitments will be made according to the Public
Administration Circular No.1101/9 of 13.10.1999.
12. Applicants who are already in the Public service should
forward their applications through the respective Heads of
Departments. A certificate to the effect that the applicant can be
released if he is selected to this post should be attached.
13. If any information mentioned in the application is found to
be false prior to selection he/she will be disqualified and if it is
detected after selection he/she will be dismissed.
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages,
“Bhasha Mandiraya”
341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
D
EPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES  POST  OF  DRIVER  CLASS  II ‘B’
01. Full Name : In Sinhala :————.
In English :————.
02. Name with initials : In Sinhala :————.
   In English :————.
03. National Identity Card Number :————.

<!-- page 5 -->

1395 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
04. Private Address : In Sinhala :————.
In English :————.
05. Official Address :————.
06. Date of Birth :————.
Age (As at the date of forwarding applications as per the Gazette
Notification)
Days :————, Months :————, Years :————.
07. Sex :————.
08. Civil Status :————.
09. Citizenship :————.
10. Medium of the Language in which the Applicant studied :—–.
11. Educational Qualifications :————.
Subjects Grade
12. Diriving Licence No., date and vehicle class issued by the
Commissioner of Motor Traffic :————.
13. Experience as a driver :————.
14. Present Employment :————.
15. Names and addresses of two referees :————.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect I am liable to
disqualification before selection and to dismissal without any
compensation if this inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
12-238
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
NATIONAL  COLLEGES  OF  EDUCATION
ADMISSIONS  TO  FOLLOW  A  PRE-SERVICE
PROFESSIONAL  COURSE  IN  TEACHER  EDUCATION
-  2008
(a) THE notification of 29.06.2007 Gazette in the section 4.3.1
amended as below :
4.3 Course No. (03) Mathematics (Sinhala)
(03) Mathematics (Tamil)
(03) Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes in the following subjects : Mathematics,
Combined Mathematics, Higher Mathematics Physics,
Chemistry, in one sitting at G.C.E (A/L) Examination held
in 2006 (Two passes in above subjects including
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics, Higher Mathematics
for Sri Pada National College of Education); and
4.3.2 Passed G.C.E (O/L) Examination in six subjects with a
pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in Science
(34).
(a) This amendment is applicable only to follow the
Mathematic Course in Sri Pada National College of
Education :
According to the section 6.3 in the 29.06.2007 gazette
notification, applicants qualified to apply for Mathematics
Course among the entitled applicants for Sri Pada National
College of Education should apply in accordance with above
mentioned amendment. Those who have applied for
Mathematics course as per the gazette notification of
29.06.2007 need not to apply again.
(b) The completed application form as in the Gazette
Notification of 29.06.2007 should be sent on or befoe
28.12.2007 by registered mail to following address.
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education)
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(c) Please note that the rules and regulations pertaining to the
application are in accordance with the 29.06.2007 Gazette
Notifications.
A
RIYARATNE   HEWAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
12-230
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL  AND TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES (NVQ LEVEL
05 AND 06) CONDUCTED AT SRI LANKA TECHNICAL
COLLEGE, OLCOTT MAWATHA, COLOMBO 10 - 2008
(SRI LANKA COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY)
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses
conducted in Sri Lanka Technical College appearing in this Gazette

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
1396
Notification. Students for admission will be selected from among the
applicants according  to the qualifications and merit, and the place
available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own
applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of  paper in accordance with the
“Specimen Application Form” given in this notification. As specified
in item 13 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs.10 stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s
usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Principal Sri Lanka Technical College,
(Sri Lanka College of Technology), Ollcot Mawatha, Colombo 10. to
reach him on or before 4th January 2008.
03. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
04. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in the
Technical college should:-
(i) be of excellent moral character;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(iii)have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission
at the time of forwarding the application.
05. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of Selection
Test, Aptitude test and/or an Interview.
06. Any documents or copies there of, should not be submitted
along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce the
necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the
interview will be deemed disqualified.
07. Subject to a maximum of Rs.450 a month a stipend of Rs.20
per day for attendance to classes will be paid to students, depending
on parental income.
A limited number of Students from low income families will be
paid a bursary of Rs.2500 per year.
08. The candidate  is held entirely responsible for the authenticity
of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that have
been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely
dealt with.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using separate
application forms.
Dr. H. L. O
BEYESEKERA ,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Application for Admission to Sri Lanka Technical College (Sri Lanka College of Technology) Academic Year – 2008
For Official  use only
(Applications must be directed to the Principal Sri Lanka Technical College, (Sri Lanka College of Technology) Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10 (Each Course applied for should be in a separate application)
01. Name of the Technical College :———.
02. Name of the Course :———.
03. Medium :———.
04. Applicants Name with Initials :———.
05. Names indicated by Initials :———.
06. Permanent Address and Contact Telephone No. :———.
07. National Identity Card No :———.
08. District:———. Electorate :———.
Gramaniladhari Division :———.
09. Date of Birth :———.
Age as at 2008.01.01 :-
Years :———.   Months :———.     Days :———.     Male/Female :———.
10.
Details of Entry Qualifications (according to the gazette notification)
Qualification Details of Certificates NVQ Level (if Name the Certificate Details of Period years
Index No. applicable) issued by the Institute experience (If any)months
01
02

<!-- page 7 -->

1397 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
11. Please State, if you have any other Additional Qualifications and Certificate in addition to the above given details ;
–––––––––––
–––––––––––
12. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L) Results
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
13. Applicant’s Declaration
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge, and I have obtianed the qualifications required
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Technical Colleges and to accept the decision of
the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as Final.
–––––––––––,
Date :———. Applicant’s Signature.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.
Admission of Students to Diploma Courses (NVQ Level 05 & 06) Conducted at Sri Lanka Technical College
(Sri Lanka College of Technology) Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10.
Code Name of Qualification Admission Qaulification
No. Course Index
Cot/Weld W elding 01 Hold one of the following NVQ Certificate through Institutional Training or
5 & 6 Full time Day Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
Two Years (i) Welding NVQ Level 03 or higher
or
(ii)Metal Fabricator Level 03 or higher
Medium or
English 02 Hold an acceptable relevant Non - NVQ Certificate after completing a
Course or service experience of one year duration or more
COT/Mech Mechatronic 01 Hold one of the following NVQ Certificate through Intitutional Training or
5 & 6
Full time Day Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
Two Years (i) Machinist NVQ Level 03 or higher
or
(ii)Electrician NVQ Level 03 or higher
or
Medium- English (iii)Radio, TV and Allied Equipment Repairer NVQ Level 03 or higher or
(iv) Tool and Die maker NVQ Level 03 or higher
or
(v) Pneumatic Technician NVQ Level 03 or higher
or
(vi) Tea Factory Machanic NVQ Level 03 or higher
02 or
Hold and acceptable relevant Non - NVQ Certificate after completing a  course or
service experience of one year duration or more
COT/IT IT 01 Hold one of the following NVQ Certificate through Institutional Training or
5 & 6 Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
Full Time (i) Computer Application Assistant NVQ Level 03 or Higher

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
1398
Day two Years or
(ii)Hardware Technician NVQ Level 03 or higher
or
Medium - English (iii)Network Technician NVQ Level 03 or higher
(iv) Graphic Designer NVQ Level 03 or higher
(v) Desktop Publisher NVQ Level 03 or higher
or
02 Hold an  acceptable  relevant Non - NVQ Certificate after completing a course or
service experience of one year  duration or more
Remarks
Those who fulfill the admission qualification should pass at the following tests:
(i) Pass in the selection test;
(ii)Pass in aptitude test;
(iii)Pass in the interview for affective skills.
Note .- Selection test will consist of Mathematics, Science and English components and exemptions may be  granted if the candidate
possesses Credit for Mathematic and passes for Science and English at the G. C. E.(O/L) Examination. Aptitude Test and the
interview will be compulsory for all the candidates.
12-245
Code Name of Qua lification Admission Qaulification
No. Course Index
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHER  EDUCATION
Career  Development  Programme
  DISTANCE  EDUCATION  MODERNIZA TION PROJECT (DEMP) FUNDED BY ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
TRAINING  PROGRAMME   LEADING  TO  GAINFUL  EMPLOYMENT  OF  YOUNG  NEEDY  G. C. E. A/L SAT  STUDENTS
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens to enroll with the above programme. The applicants are required to fulfill the
eligibility criteria stipulated under this programme and forward their applications following the specimen given below.
Since December 2003, the Ministry of Higher Education has launched the Distance Education Modernization Project (DEMP)
and a part of the project funds has been  allocated to conduct short term training programmes (3-9 months) leading to gainful  employments
of unemployed and needy G. C. E. A/L sat Students.
The Project will select trainees for the following categories of training under this scheme:
1. The tailor made, demand driven semi skilled training programmes/courses (duration of 3 to 9 months) aiming at employment
after the successful completion in Public/Private Institutions, companies and industries, etc;
2. On the Job Training programmes organized and requested by the Public and Private sector organizations and with the
agreement of the Distance Education Modernization Project.
Provision of funds and sponsorship for training:
(a) DEMP will provide an allowance to trainees selected for “On the job” training programmes to cover expenses such as
travelling, food, incidental, etc., during the training period.
(b) Course fees will be paid to selected providers of “ Demand driven training” on behalf of the trainee by the Distance
Education Modernization Project. The Project will not pay a monthly allowance to trainees under this category.
Those Applicants should fulfill the following criteria:
(i) Applicant’s family income should be less than Rs.10,000 per month. (Grama Niladhari letter certified by Divisional
Secretary should be attached);

<!-- page 9 -->

1399 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
(ii)Applicants should have sat the G. C. E. A/L Examination during 2006 or 2007 (attach copy of A/L certificate), but remain
unemployed and should be below 22 years of age on December 31, 2007.
(iii)Applicants who have been selected or pending selections to Universities, Vidyapeeta and other Public Postsecondary
institutions to follow full time or part time degrees, diploma, and certificate programme should not apply.
(iv) Trainees who are selected for either of the above training should sign a bond with the Distance Education Modernization
Project against the expenses and continuation of the respective training.
Applicants are requested to forward their applications along with necessary documents specified in the specimen application
form on or before January 31, 2008 to reach :
Project Director,
Distance Education Modernization Project (DEMP),
The Ministry of Higher Education,
1st and 2nd Floors,
No. 35/10, Nawala Road,
Narahenpita, Colombo 05.
Ministry of Higher Education
CAREER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
D ISTANCE  EDUCATION  MODERNIZA TION  PROJECT
Application for Training Programme Leading to Gainful
Employment of Young Needy G.C.E A/L Students
1. Name in full (Capital Letters) :———.
2. Permanent Address (Capital Letters) :———.
Address Line 1 :———.
Address Line 2 :———.
Address Line 3 :———.
City :———.
2. (a) District :———. 2. (b) Grama Niladhari Division :———.
3. Telephone No:———.  (if any) 4. Mobile :———.  (if any)
5. Fax :———.  (if any) 6. E-Mail :———. (if any)
7. Family Income :———.
8. G.N. Income certificate (GN Division and No.) certified by
DS (DS Division) :———.  (Y/N)
9. Temporary Address :
Address Line 1 :———.
Address Line 2 :———.
Address Line 3 :———.
City :———.
9. (a) District :———. 9. (b) Grama Niladhari Division :———.
10. Telephone :———.  (if any) 11. Mobile :———.  (if any)
12. Fax :———.  (if any) 13. E-mail :———.  (if any)
14. Date of Birth : (DD/MM/YYYY) 15. Age as at 31.12.2007 :———.
(Attach a copy of B.C)
16. Gender : (M/F) :———. 17. Marital Status : Married/Single :
18. NIC No. :———. 19. Date of Issue :- ............../.............../..................
(Annex copy) (DD/MM/YYYY)
20. Passport No. :———. 21. Date of Expiry :- ............../.............../..................
(Annex copy) :———. (DD/MM/YYYY)
22. Nationality :———. 23. Race :———.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
1400
24. Preferred Categories of Employment :———.
(Only 5 categories can be selected, Please specify the preference Level (1to 5) :———.
Category Sub Category (Please Specify) Pref.
Accountancy Eg. Accounts clerk, Trainee etc.
Agriculture and livestock
Nursing
Automotive Mechanics
Computer and Information Tech. Data Entry operator IT clerk etc.
Electrical and Electronics
Fisheries and Aquaculture
Food and Beverages
Gem and Jewellery
Welding, Aluminium Fabricating, Spray Painting
Marine and shipping
Metal and Light Eng.
Quantity Surveyor
Printing and Packaging
Rubber Plastics and Leather Related
Textile and Garment
Beauty Culture
Secretarial
Food Processing and Packaging
Tourism and Hotel Industry Eg. Receptionist, Cookery, Bakery etc.
Other
25. Indicate in which districts you would like to undergo Training :———.
(List 03 Districts in order of priority)
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
26. Educational Qualifications :———.
(Indicate your best grading only for Mathematics and English)
G. C. E. (O/L) Subject Grades
Year :———. Mathematics :———. ………………………………
English Language :———. ………………………………
(Attach copy of O/L certificate)
G. C. E. (A/L)  (Attach copy of A/L certificates)
Stream : Commerce/Mathematics/Science/Arts/(Pls. Highlight)
Subject Grades
Year 20 .... First sitting 1. ………………………… …………………………
2. ………………………… …………………………
3. ………………………… …………………………
4. ………………………… …………………………

<!-- page 11 -->

1401 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
Year 20 ..... Second sitting 1. ………………………… …………………………
2. ………………………… …………………………
3. ………………………… …………………………
4. ………………………… …………………………
Year 20.... Third sitting 1. ………………………… …………………………
2. ………………………… …………………………
3. ………………………… …………………………
4. ………………………… …………………………
27. Training Programmes and courses attended after completing GCE A/L :
Name of Institution Course Title Year Duration Grade Awarded
………………………… ………………… ……………… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ……………… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ……………… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ……………… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ……………… ……………… …………………
28. Additional Information :
Language Proficiency Spoken Reading Writing
English ……………… ……………… ………………
Sinhala ……………… ……………… ………………
Tamil ……………… ……………… ………………
Other ……………… ……………… ………………
(Please specify - Excellent, V ery Good, Good, Fluent, Fair, Poor)
29. Employment History (If relevant)
Employer Designation Duration period EPF No. Job Responsibility
………………………… ………………… ………To……… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ………To……… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ………To……… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ………To……… ……………… …………………
………………………… ………………… ………To……… ……………… …………………
Other Relevant Information
30. Whether receiving grants already (Y/N) :———.  if “Y” name of the grant and amount/month
31. Physical Fitness :———. (Y/N)
(Certified by Physician)
32. Letters of Guarantors (Attach along with the applications)
32.1 Parents :———. (Y/N) (if Parents are dead pl. give details of a close relative who would agree to be a guarantor)
Name (father/mother) :———. NIC No. (if available) :———.
Address :———.
32.2 Govt. Officer..... (Y/N) (The Government Officer could also be a retired Person) :
Name :———. Position (held) :———.
NIC No. :———. Salary Scale :———.
Address :———. Tel No. :———.
Subject Grades

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2007
1402
For Office use Only
1. Ref No :———. 2. Date Received :
Date :––––––––.  Month :––––––––.  Year :–––––––––.
3. Officer’s Name :———.
4. Recommended /Not Recommended
5. Reasons for (4) above :———.
6. Employment Prospects identified  (Y/N) :———.
7. Approval Granted by :———. 8. Valid From :———.
Date :––––––––.  Month :––––––––.  Year :–––––––––.
9. Rejected Date :
Date :––––––––.  Month :––––––––.  Year :–––––––––.
10. Reasons for Rejection :———.
11. Others :———.
12. Authorized by :———. 13. Date :
Date :––––––––.  Month :––––––––.  Year :–––––––––.
12-411
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.