

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1905
1905
wxl 1"733 - 2011 fkdjeïn¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'11'18
No. 1,733 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1908
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1910
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th November, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th
November, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,732 of 11.11.2011 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1906
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1907
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1908
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Post of Superintendent of Translations
APPLICATIONS were called for the abovementioned post through
the Gazette Notification No. 1,712 dated 24.06.2011 of the
Democratic Socialist Repubic of Sri Lanka closing date of the
applications mentioned in clause 7 of the notification is amended as
follows.
The words "..................... should be sent by registered post to
the following address on or before 05.07.2011" mentioned in the
clause 7 should be amented as" should be sent by registered post to
the following address on or before 02.12.2011".
Note.– Applicants already sent their applications as per the
Gazette Notification published earlier, should not apply again.
S
UHADA K. GAMALATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12,
08th day of October, 2011.
11–341
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment of the Post of Development Assistant
APPLICA TIONS are called from the graduates for the post of
Development Assistant (01 post) in the Ministry of Justice.
01. Educational qualifications .– Should be a graduate of a
university recognized by the University Grants Commission.
02. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,215 – 10 x 215 – 4 x 240 – 7 x 320 – 15
x 360 – Rs. 25,965 (MN4) 2006-A.
03. Age.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years. This age limit shall not apply to the applicants already in the
Public Service.
04. Recruitment Procedure.– Qualified applicants will be recruited
on the results of a structural interview.
05. Terms of Engagement :–
1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. The selected candidates will be subject in the provisions
of the Establishment Code, the Financial Regulations,
general conditions governing the public service,
departmental orders and any other regulations or orders
issued from time to time.
3. Sections 10 to 12. Chapter II of the Establishments Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and
Sections in Chapter VI of Part I of the Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission are applicable.
06. Method of application.– Applications should be sent under
registered cover to the following address on or before 10th December,
2011 and the applications received after closing date will be rejected.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
The specimen form of application is given at the end of this
notice. Applications should be prepared on A4 size paper using both
sides. The words "Recruitment for the post of Development
Assistant" should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application.
Applicants who are already in Public Service or Provincial Public
Service should submit their applications through the Heads of their
institutions.
Applicants should furnish at the interview the originals of their
certificates in support of their qualifications. No liability will be
borne in respect of the applications lost in the post. Applications,
received after the closing date and are incomplete will be rejected.
The authority to determine any matter not provided for in this
notice is vested in the Secretary to the Ministry.
S
UHADA K. GAMALATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12,
31st October, 2011.
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
A
PPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANT
For office use only
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Full name of the applicant (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
1.4 Full name of the applicant (in English block capitals) :–––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1909
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
03. Telephone No. :––––––––.
04. The address to which the letter calling for inerview should be
sent (in Sinhala/English) :––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––.
06. Date of birth :––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of application :––––––––.
08. Sex :––––––––.
09. Marital Status :––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :
Degree :––––––––.
Class :––––––––.
University :––––––––.
Year :––––––––.
Subjects :––––––––.
11. Other qualifications :––––––––.
12. Particulars in respect of present employment :–
12.1 Post :––––––––.
12.2 Date of appointment :––––––––.
12.3 Whether confirmed or not in the post :––––––––.
12.4 Date of confirmation in the post :––––––––.
12.5 Address of the place of work :––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and I am aware that if any particular
contained herein is found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to be
disqualified before selection and to be dismissed without my
compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT IF
THE APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE OR
PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... serving as
............... in this Ministry/Department is forwarded herewith. I
inform that if this officer is selected for the post of Development
Assistant, he/she can/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official seal.
Date :––––––––.
11–365
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment of the Post of Finance Assistant
APPLICATIONS are called from the graduates who are already in
the Public service for the post of Finance Assistant in the Ministry
of Justice.
01. Educational qualifications.– Should have a Commerce or
Management Degree from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
02. Other qualifications .– Should be an officer in public or
Provincial Public Service.
03. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,215 – 10 x 215 – 4 x 240 – 7 x 320 –
15 x 360 – Rs. 25,965 (MN4) 2006-A.
04. Recruitment Procedure.– Qualified applicants will be recruited
on the results of a structural interview.
05. Terms of Engagement :–
1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. The selected candidates will be subject in the provisions
of the Establishment Code, the Financial Regulations,
Departmental orders and any other regulations or orders
issued from time to time.
3. Sections 10 to 12 in Chapter II of the Establishments
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and Sections in Chapter VI of Part I of the Procedural
Rules of the Public Service Commission are applicable.
06. Duties of the Post.– Auditing of the accounts of the Ministry
and the Department coming under the Ministry and all the Courts.
07. Method of application.– Applications should be sent under
registered cover to the following address on or before 10th December,
2011 and the applications received there after closing date will be
rejected.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
The specimen form of application is given at the end of this
notice. Applications should be prepared on A4 size paper using both
sides. The words "Recruitment for the post of Finance Assistant"
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application.
Applicants should submit their applications through the Heads
of their institutions.
Applicants should furnish at the interview the originals of their
certificates in support of their qualifications. No liability will be
borne in respect of the applications lost in the post. Applications,
received after the closing date and which are incomplete will be
rejected.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1910
The authority to determine any matter not provided for in this
notice is vested in the Secretary to the Ministry.
SUHADA K. GAMALATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12,
28th October, 2011.
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
A
PPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
FINANCE ASSISTANT
For office use only
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Full name of the applicant (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
1.4 Full name of the applicant (in English block capitals) :–––.
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
03. Telephone No. (if any) :––––––––.
04. The address to which the letter calling for inerview should be
sent (in Sinhala/English) :––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––.
06. Date of birth :––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of application :––––––––.
08. Sex :––––––––.
09. Marital Status :––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :–
Degree :––––––––.
Class :––––––––.
University :––––––––.
Year :––––––––.
Subjects :––––––––.
11. Other qualifications :––––––––.
12. Particulars in respect of present employment :–
12.1 Post :––––––––.
12.2 Date of appointment :––––––––.
12.3 Whether confirmed or not in the post :––––––––.
12.4 Date of confirmation in the post :––––––––.
12.5 Address of the place of work :––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein is found to be false or incorrect I am
liable to be disqualified before selection and to be dismissed without
any compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... serving
............... in this Office/Iìtitution is attached herewith. I also inform
that if this officer is selected for the post of Fiínce Assistant, he/she
can/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official seal.
Date :––––––––.
11–366
DEPARTMENT  OF  LABOUR
The Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to
the Posts of Stenographer Grade III – 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the
qualifications stipulated here under, for the recruitment to the posts
of Stenographer Grade III in the Department of Labour. The prevalent
number of vacancies are Seven (7) in the Sinhala medium and Three
(3) in the English medium.
02. Applicants will be directed to face a written and a practical
Examination conducted by the National Institute of Labour Studies
under the Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations and qualified
persons will be selected from those who get the highest merit at the
Examination.
03. Salary Scale. – Rs. 13,120 - 10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 -
10x320 - Rs. 22,040 in accordance with the MN-1-2006(a) of Public
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
Administration Circular 6/2006(iv). All the appointees should pass
the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination before reaching the 04th salary
step.
04. Regulations on Employment :
4.1 This post is permanent and pensionable and it is required
to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Fund. The appointment is subject to three (3)
year probationary period from the date of appointment.
4.2 In accordance with the Public Administration Circular
7/2007 dated 28.05.2007, those who are appointed to the
public service, should acquire proficiency in other official
language/languages in addition to the language of recruitment
within five (5) years from the date of appointment.
4.3 Appointees should work in the Head office of the
Department of Labour at Narahenpita, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1911
05. The required qualifications :
5.1 The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
5.2 The age should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 30 years as at the closing date of applications ;
5.3 Should be of excellent character ;
5.4 Educational qualifications :
(i) Should have passed General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination with at least 06
subjects including 4 credit passes in one sitting. Two
of those credit passes should be for first language
(Sinhala/English/Tamil) and Mathematics ; and
(ii) Should have passed at least one subject in General
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
Examination (Excluding Common General Test and
General English under the new syllabus).
5.5 Professional qualifications. – Applicants should have
followed a six month course on shorthand and computer
type-setting in the language applied at an institute
approved by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.
Note.– The following Institutes are approved by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission :
Technical College – Kalutara
Technical College – Batticaloa
Technical College – Katugastota
Technical College – Monaragala
College of Technology – Jaffna
Technical College – Kuliyapitiya
Technical College – Beliatta
College of Technology – Anuradhapura
Hardy College of Technology – Ampara
Technical College – Dehiattakandiya
Sri Lanka College of Technology – Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10
V ocational Training Centre – Kolonnawa
Technical College – Vavunia
Technical College – Medagama
5.6 Experience.– A six month practical training should have
completed at an institution recognized by the government
after the completion of the above course.
06. Examination Procedure. – This Open Competitive
Examination for the recruitment includes a written test and a practical
test. Those who score more than 40% at the written test will be
called for the practical test. The test will be conducted in Sinhala and
English mediums and the applicants are not allowed to change the
medium mentioned in the application later.
Written Test :
Question Paper Marks Time
General Knowledge and Essay 100 2 hours
Practical Test : Marks Time
Shorthand and Computer 100
typesetting (Sinhala/English)
(i) Written Test :
General Knowledge and Essay :
General paper is designed to test the knowledge of the
candidates on matters relating to current affairs of national
and international importance. Applicants will be asked to
write an essay on one of the given topics which are relevant
to current affairs. (Expressing of ideas, language skills, correct
grammar and correct spelling will be considered).
(ii) Practical Test :
(a) Sinhala shorthand and type-setting :
A paragraph will be read out continuously for 5 minutes.
Within that period, applicants should be able to do
shorthand 70 words per minute. Also, they should be
able to do computer type-setting 7 words per minute
by using the above notes ; or
(b) English shorthand and type-setting :
A paragraph will be read out continuously for 5 minutes.
Within that period, applicants should be able to do
shorthand 80 words per minute. Also they should be
able to do computer type-setting 7 words per minute
by using the above notes.
07. Recruitment Procedure.– Applicants should score at least
40% from each of the above tests (written test and practical test) in
order to be eligible for an appointment. Vacancies will be filled on the
basis of the aggregate marks scored at the competitive examination.
(It is mandatory to fulfill all the requirements mentioned in this
application).
It is compulsory that Sinhala medium applicants should sit the
Examination in Sinhala medium and English medium applicants should
sit the examination in English medium.
Sinhala medium positions will be filled on the basis of the merit
of Sinhala medium applicants while English medium positions will
be filled on the basis of the merit of English medium applicants.
08. Examination Fee .– The examination fee is Rs. 350. The
examination fee should be credited to the Account No. 0071451995
of the National Institute of Labour Studies at the Bank of Ceylon,
Nugegoda branch and the receipt should be affixed at the relevant
portion of the application. The Examination fee is not refundable
due to any reason whatsoever. Preservation of a photocopy of the
receipt issued for the payment will be beneficial.
09. Preparation of the Application :
9.1 Prepare the application according to the format given at
the end of this notification using both sides of A4 size
papers.
(
a) The application should be prepared to set paragraphs
from 01 to 03 on the first page and rest of the paragraphs

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1912
to be on the other pages. Should complete the application
with legible own hand writing.
(b) Name of the Examination in the heading should be
mentioned in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala
medium applications. Incomplete applications or
applications which are not prepared in the given format
or applications which the examination fee did not pay
on time will be rejected without any notice. Applicants
have to bear-up the consequences of not completing the
application properly. Preservation of a photocopy of
the application will be beneficial.
9.2 The Examination will be held only in Colombo in January,
2012.
9.3 The Director General of the National Institute of Labour
Studies will allow the candidates who have paid examination
fees on time and sent the properly filled (according to the
given format) applications on time to sit the Examination.
Issuing an admission card is not considered to be a
qualification for the post. If it is revealed that false
information has been included in the application or the
candidate is not having the necessary qualifications then
the candidature will be cancelled at the interview.
9.4 Forwarding of Applications :
Properly completed applications should be sent to the
Director General, The National Institute of Labour Studies,
No. 318, Highlevel Road, Colombo 06 by registered post
to reach on or before the 16.12.2011.
“Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of
Stenographers to the Department of Labour 2011”  should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope in
which the application is enclosed.
The National Institute of Labour Studies is not responsible
for the applications lost or delayed in post.
9.5 The signature of the applicant should be certified by a
principal of a Government school/Justice of Peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/Notary Public, a Commissioned
Officer of the three Forces, a Gazzetted Officer in the
Police Force, or any permanent officer in the Public Service
or provincial Public Service who draws annual consolidated
salary of not less than Rs. 240,360.
Penalty for Furnishing False Information :
If in accordance with regulations of this Examination a
candidate is found ineligible, his/her candidature will be
cancelled at any time prior to or during or after the
Examination. If at any time during the period of his/her
service, it is proved that he/she had willfully furnished
false information or he/she had been ineligible to sit this
Examination he/she would be able to be dismissed from
service forthwith.
10. Facing the Examination.– Admission Cards will be issued by
the Director General of National Institute of Labour studies a week
before the examination date to all candidates who have forwarded
their applications and eligible to sit the Examination. Candidates
who wish to sit the examination must produce the attested Admission
cards to the supervisor of the Examination centre. A candidate who
fails to produce his/her Admission Card will not be permitted to sit
the Examination.
A paper notice will be published by the Director General of the
National Institute of Labour Studies as soon as issuing the admission
cards. It should be informed to the Director General of the National
Institute of Labour Studies if the admission card would not have
been received even after 2-3 days from the paper notice. it is advisable
that the inquiry is made with a photocopy of the receipt received for
the payment of examination fees and a copy of the receipt received
for the Registered Post.
11. Candidates should prove his/her identity by producing any
of the following documents :
(1) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(2) Valid passport.
12. The candidates should adhere to the Examination rules and
conditions implemented by the Director General of the National
Institute Labour Studies. If a candidate violates any of those rules
he/she is liable to be punished at the discretion of the Director General
of the National Institute of Labour Studies.
13. The Commissioner General of Labour reserves herself the
right to take decisions with regard to conducting the examination,
awarding appointments and all the other facts and that will be the
final.
Note.– if there is any contradiction in this Gazette Notification
published in Sinhala/Tamil and English mediums, please
note that Sinhala Notification will be considered as accurate.
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
The Commissioner General of Labour,
Department of Labour.
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE
POSTS OF STENOGRAPHER (GRADE III) IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOUR – 2011
(For office use only)
The medium of language you wish to appear for the examination :
Sinhala – 1
English – 2

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1913
01. 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––.
(In English block letters) (Ex.– PERERA  A. B. C.)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
1.5 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
02. 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.2 Permanent address :––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 The address to which the admission card should be sent :
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––.
(ii) In English Capital letters :––––––––.
2.4 Telephone No. :––––––––.
03. 3.1 Civil status : married – 2,  unmarried – 1
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at closing date of the applications :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or
by registration ? :––––––––.
04. Educational qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :
Year :––––––––.  Month :––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––.
(iii) Result :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month the Examination :
Year :––––––––.       Month :––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––.
(iii) Result :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 3.
2. 4.
5.0 Professional qualifications :
Name of the course Duration Institute
6.0 Experience :
Name of the Institution at which Duration
the Training or Service is done
7.0 Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence ?
(Please indicate the (3) mark in the relevant box) :
Yes N o
If yes, give details on what sort of punishment for what sort of
offence by which court :––––––––.
8.0 The Information about the payment of the examination fee :
(i) Branch name of the Bank of Ceylon which the payment
was made :––––––––.
(ii) The number of the receipt and the date :
No. :––––––––.  Date :––––––––.
(iii) The amount paid :––––––––.
Affix the receipt properly here
9.0 Declaration of the applicant :
(a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree that I should bear-up the consequences
of not completing the application properly or for furnishing
false information.
(b) I agree to abide by all the rules and regulations applicable
to this examination enforced by the Director General of
the National Institute of Labour Studies. I further agree

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1914
FIRST  EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA
EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2011
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in Class III in the Sri Lanka Educational Administrative
Service will be held in 2011 March in Colombo.
02. The syllabus and other provisions relating to this Examination
have been published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,225/32
dated 01.03.2002. The syllabus and other provisions are indicated
below for convenience.
Examination Procedure :
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects :–
Subject Number 01 General Administration –
Constitution of Sri Lanka,
Provision of the Establishment
Code and other Regulations of
the Government
Subject Number 02 Finance
Subject Number 03 Education, Educational Law,
Administration and Supervision
(b) An officer may take up the subjects of the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on
separate occasions.
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hours duration.
that my candidature is liable to cancelled before, during or
after the examination if it is found that I am ineligible in
terms of the above conditions.
(c) I am aware that if it is found before selection that any
particulars furnished here are false or incorrect. I am liable
to be made ineligible for the post and I am also aware that
I will be dismissed with immediate effect from service at
any time if such information is found to be false or incorrect
after I am appointed to this post.
(d) I will not change any particulars mentioned here later.
––––––––––––,
The signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
03. Syllabus of Examination :
(01) General Administration :
(a) The Ceylon Government Order in Council, 1946 and
1947 (Chapter 973)
The Citizenship Act, No. 18 of 1948 (Chapter 349)
The constitution adopted and enacted on 22nd May,
1972
Registration of persons eligible to vote - Act, No. 44 of
1980
Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 19 of 1981
Referendum Act, No. 07 of 1981
Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(b) Office and Field Organization Methods
The Establishment Code and other Government
Regulations.
Chapters I, II, III, IV , V, VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XVI, XXV ,
XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII,
XLVII, XLVIII of the Establishment Code.
(02) Finance :
(a) The Financial Regulation of the Government - Part I
(Except Chapter 1)
(b) The Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the
current year, eg. their arrangements, the Head of
Revenue, Finance and Appropriation Acts.
(c) Ordinances and other Legislation relating of Specific
Accounts dealt with in Education Offices.
10.0 Attestation of the Applicant’s signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... who submit this
application is personally known to me and he/she put his/her signature
before me at ....................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attesting Officer and
the Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––.
Name of the Attesting Officer :––––––––.
Post/Position :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
11–565

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1915
(03) Education, Educational Law, Administration and
Supervision :
(a) Education Law – Candidates are excepted to be familiar
with following ordinances and Acts of Parliament :
* Education Ordinance No. 31 of 1939
* Amendment Ordinance No. 26 of 1947
* Amendment Act, No. 05 of 1951
* Amendment Act, No. 43 of 1953
* Code of Regulations for Government Schools
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 05 of 1960
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges
(Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 08 of 1961
* Education (Change of Designations) Act, No. 35 of
1973
* Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979
* The Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 1981
* National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985.
(b) Educational Administration :
1. Policies of the Ministry of Education :
(i) Ministry of Education
(ii) Organization and functions of the Ministry of
Education and the Departmental Institutions
under the Ministry including District
Departments.
(iii) Educational Planning at National and Regional
levels ; Aims and objectives, methods (including
school mapping), implementation etc.
2. School Management, School community relationship
3. Educational Management Information Systems.
4. Special Education Programmes.
(c) Educational Supervision :
* Scheme for school supervision and criteria used in
evaluation of teacher performance
* Continuous evaluation programmes in schools
* Self evaluation programms in school
* School Supervision by the District Departments and
the Ministry of Education
* Validation of Internal Evaluation by External Teams
(Candidates are advised to be thorough with the
Circulars, Manuals and other publications issued
by the Ministry of Education)
Reference :
* Asian Institutes of Educational Planning and
Administration (1970)
* Modern Management Techniques in Educational
Administration
* A Report of a Seminar - New Delhi
* Barry and Tye. (1975) Running a school - Temple
Smith London
* Bush T. Glatter, R. Good, C. Riches, (eds. 1980)
Schools
* Approaches to School Management, Harper and
Row
* Dr. Khan Mohideen Sheriff (1983) School
Administration, New Delhi
* Ministry of Education - Education in Ceylon (1969)
* A Centenary Volume Part II, Part III Ministry of
Education and Cultural Affairs, Ceylon
* Open University (1981) Policy Making,
Organization and Leadership in Schools (Block 4 of
Course E 323) Open University Press London
* Shipman, Murten (1983) in School Evaluation,
Heineman Education Books, London
* Report on the Management Reforms in the Ministry
of Education 1984.
04. Candidates should obtain 40% of the total marks allocated
for each subject for a pass.
05. Language medium of the Examination :
(i) Candidates can answer the question papers either in
the Official Language or in the National Language.
(ii) Candidates can answer in the language medium of the
Competitive Examination he passed to enter the public
service or if there was no competitive examination,
language medium of qualifying examination to enter
the public service.
06. If it is detected that a candidate has answered the question
papers in a language medium for which he/she is not entitled
his/her candidature will be cancelled. He/She will not be
allowed to change the language medium applied for, at a
later stage.
07. Application should be prepared and submitted by using a
A4 size paper in conformity with the specimen form
indicated below. (Items 01 to 06 should appear in the first
page and the remaining items should appear in the second
page) In the Sinhala application the name of the examination
should be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala and in
the Tamil application the name of the examination should
be indicated in English in addition to Tamil. Relevant
Information in the application should be clearly written in
candidate’s own handwriting. Applications which are not
in conformity with the specimen form and those which are
incomplete will be rejected without notification. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with the
candidate. Candidates should be vigilant as to whether the
duly completed application is in conformity with the
specimen form and it should be noted that the application
will be rejected if it is not so.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1916
08. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates are bound by
the rules prescribed by him for conducting examinations.
These rules are indicated at the end of this notification.
09. Applications should be forwarded under registered post
through Heads of Departments addressed to the
Commissioner General of the Examinations. Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations
Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be received on or
before 20th December, 2011. Name of the examinations
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Any application received after this date will be rejected.
10. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
candidates a newspaper notification to that effect will be
published by the Department of Examinations. If the
admission cards are not received even after 02 or 03 days
of the newspaper notice it should be notified to the
Department of Examinations according to the instructions
in the newspaper notice. A certified photocopy of the
application retained with the candidate, the registration
receipt and the Fax No. for sending the admission card if
the candidate is a resident outside Colombo should be sent
to the Department of Examinations. A copy of the letter of
request send to the Department of Examinations should be
retained with the candidate.
(i) Name of examination ;
(ii) Full name of candidate ;
(iii) Address of the candidates in full ;
(iv) Date of posting the ap plication, registered letter
number and Post Office.
11. Complains from candidates who fail to fulfill the
requirements indicated in para 9 above will not be
considered.
12. At the examination hall it is the responsibility of the
candidates to produce evidence in proof of their identity
and for this purpose only the identity card issued by the
Department of Registration of persons or a valid passport
will be accepted.
13. Fees for examinations will be charged as follows. The
relevant examination fee should be paid at any District or
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue head 2003-
02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
receipt obtained for the payment from the District/
Divisional Secretariat shuld be pasted in the relevant box
of the application form. (It is advisable to retain a copy of
the receipt with you).
(a) First sitting (fees won't be levied for the whole
examination or part of it)
(b) Thereafter for each sitting : Rs. cts.
For the whole examination 1,000 0
For one subject 500 0
14. The issue of an admission card should not be considered an
acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to
appear for the examination.
H. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
‘Isurupaya’, Battaramulla.
Application Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS
IN CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA EDUCATIONAL
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2011
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III jeks mka;sfha ks,OdÍka
i|yd jk m<uqjk ld¾hCIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2011
(To be forwarded to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
by registered post through the Head of the Department)
Language medium for the examination :Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Relevant number to be written within cage)
(Name of examination should be written on the top left corner in
the envelope)
01. ( a) Name with initials with initials at the end (English Capital
Letters) Example : SILV A, S. A. :––––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in English Capital Letters) :––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official Address :––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :––––––––––.
(iii) Address for dispatch of Admission Card (in English Capital
Letters) :––––––––––.
03. Subjects offered with subject numbers as indicated in para 02(a)
in the notification to be written clearly :
Subject Number Subject ..................
Subject Number Subject ..................
Subject Number Subject ..................
04. National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.11.2011
1917
05. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
06. (i) Designation :––––––––––.
(ii) Department/Zonal Education office/Divisional Education
Office/School :––––––––––.
07. State whether you have appeared for this examination
previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, subjects and
medium in which answers were written :
Y ear Subject Medium
.................. ................... ....................
.................. ................... ....................
.................. ................... ....................
08. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the
medium indicated in para. 06 above. I also agree to abide by all
the rules and regulations of the examination. I also declare that
I will be subject to the rules and regulations to be imposed
relating to this examination by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
09. The amount of examination fees paid :
Paste the receipt received after payment here. (A photocopy
to be retained by the candidate) only if relevant.
––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Submitted
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is
eligible to sit this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit in the
language medium indicated by him/her in para. 6.
I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed
above (*).
–––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of the
Head of Department and official frank.
Date :––––––––––.
(*) To be deleted when payment of fees is not requested.
11–571