

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'15
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.05.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1914$41 - 2015 uehs ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'05'15
No. 1914/41  - FRIDAY ,  MAY  15,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
CENTRAL  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
 Minipe  Pradeshiya   Sabha
BY-LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-Section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156 of 1987, to be read with Sub-Section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989
(Consequential Provisions) has approved the following by-laws framed by the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha, according to
powers vested under Sub-Section (iii) of Section (126) of  the said Act, to be read with Sub-Section (1) of Section 122 of
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and the said by-laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority
area of Minipe from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARA TH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Central Province,
Kandy,
19th  February, 2015.
M
INIPE   P RADESHIY A SABHA
BY-LAWS RELATING TO OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR LEVYING TAXES
1. This by-law is cited as the by-law relating to obtaining information for levying taxes from all business places and
industries maintained in the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Areas.
2. This by-law is framed for the purpose of making provisions for obtaining periodical returns necessary for
collection of information required for preparing statements of accounts for levying taxes from all business
places and industries maintained within the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Areas.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'15
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.05.2015
3. All business and industrial institutions and organizations in the authority area of Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha shall
maintain correct and genuine statements, and reports of accounts according to recognized norms of accounting
systems.
4. It is the duty of every person, subject to business tax, to render all information and copies of such information
in respect of all financial transactions and accounts relating to such information when required by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized on that behalf.
5. All business information an periodical returns of financial accounts required from time to time by the Chairman or
by an officer authorized by him, shall be prepared based on recognized norms of accounting systems.
6. All the financial reports and statements of accounts to be forwarded under by-law No. 05 shall be audited and be
certified by a recognized auditor.
7. Any person whoever, who receives a notice forwarded by the secretary or by an authorized officer of the Minipe
Pradeshiya Sabha shall forwarded to the Secretary the information required by such notice within 14 days of the
receipts of the notice.
8. Furnishing false information or failure to forward such information is an offence.
9. When it is required to check the information furnised in the periodical returns called for under by-law No. 05, it is
lawful for the Chairman or the person authorized by him to visit such place of business or the premises of the
industry and check the authenticity of such information from books and documents therein.
10. Contravention of any one or several or all these by-laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and when convicted,
or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an maximum
fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under Sub-section (2) of Section
122 of the  Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987.
11. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 10, shall be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha fund.
12. Unless the context otherwise required in these by laws -
“Council” means the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha to inspect and
supervise all activities of any business place.
13. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
05 - 801
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.