

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1955$19 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 25 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'02'25
No. 1955/19  -  THURSDAY  FEBRUARY  25,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
MEDIA   GUIDELINES   TO   BE   FOLLOWED /POLICIES   TO   BE   OBSERVED
BY   THE   ELECTRONIC   AND   PRINT   MEDIA   DURING   REFERENDA  AND   AN   ELECTIONS
IN terms of provisions of Article 104B(5)(a) of the  Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
amended by the Ninteenth Amendment and in particular, to ensure the rightful exercise of franchise and free and fair
elections and referenda, the following guidelines are issued by the Election Commission, to be followed by all electronic
and print media institutions and personnel involved.
1. All telecasting, broadcasting and print media shall be neutral and impartial in their reporting of election
related matters and shall not discriminate against any contesting political party / independent group or a
candidate, in allocating airtime and allotting space in the newspapers.
2. All media institutions shall provide accurate, balanced and impartial information in broadcasting/televising
their news bulletins and other programmes relating to political matters. The neutrality and impartiality of
media shall be monitored by the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on Elections Complaints
and the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on Media Guidelines regularly.
3. Sometimes, editorial opinions may seem confused and biased and therefore, electronic media are urged not
to broadcast/telecast such opinions. However, if such editorial opinion is broadcast/televised/published, the
affected party should be given the opportunity to broadcast/telecast/publish material to counter such opinion.
4. Programme presenters and announcers of television and radio channels, should refrain from expressing
personal views at the newspaper desks where newspaper headlines and cartoons are presented, since such
views may promote one party with prejudice to another.
5. It is the responsibility of the news and current affairs divisions of all electronic and print media institutions
not to broadcast/televise/publish any programme or supplement which are not advertisements during the
election period, if such programme/supplements/news items are illegal or biased.
6. If any material is broadcast/televised/published covering an incident or an event with comments of one
candidate, all other political parties that have an interest in the event or are concerned, or are likely to be
affected, should also be given opportunity to express their version on the same news item or programme.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'02'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.02.2016
2A
7. All documentary programmes or special programmes which are directly connected with the election and
broadcast/televised during the period of an election, should disclose the names of the script writer, announcer
and the editor. If the particular media institution has retained the right not to disclose the same, the person in
charge of the programme should be held responsible for its contents.
8. Air time during any programme or news bulletin should not be utilized for making unsubstantiated allegations
against candidates contesting at an election that cannot be reasonably proved. If a candidate or a political
party claims that another candidate or a supporter has made any false statement against him/her or his/her
party, opportunity should be availed of to him/her or his/her party to counter the same.
9. When airing/publishing news or programmes which are not related to the election, such as official functions
and events related to crimes, all media institutions should consult the parties involved for clarity, since such
news/programmes could promote or demote some candidate or a party.
10. Coverage given by Radio or Television to opinions/views expressed by the President or Prime Minister or
Ministers should be treated as coverage given to the political party to which he/she belongs and therefore
leaders of rival political parties contesting the election should also be given opportunity in similar programmes.
The print media should similarly provide equal space and prominence to all political parties/candidates in
publishing special discussions and reporting campaign meetings.
11. Special favours should not be given in allocating air time or space in the print media to one candidate or more
to promote his/her/their election or to cause disadvantage to another.
12. Refrain from publishing or broadcasting lectures, interviews, etc. with public officers which promote any
contesting candidate or cause disadvantage to other candidates.
13. All electronic media institutions should act fairly in selecting participants for panel discussions and as such,
the composition of the discussion should be balanced. They should refrain from directing programmes to
cause disadvantage to any representative who has poor language proficiency. When publishing interviews of
politicians with poor language proficiency, print media shall not create uncomfortable situations to them.
Information obtained through vague and incomprehensible questions should not be published, or such questions
should never be asked. At the outset, the participant in the programme should be warned not to make statements
which are unethical or harmful to communal harmony, and if such statements are made while the discussion
is in progress, the programme should be discontinued then and there.
14. All phone-in programmes should give fair opportunity for all callers irrespective of the content of their
questions or contributions.  Directors, moderators and others engaged in organizing such phone-in programmes
should be answerable for imbalanced phone-in programmes.
15. If any Chairperson, Member of the Board of Management, Director or a responsible journalist of any electronic
or print media institution actively engages in political activities, such activities cause conflict of interestin
Providing balanced broadcasting/publishing. Hence, such officers/ employees shall inform of the following
in writing in advance to the management of the institution.
a. His/her level of involvement,
b. Position held in the institution,
c. Extent of involvement in programme making
16. When an individual holding a leading post in  a recognized political party(Leader, Chairman, Secretary, National
Organizer, Treasurer, Deputy Leader, Assistant Leader, Senior Deputy Chairman or a post with similar powers)
and holding a dominant office such as the Chairman/Member of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive/
Chief Editor in a media institution, and if he/she is a candidate at the election or if his/her party is contesting
directly or under a recognized alliance, such person should refrain from actively engaging in duties of his/her

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'02'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.02.2016
3A
post of the media institution. If such person is contesting as a candidate while holding office in a contesting
party at an election, he/she should refrain from anchoring/moderating programmes of a political nature in a
television or broadcasting institution and in the case of print media he/she should not publish his/her own
political articles through that media institution.
17 When a person of a party refuses to participate at a discussion or interview and chooses not to offer reasons
for his/her non-participating, the media institution shall respect his/her position. Dramatic situations such as
displaying of an empty chair etc., should not be employed to underline non-participating. It is recommended
that a simple and direct announcement be make about the absence of the participant. .
18 A broadcaster who broadcasts or print media that publishes the result of an opinion poll, should announce the
name of the organization that conducted the poll, the organization or the person that commissioned and
funded the poll, methodology employed, the size of the sample, margin of error and the period of fieldwork.
In addition the broadcaster or publisher should state that the poll reflects the public opinion only at the time
the poll was taken.
19 No statement where a candidate promotes the candidature of another contestant of another party or group
shall be broadcast, telecast or published.
20 Media personnel should not engage in taking photographs or videoing of the inside of polling stations or
postal voting centers as the Election Commission has prohibited such activities without written consent. Any
photographs or video visuals obtained illegally should not be published in newspapers, televised or promoted
through any media. Even the photographs and visuals obtained with the approval of the Commissioner, should
be published or televised only after the poll.
21 It is considered vital that a period of silence prevails just before the date of poll to enable the voter to
contemplate and consider the pros and cons of various policies announced and promises made by political
parties and candidates during the election campaign. The media shall refrain from televising, broadcasting or
publishing discussions, debates, advertisements, etc. related to the election during the period of silence
(period of refraining from carrying out propaganda), enacted by law (48 hours), prior to the date of an election.
22 Refrain from broadcasting/telecasting/publishing propaganda that may create or induce hatred and intolerance
among Sri Lankan people on various grounds including the religious beliefs, faiths practised, languages spoken,
ethnicity, customs and castes.
23 Avoid broadcasting/telecasting/publishing propaganda activities that promote hateful politics among political
activists and within society.
24 Refrain from republishing or repeat telecasting of statements expressed previously by a candidate or a
supporter about another candidate,without the consent of the declarant and honour the request made by a
declarant not to repeat such statements made by him/her previously.
25 Media institutions shall not give coverage to anonymous notices or propaganda and to the notices or propaganda
under the names of fake organizations or persons. The responsibility in this regard shall lie with the respective
media institution.
26 The National Anthem, The National Flag,Historical flags, Provincial and Regional Flags, Religious Symbols,
Religious Flags, paintings or photograph of founders of religions or religious leaders shall not be published
or broadcast to promote or demote the candidature of a candidate or a party/group. Notices or advertisements
of such nature shall not be broadcast/ televised/ published.
27 Media institutions shall be accountable with regard to publishing/broadcasting/televising incorrect statements/
news and they will be subject to legal proceeding that would arise in this regard.
28 It is the responsibility of all electronic/print media institutions to adhere to and abide by the moral ethics of
media.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'02'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.02.2016
4A
29 According to the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, the use of state property and funds by state media
institutions to promote political parties/groups/candidates is illegal and it is also an offence to cause loss to
government revenue and act to cause damage to an institution. All government and semi government media
institutions shall refrain from engaging in such activities as disciplinary action could be instituted against
those responsible, in addition to the punishments prescribed in the Constitution.
30 It is expected that the proprietors of all electronic and print media shall adhere to the guidelines given above
and shall ensure that their institutions observe them earnestly.
31 It is also expected that the administrators of social media sites shall also follow the above guidelines as
applicable to them, during the election period.
32 It is not only the duty, but also the responsibility of the proprietors of media institutions and administrators/
users of social media to adhere to the above guidelines, because it is essential to follow them during the
election period.
33 The Standing Committee comprising permanent representatives of political parties, the Coordinating Officers
of the National Centre for Investigation of Election Complaints and representatives of Observer Organizations
recognised by the Election Commission will intervene in the issues arising in the implementation of the
guidelines and express their views and recommendations. Their views and recommendations shall be considered
by the Standing Committee for Media guidelines comprising officers of the  Elections Commission,
representatives of Ministry of Mass Media and Department of Information, along with the views/observations
of the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka and shall make decisions. Media institutions shall act according
to these decisions. Implementation of these guidelines will be by consensus of this Committee which is
established to direct, observe and monitor the implementation of these guidelines.
34 Media institution or any journalist is not bound to publish or broadcast, any order or a request, made by a
political party/a candidate, violating the aforesaid guidelines. At such instances such institution or the journalist
has the right to seek legal assistance.
35 Media institutions should work towards ensuring that vote is a fundamental right of the people and its exercise
is their obligation.
36 It is the responsibility of media institutions to promote criteria, guidelines and democratic principles required
for a conducive political culture.
These media guidelines are issued to create a conducive environment for a free and fair election. It is, therefore, the
responsibility of all political parties, independent groups, and political activists, election observer organizations,
civil society organizations and every citizen of this country to support media institutions to implement them and to
prevent obstructions in the implementation of the same. Hence, the Election Commission, anticipates all concerned
parties will extend their cooperation to all  media institutions to act according to these media guidelines.
Mr.Mahinda Deshapriya,Chairman, Election Commission
Mr.N.J.Abeysekara, Member, Election Commission
Mr.S.Rathnajeevan H. Hool, Member, Election Commission
NB:  Please note that these Media Guidelines drafted on the basis of the guidelines issued at previous elections, were
presented to the Heads of Media Institutions. Thereafter, the draft was discussed with the permanent
representatives nominated by Heads of Media Institutions. The current Guidelines are issued after a consensus
was arrived at, after the deliberations at these discussions.
03-289
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.