

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 22,  2010
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 21st January, 2010]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
WARIYAPOLA  RAJAMAHA  VIHARA
DEVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT,  N O . 2  OF  2010

<!-- page 2 -->

1Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
Short title.
Preamble.
[Certified on 21st January 2010]
L.D.—O. (Inc.) 27/2008.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  WARIYAPOLA  RAJAMAHA  VIHARA
D EVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development Foundation has
been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be expendent to grant the
application:
BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Wariyaplola Rajamaha
Vihara Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act,
No. 2 of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as presently are members of
the Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation") or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to
as the "Corporation") with perpetual succession under the
name and style of the "Foundation", and by that name may
sue and be sued with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Wariyapola
Rajamaha
Vihara
Development
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
2
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to take necessary steps to develop the Wariyapola
Rajamaha Viharaya in every aspect for the spiritual
advancement of the people and also to take steps to
make new additions to the Viharaya when required;
(b) to assist to develop the moral values of the
community and to take relevant measures in this
regard;
(c) to take steps to establish, maintain, manage and
develop pirivenas and other relevant religious
institutions for the academic development of
Bhikkus;
(d) to implement programmes in respect of pre-schools,
day-care centers, homes for children and their
religious education;
(e) to assist to enhance the welfare facilities and
benefits for Sri Lankan students who are unable to
pursue their education due to poverty and
disability;
(f) to conduct necessary classes, lecturers, seminars,
conferences, workshops, discussions, dialogues,
educational tours and exhibitions with a view to
promoting education for Buddhist bikkus and
bikkunies;
(g) to provide housing for the benefit of the poor,
elderly, destitute, and those with physical or mental
disabilities, inaugurate and maintain language
training and vocational training courses in order to
deploy the youth in productive services and to
provide facilities for the purpose of generating
income in order to maintain and continue such
training course;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
(h) to implement programmes for health camps for
disease control, exercise, sports and medical aid
with a view to ensuring welfare of the community;
(i) to create an awareness in the community in respect
of promotion and preservation of literature, art, craft
and natural resources and to commence and carry
out natural programmes in order to protect the
traditions of Sri Lanka;
(j) to collaborate with other institutions whether in
Sri Lanka or abroad having objects similar to those
of the Corporation.
(2) In the implementation of the objects of the Act as are
specified in subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that
such implementation is carried out.
4. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall subject to the provisions of this Act,  and such rules as
are made under section 7, be administered by a Board of
Management (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’)
consisting of the President, Executive Director, Vice
President, Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Assistant Secretary,
Treasurer, Chief Organizer and six committee members
elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The Board shall have the power to do all or any of
such functions as may be assigned to it.
(3) The first Board shall consist of the Board of Directors
of the Foundation holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
5. The Board shall cause a register to be kept of the
members, in which every person on the day preceding the
date of commencement of this Act is a member of the
Foundation and every person thereafter duly admitted as a
member of the Corporation shall have his name inscribed.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation
Membership
and Register
of members.

<!-- page 5 -->

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
4
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, rent, construct and otherwise obtain
lands or buildings which may be requried for the
purposes of the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise money from the Government
approved Banks and other institutions  for the purposes
of the Corporation with the approval of the Board;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation, in such a manner
as the Board may think fit;
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants,
donations and gifts of all kinds;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trusts and conditions
affecting any real or personal property;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation;
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purpose of the Corporation; and
Power of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
(j) to do all such acts and things as are necessary or
expedient for the proper and effective carrying out
of the objects of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for the following
matters:—
(a) the admission and classification of membership,
fees payable by members,  expulsion or resignation;
(b) for the election of members to the Board or vacation
of or, removal from office of office bearers and
powers, duties and conduct of the Executive Board;
(c) for appointment, powers, duties, functions and
conduct of various officers, agents and servants of
the Corporation;
(d) for the procedure to be observed at the summoning
and holding of meeting of the Corporation, the time,
place, notice and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum therefore and the conduct of business;
(e) the qualifications for membership of the Board and
of the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Corporation  may be amended, altered,
added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner,
as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
6
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for
and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in a
bank approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual, who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation, and all debts due to, and
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Foundation
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
11. If upon the dissolution of the corporation, there
remains after the satisfaciton of all debts and liabilities, any
property, whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other institute or institutes having objects
similar to those of the corporation and which is or are by the
rules prohibited from distributing any income or profit
among its or their members. Such society or societies shall
be determined by the members of the corporation at or
immediately before the time of dissolution of the
Corporation.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7 and for the
purpose of the Act with full power to sell mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of such person as may be determined by the Board and shall
not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever except in the
presence of the President and another member of the Board
as may be provided in the rules who shall sign their names
on the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Wariyapola Rajamaha Vihara Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2010
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.