

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 423
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 418 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"217 – 2021 fmnrjdß ui 25 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2021'02'25
No. 2,217  –  thuRsday ,  fEbRuaRy 25, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th March, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th March, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
415 - b 82208- 5,403 (02/2021)
Note.–    (i) institute of World Life Line yoga (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of february 12, 2021.
 (ii) White Rose foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of february 12, 2021.
N. B.–   the list of Jurors in Galle-balapitiya Jurisdiction area in year 2021 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in sinhala, tamil 
and English.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
416
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
417
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
418
NATIONAL DANGEROuS DRuGS CONTROL 
bOARD 
vacancies 
aPPLicatioNs are invited from citizens of sri Lanka to 
fill the following vacancies in the National Dangerous Drugs 
control board.
01. Position- manager (Transport & maintenance) 
Service Category - “Junior manager”
 No. of vacancies - 01
 01.1. Qualifications :
01.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in Management or 
commerce recognized by the university 
Grants commission.
 And
 should have 01 year experience in the 
relevant field after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
02. Position- Scientific Officer
 Service Category - “Junior manager”
 No. of vacancies - 06
 02.1. Qualifications :
02.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in chemistry 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have 01 year experience in the 
relevant field after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
03. Position- Counsellor
 Service Category - “Junior manager” 
No. of vacancies - 02
 03.1. Qualifications :
03.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in sociology/ 
Psychology/ criminology/ social Work 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have 01 year experience in the 
relevant field after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
04.  Position- Treatment and Investigation Officer
 Service Category - “Junior manager”
 No. of vacancies - 01
 04.1. Qualifications :
04.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in sociology/ 
Psychology/ criminology/ social Work 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have 01 year experience in the 
relevant field after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
05. Position- Drug Education And Information Officer 
Service Category - “Junior manager”
 No. of vacancies - 03
 05.1. Qualifications :
05.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in social sciences 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have 01 year experience in the 
relevant field after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
06. Position- Outreach Officer
 Service Category - “Junior manager”
 No. of vacancies - 03
 06.1. Qualifications :
06.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in sociology/ 
Psychology/ criminology/ social Work 
Posts – vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
419
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have 01 year experience in the 
relevant field after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
07. Position- Research Officer
 Service Category-“Junior manager” 
 No. of vacancies - 03
 07.1. Qualifications :
07.1.1. External candidates
 should have a degree in sociology/ 
criminology/ social Work/statistics 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have 01 year experience in the 
relevant field after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
 Internal Candidates (for the Posts mentioned above 
01,02,03,04,05,06 and 07) 
 (Qualifications 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 below)
1. Should have fulfilled the qualifications for the 
above external applicants.
 Or
2. Management assistant - should have completed 
at least 05 years of satisfactory service in a post 
in the relevant field in Grade II of the Non - 
technical service category.
 Or
3. Management assistant - should have completed 
at least 05 years of satisfactory service in a post 
in the relevant field in grade II of the Technical 
service category.
 Or
4. should have completed 08 years of satisfactory 
service in a post in the relevant field 
Enforcement/ Operational/ Extension Officer 
service category.
 salary category - JM 1-1
 salary scale - Rs.(42,600 - 10 x 755 - 18 x 1,135 
- Rs.70,580)
 (Government approved allowances are paid in 
addition to salary)
Age: Must be not less than 22 years and not more than 
45 years. Maximum age limit is not applicable for internal 
applicants.
08. Position - Assistant Counselor
 Service Category - “Enforcement / Operational / 
Extension”
 No. of vacancies - 05
 08.1. Qualifications :
08.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in sociology / 
Psychology / criminology / social Work 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have obtained a diploma of not less 
than 01 year in the field relevant to the post.
09. Position - Assistant Research Officer
 Service Category - “Enforcement / Operational / 
Extension”
 No. of vacancies - 02
 09.1. Qualifications :
09.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in sociology / 
criminology / social Work / statistics 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have obtained a diploma of not less 
than 01 year in the field relevant to the post.
10. Position - Assistant Outreach Officer
 Service Category - “Enforcement / Operational / 
Extension”
 No. of vacancies - 06
 10.1. Qualifications :
10.1.1. External Candidates :
 should have a degree in sociology / 
Psychology / criminology / social Work 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
420
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have obtained a diploma of not 
less than 01 year in the field relevant to 
the post.
11. Position - Assistant Scientific Officer
 Service Category - “Enforcement / Operational / 
Extension”
 No. of vacancies - 04
 11.1. Qualifications :
11.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in chemistry 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have obtained a diploma of not less 
than 01 year in the field relevant to the post.
12.  Position - Assistant Drug Education And 
Information Officer
 Service Category - “Enforcement / Operational / 
Extension”
 No. of vacancies - 03
 12.1. Qualifications :
12.1.1. external Candidates :
 should have a degree in social sciences 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
 And
 should have obtained at least 1 year 
Diploma in the relevant field for the post.
 Internal Candidates (for the Posts mentioned above 
08,09,10,11 and 12) 
 
 (Qualifications 1 or 2 below)
1. Should have fulfilled the qualifications for the 
above external applicants.
 Or
2. Management assistant - should have 
completed at least 05 years of satisfactory 
service of National dangerous drugs control 
Board in a relevant post in the relevant field in 
Grade ii, technical service category.
Salary Code - mA 5-2
Salary Scale  - Rs.(36,850 - 10 x 755 — 15 x 930 -5 
x1,135- 64,025/-)
(Government approved allowances are paid in addition 
to salary)
Age - Must be not less than 22 years and not more than 45 
years. for internal applicants the maximum age limit does 
not apply.
13.  Position - Counseling Assistant
 Service Category - “management Assistant” - 
Technical 
No. of vacancies - 30
 13.1. Qualifications :
13.1.1. External candidates :
 Having obtained a Diploma certificate of 
proficiency not below than the National  
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) 
Level 5, issued by a technical/ 
V ocational training institute 
accepted by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission in the relevant 
field.
 Or
 Passed G.c.E (a/L) Examination with 
minimum of three passes (except General 
exam)
 With
 Having Obtained a Diploma Certificate 
of proficiency not less than one year from 
a vocational training institute accepted 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission in the field of Counseling/ 
sociology/ criminology/ Psychology and 
social work
14.  Position - Outreach Assistant
 Service Category - “management Assistant” - 
Technical
 No. of vacancies - 04
 14.1. Qualifications :

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
421
14.1.1. external Candidates :
 Having obtained a Diploma certificate of 
proficiency not below than the National 
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 
5, issued by a technical/ V ocational 
training institute accepted by the tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission in 
the relevant field.
 Or
 Passed G.c.E (a/L) Examination with 
minimum of three passes (except General 
exam).
 With
 Having obtained a Diploma Certificate of 
proficiency not less than one year from 
a V ocational training institute accepted 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission in the field of Counseling/ 
sociology/ criminology/ Psychology and 
social work.
15. Position - Drug Education & Information Assistant 
Service Category - “management Assistant” -  
   Technical 
 No. of vacancies - 03
 15.1. Qualifications :
15.1.1. external Candidates :
 Having obtained a Diploma certificate 
of proficiency not below than the 
National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) Level 5, issued by a technical/ 
V ocational training institute accepted 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission in the relevant field.
 Or
 Passed G.c.E (a/L) Examination 
with minimum of three passes (except 
General exam)
 With
 Having obtained a Diploma Certificate 
of proficiency not less than one year 
from a V ocational training institute 
accepted by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission in the field of 
sociology/ criminology/ Psychology/
social work and communication.
16. Position - Research Assistant
 Service Category - “management Assistant” -  
   Technical 
 No. of vacancies - 06
 16.1. Qualifications :
16.1.1. external Candidates :
 Having obtained a Diploma certificate of 
proficiency not below than the National 
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 
5, issued by a technical/ V ocational 
training institute accepted by the tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission in 
the relevant field.
 Or
 Passed G.c.E (a/L) Examination with 
minimum of three passes (except General 
exam)
 With
 Having obtained a Diploma Certificate of 
proficiency not less than one year from 
a V ocational training institute accepted 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission in the field of Counseling/ 
sociology/ criminology/ Psychology/
social work.
17. Position - Nurse
 Service Category - “management Assistant” -  
   Technical 
 No. of vacancies - 04
 17.1. Qualifications :
17.1.1. external Candidates :
 Having obtained a Diploma certificate of 
proficiency not below than the National 
V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) Level 
5, issued by a technical / V ocational 
training institute accepted by the tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission in 
the Nursing field.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
422
18. Position - Lab Technician
 Service Category - “management Assistant” -  
   Technical 
 No. of vacancies - 04
 18.1. Qualifications :
18.1.1. external Candidates :
 Having obtained a Diploma certificate of 
proficiency not below than the National 
V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) Level 5, 
issued by a technical / V ocational training 
institute accepted by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission in the 
Laboratory Technology field.
 Internal Candidates (for the Posts 
mentioned above 13,14,15,16,17 and 18)
 Should have fulfilled the qualifications for 
the above external applicants.
Salary Code-mA 2-1
Salary Scale.– Rs- (30,310 - 10 x 300 - 7 x 350 - 4 x 495 
- 20 x 660 - 50,940/-)
(Government approved allowances are paid in addition 
to salary)
age : Must be not less than 18 years and not more than 
45 years. Maximum age limit is not applicable for internal 
applicants
19. Position - management Assistant
 Service Category - management Assistant -
     Non-Technical 
 No. of vacancies - 03
 19.1. Qualifications :
19.1.1. external Candidates 
 educational :
(a) should have passed 06 subjects in 
GcE (ordinary Level) Examination 
with 04 credits at once including,
 (i) sinhala / tamil
 (ii) Mathematics
(b) should have passed at least 
three subjects (excluding the 
General Examination) at the GcE 
(advanced Level) Examination.
 (followed a word processing / 
typing course recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission or any other similar 
level of skills).
19.1.2. Internal Candidates :
(a) Primary Grade of the National 
dangerous drugs control board 
- Non-t echnical, semi-technical 
and technical service category 
Employees with the following "b" 
‘C' and ‘D' qualifications can apply 
for this.
(b) should have passed 06 subjects in 
GcE (ordinary Level) Examination 
with 04 credits at once including,
 (i) sinhala / tamil
 (ii) Mathematics
 (followed a word processing / 
typing course recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission or any other similar 
level of skills)
(c) Must hold permanent appointments 
in the service and be confirmed in 
those appointments.
(d) should have completed 05 years 
of continuous satisfactory service 
from a permanent appointment 
prior to the due date.
Notes: - (I) a  period of training who has served 
before being permanently appointed to a 
post or who has served as a condition of 
permanent appointment for a post will not 
be counted for the period of five years of 
qualification mentioned in paragraph “d” 
above. temporary / casual Periods of service 
prior to being permanently appointed to a post 
are not counted for the period of five years 
of qualification referred to in paragraph “b” 
above.
Salary Category - Ma 1-1 
Salary Scale.- Rs.(27,910 - 10 x 300 - 7 x 350 - 4 x 495 - 
20 x 660 - 48,540/-)
(Government approved allowances are paid in addition 
to salary)
Age : Must be not less than 18 years and not more than 
45 years. Maximum age limit is not applicable for internal 
applicants.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
423
mINISTRy Of fINANCE
Government valuation Department
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to thE Post of assistaNt 
V aLuER of cLass ii GRadE ii iN thE catEGoRy 
of fiELd / officE basEd officERs sEGMENt 2 
iN sRi LaNka V aLuatioN dEPaRtMENt - 2021 
thE Open Competitive Examination to recruit 153 officers 
to the post of assistant Valuer, class ii Grade ii in sri Lanka 
Valuation department, will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in June 2021, only in colombo.  
the date of the examination shall be informed later. the 
chief Valuer reserves the right of postponing or canceling 
the said examination.
applications are called from both male and female 
applicants who satisfy the following qualifications :
01 . Qualifications:
   (i)  Educational Qualifications :
  should possess the bachelor of science 
special degree in Estate Management and 
Valuation recognized by the university Grants 
commission of sri Lanka or be a chartered 
Valuer with the membership of the Royal 
institution of chartered surveyors in the 
united kingdom.
 (ii)  Physical Fitness :
  Every candidate should be in a sound physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of 
the island and discharge duties in the post 
concerned.
 (iii) Other Qualifications :
 (a)  should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 (b)  should be of an excellent moral character
Other.– applicants should be able to carry out the duties 
entrusted to the post efficiently and should be able to work 
in any part of the island and should have a perfect physical 
and mental fitness as well as an excellent character.
Qualifications must be fulfilled in every way on the 
closing date on which applications are received.
Language of reference to the above post
applications should be referred in English Language.
Recruitment Procedure.– Will be recruited on the results 
of a written competitive examination and / or a structured 
interview decided by the recruitment authority.
Nature of Appointment .– this is a permanent post and 
entitlement to Employees Provident fund and Employees 
trust fund. 
Application Fee.– application fee Rs.500/- shall be paid 
by any bank of ceylon branch to the account number 1643, 
maintained at Bank of Ceylon under “National Dangerous 
Drugs Control Board”. Please keep a copy of the slip 
with you and send the original deposit slip attached to the 
application. the application fee will not be refunded.
application forms should be sent to the Chairman, 
National Dangerous Drugs Control board, No. 383, kotte 
Road, Rajagiriya on or before 19.03.2021 under registered 
Post. specimen application forms can be downloaded from 
Nddcb web site: (www.nddcb.gov.lk). y our application 
must be prepared in “A4” paper using both-sides and with 
copies of certificates attached. State the post applied on the 
left hand top corner of the envelope. applicants who are 
employed in Government/ corporations/ statutory boards 
should apply their applications through relevant heads of 
institutions/ departments.
incomplete applications / applications without the 
original deposit slip and delayed applications will be 
rejected.
the decision of the National dangerous drugs control 
Board will be final.
 chairman,
 National dangerous drugs control board.
No. 383, kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.,
25th february, 2021.
02–746
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
424
 (c)   The acceptance of the candidate as being met with qualifications required to sit for the competitive 
examination for recruitment to the service will be made only if such candidate has completed all the 
relevant qualifications and the stipulated age limit in every respect as at 25th March 2021.  
02 . Age:
  i.  Minimum limit :- Not less than 21 years   
  ii.  Maximum limit :- Not more than 35 years 
   (accordingly, only those whose birthdays fall on or before 25.03.2000 and on or after 25.03.1986 can  
   apply)
 Note:
  i. No clergyman of any denomination will be allowed to sit for this examination.
03. Service Conditions :
 i.  salary - the consolidated salary scale of this Post is mentioned below.  as per the Public administration 
circular No.03/2016, the salary scale entitled to this post is MN 5 - Rs. 34 605-10 x 660-11 x 755-15 x 
930 – 63 460/-.  
 ii.  this post is permanent and subject to the policy decisions made by the government in due course with 
regard to the Pension.
 iii.  selected candidates shall be subjected to a probation period of three (03) years.
 IV .  Appointees are required to appear for a medical examination conducted by a Government Medical Officer 
to determine whether they are fit to work in any part of the island.
 V . appointees are bound to serve in any part of the island.
 Vi.  attention is also drawn to the conditions mentioned in the Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission No. 1589/30 and the general provisions relating to appointments to public service posts 
published at the beginning of paragraph 1 (iia) of this Gazette.
 Vii.  this post shall be governed by the provisions of the sri Lanka Valuation service Minute published in the 
Gazette Notification No. 2142/75 dated 27.09.2019.
04. Method of Recruitment : Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and a general interview.   
those who are eligible will be selected subsequent to subjecting a number of candidates equal to that of the candidates 
expected to be recruited, to a general interview on the order of merit of the aggregate marks of those candidates who have 
passed the written examination and no marks shall be allocated at the interview.   interview will be held only to verify the 
qualifications.  
     
05. examination Procedure :  the competitive examination for recruitment consists of 02 written question papers.   the 
details are given below : 
Subject 
No.
Name of the Question Paper Time Hours/ Minutes Minimum Marks to be 
Secured for a Pass
Maximum Marks
01 subject Related Question Paper,    
Part i
30 Minutes 40 100
02 subject Related Question Paper, 
Part ii  
1 1/2 hour 40 100
 (a)  subject Related Question Paper, Part 1 
  this paper will contain not more than 25 multiple choice questions pertaining to subjects expected to be 
covered in a bachelor of science degree in Estate Management and Valuation.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
425
 (b)  subject Related Question Paper, Part ii
  this paper will contain essay type and 
structural type questions inclusive of topics 
pertaining to subject areas expected to be 
covered in a bachelor of science degree in 
Estate Management and Valuation.
Note: the Examination shall be held in sinhala, 
tamil and English. the language medium of 
examination indicated initially shall not be 
allowed to change subsequently.   
 (i)  Marks will also be deducted for unclear 
handwriting and misspellings.
 (ii)  the commissioner-General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all persons who 
have applied for the examination.  the issuance 
of an admission card to a candidate does not 
necessarily mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
 (iii)  Method of evaluation :  candidates who get 
40% or more marks in each question paper in 
the competitive examination will be selected 
and a priority list will be prepared according to 
the total marks.  a number of candidates will be 
called for the general interview in proportion to 
the number of vacancies from the candidate who 
has obtained the highest marks among them.
06. Basis of Selection : candidates who have passed the 
written test and qualified in the interview will be selected for 
the post, subject to the number of vacancies.
(i)  Issuance of Results :
 the results sheet prepared in accordance with the 
marks obtained at the written test by the candidates 
who are eligible to be called for interview, will be 
notified to the Chief Valuer by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and the candidates who 
appeared at the examination shall also be notified 
of the results by the commissioner General of 
Examinations by publishing on the website or by 
post.
07. it is mandatory for every candidate to have completed 
all the qualifying examinations related to the post on or 
before the closing date of application.
08. Method of Application:- specimen application:
 (i) Published at the end of this notice.  the 
application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and 
should be perfected his/her handwriting. the 
application should be in the language medium 
in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination.  Each section of the application 
should be perfected by the applicant as 
instructed, and any sections that do not apply to 
him/her should be noted as "Not applicable".  
it should be kept in mind that leaving blank 
columns in the application may result in 
rejection.  (it should be specially noted that 
the application forms should be prepared in 
an a4 paper in the manner that titles 01 to 05 
appear on page one, 6-11 on page two and the 
rest on page three of the paper.  it is essential 
to mention the name of examination in English 
language as well, in applications prepared in 
both sinhala and tamil mediums.  it would 
be advisable to keep a copy of the perfected 
application.
  Closing Date of Applications: applications 
should be sent by registered post on or before 
March 25, 2021 to reach “The Commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations 
Examinations branch, department of 
Examinations, P.o box 1503, Palawatta, 
Battaramulla”  Applications received after the 
said date shall be rejected.  the top left corner 
of the envelope containing the application 
should clearly bear the name of the examination 
“Recruitment to the Post of Assistant Valuer of 
Class II Grade II”.
 examination Fees :
 iii.  the examination fee of Rs.750/- should be 
paid before the closing date of applications 
only at any Post/ Sub Post Office to be 
credited to Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination and 
the receipt obtained thus should be affixed 
in the relevant cage of the application form.  
Money orders or stamps are not accepted for 
examination fees. the fee is non-refundable 
and it shall not be paid back or transferred 
to pay any other examination fee, under any 
circumstances.  it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
426
 Applications of Candidates who are employed :
 iV .  applicants who are currently working 
in Government departments / boards 
/ corporations etc. should submit their 
applications through the head of the 
department or institution in which they 
are working.   candidates are requested to 
submit their applications to the heads of their 
departments in advance along with a request 
to send the application to the commissioner 
General of Examinations on or before March 
25, 2021.  applications should not be sent in 
the name of the chief Valuer or in the personal 
name of any other officer in the department.
  Even the applications submitted by the 
departments will be rejected if received after 
the due date.  applications of the applicants 
who are currently in the public service will be 
rejected unless the signature of the head of 
the relevant department / institution and the 
official seal are placed on the certification of 
the signatures of the applicants. 
Attestation of Applications :-
 (V)  the signature of an applicant who is currently 
in the public service should be certified by the 
Head of the relevant Department or an officer 
authorized to do so on his/her behalf.  
09. Admission to the examination :
 (i) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all persons in 
the prescribed age limit who have paid the 
due examination fees and sent the application 
perfected mentioning the language medium 
and placing the signature with the attestation 
and the certification of the Head of the 
department, if relevant, along with the receipt 
of the examination fee. A notification will be 
published in newspapers by the department of 
Examinations as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to candidates  if the admission 
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
such advertisement, steps should be taken to 
notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement.   The 
name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, address and identity card no should 
be mentioned when informing the department 
of Examinations  in case of applicants outside 
colombo, it will be more effective to send a 
letter of request to the fax number mentioned 
in the said advertisement furnishing a fax 
number to which the admission card should 
be sent.  it would be advisable to keep a copy 
of the application form and the receipt kept at 
applicant’s possession, copy of the receipt of 
examination fees and the receipt of registering 
the letter. 
Attestation of Admission Cards :-
 (ii) the signature of an applicant who is currently 
in the public service should be certified by 
the head of the relevant department or an 
officer authorized to do so on his/her behalf.  
the signatures of the other applicants must 
be attested by an authorized person. i.e. a 
Justice of Peace, attorney-at-Law,Notary 
Public,Principal of a Government school, 
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, 
A Staff Officer in a permanent post in the 
Public service, chief incumbent of a buddhist 
temple, or presiding priest in charge of any 
other religious place of worship, or hold a 
significant position in the clergy.
Admission to the examination :- 
 (iii) Each candidate appearing for the examination 
must get his or her signature attested on 
his/her admission card and appear for the 
examination at the designated examination 
center. a candidate presenting himself for 
the examination must produce his admission 
card to the supervisor of the Examination 
center.  a candidate who fails to produce his 
admission card will not be permitted to sit 
the examination.  
 (iV)  candidates will not be informed of the receipt 
of the application. candidates are subject 
to rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner of Examinations on conducting 
the examination and they are liable to be 
subject to a punishment imposed by him for 
breach of these rules.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
427
Note: The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Identity of Candidates:- a candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each subject he offers.   for this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted:-
 (a) National identity card  
 (b) a valid Passport
 (c)  a valid sri Lankan driving License
candidates who fail to submit the above documents will not be allowed to appear for the examination.
11. Furnishing False Information:- if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any 
stage prior to during or after the examination.  if it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that 
they are false, or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for dismissal from the service. candidates 
who do not meet the requirements mentioned in this notification will have their candidature canceled.
13. any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined on the discretion of the chief Valuer.
14 . In case an inconsistency among the matters in Sinhala, Tamil and English notifications, Sinhala notification shall 
come into force.
 P.d.d.s. MuthukuMarana,
 Government chief Valuer.
SpeciMen application
open coMpetitive exaMination for recruitMent to the poSt of aSSiStant v aluer of claSS ii grade ii in the 
category of field / office baSed officerS SegMent 2 in Sri lanka v aluation departMent - 2021 
N.b.–The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should clearly bear the words “Recruitment to the 
Post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade II in the category of Field / Office based Officers Segment 2 in Sri Lanka 
Valuation Department - 2021” and applications should be sent via registered post to reach the commissioner General 
of Examinations, organizations Examinations branch, department of Examinations, P.o box 1503,Palawatta, 
battaramulla. 
    (For Office Use Only)
Language medium of the examination
sinhala -2, tamil - 3, English - 4
(Write relevant number in the cage)
(1)  Name of the applicant:
  1.1 Name with initials at the end   :  ............................................................................................................................. 
  in English block capitals (Ex: siLV a, a.b.)
  1.2 Name in full : ......................................................................................................................................................... 
  (in English block capitals) 
  1.3 Name in full : .........................................................................................................................................................
   (in sinhala/ tamil)
(2)  Personal address: 
 in sinhala/ tamil:  ............................................................................................................................................................
 (any change in the address should be immediately informed)
 address to which the applications should be sent (in English block capitals): ............................................................

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
428
(3)  sex:  (Male - 0, femle - 1) 
   (Write relevant number in the cage)
(4)  National identity card No. : 
 
(5)  Mobile No. : 
(6) Marital status: (single - 1, Married -2)                      
 (Write relevant number in the cage) 
(7) Ethnicity; (sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, i.tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, other - 5)
 (Write relevant number in the cage) 
 (8)  date of birth : year  :                      Month :                             date :
 age as at the closing date of the applications:
          years :                        Months :                         days :
(9)   Please mention whether you are a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by Registration.
 (if by registration, please specify)
(10) Educational/ Professional Qualifications:
examination/ Degree effective Date University/ Institution Subjects
(11)  current and previous Professions (if any):
Post From To Annual Salary
(12)  have you ever been dismissed from a post in the Public service?
 (if yes, please specify)
(13)  are there any departmental disciplinary inquiries against you (if already employed in the public service)? 
(14)  have you ever been convicted guilty at any court of Law?
(15)  Examination Fee (The original of the receipt should be affixed)
  i. Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which the Fee was paid: .....................................................................
  ii. amount Paid: .......................................
  iii. date of Payment: .......................................
  iv. Receipt No: ...................................
Affix the Original of the Receipt so as not to get detached.  (Keep a Photocopy at your Custody)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
429
 (16)   statement by the applicant :
i hereby certify that all the information provided by me in this application is true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment and to dismissal from 
service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
i also agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations with 
regard to the conducting and issuing results of this examination.
 .................................................,
 signature of the applicant.
date :……………….............   
Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant (Please delete the words inappropriate) 
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss.  ....................................................................................... (full Name)who 
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .....................
...........2021 and further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the applications.   
 ..................................................,
 signature of the attester.
Name of the attester............................................................... 
Post : ..................................................................................... 
address  : ............................................................................. 
(Place the Official Frank)
date………………. 
Recommendation of the Head of the Institution, if the applicant is serving at a Public/ Provincial Public Service/Government 
Corporation :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss.  ....................................................................................... who submits this 
application is known to me personally and that he/she is serving at ............................................... (Ministry/ department/ 
Government corporation) and has not been subjected to any disciplinary inquiry and that he/she has paid the prescribed 
examination fees and affixed the receipt herein, and signed this application in my presence on ...............2021.  (I also agree to 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conducting 
and issuing results of this examination.)
In the event the officer is selected to be appointed to a Post of Assistant Valuer, Grade II of Class II of Field / Office 
based Officers Segment 2, he/ she can be released from the service at this Department/ Corporation.  
 ..................................................,
 signature of the head of the institution.
full Name of the head of the institution :................................................ 
Post: ........................................................................................................ 
Office Address: ....................................................................................... 
(Place the Official Frank)
date………………......... 
02–732

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
430
STATE mINISTRy Of SkILLS 
DEvELOPmENT, vOCATIONAL EDuCATION, 
RESEARCh AND INNOvATIONS
National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
Authority Institute of Engineering 
Technology - katunayake
REcRuitMENt of sPEciaL aPPRENticEs iN 
ENGiNEERiNG sciENcEs foR NatioNaL 
diPLoMa iN ENGiNEERiNG sciENcEs (NdEs) 
couRsE - 2020/2021 batch
aPPLicatioNs are invited from qualified citizens of Sri 
Lanka for the competitive examination to recruit special 
apprentices in Engineering sciences for National diploma 
in Engineering sciences (NdEs) course of studies at the 
institute of Engineering technology (iEt), katunayake. on 
the basis of government policy this course is being processed 
for converting upto the level of a degree. this examination 
will be held in end of June 2021 by the commissioner General 
of Examination under the regulations of National apprentice 
& industrial training authority. all candidates are bound 
to act in conformity with the rules and regulations of the 
commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and on releasing results. if any candidates who 
violate any of these rules are liable to be punished by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
1. eligibility :
1.1  Educational Qualifications :
 three passes (03) Passes at the GcE (a/L) in 
combined Mathematics, Physics & chemistry in 
one sitting.
 and
 for all courses, candidates should have obtained 
a credit pass for English at the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in not more than three attempts.
1.2  Age : not under 18 years and not more than 25 
years as on 30.09.2021.
 the candidates, whose date of birth fall on the 
date of 30.09.2003 or before and on 30.09.1996 
or after, are only qualified to apply. 
N.B. : applicants below 20 years of age will be 
given preference for admission to the Marine 
Engineering.
 
 2. Selection Criteria :
2.1 all applicants who have the minimum entry 
qualifications as stated in para 1.1 and within the 
age limit mentioned in para 1.2 above, would be 
eligible. selections will be done as given below.
 Written Test :
2.2 those candidates who have fulfilled the basic 
qualifications will be required to sit for a  written 
aptitude test in the English medium.
 there will be two multiple choice question papers 
as mentioned below:
1. General knowledge 01 hour 100 marks
2. t echnical and 01 hour 100 marks
 General test
 y our knowledge will be tested under the headings 
of civil engineering, electrical engineering, 
mechanical engineering, combined maths and 
information technology of G.c.E. (a/L).
2.3  the written test will be held in below mentioned 
places and 02 examination  centres nearest to 
you should be mentioned in the application form. 
(The final decision belongs to the Department of 
Examinations)
 01 colombo 06 kurunegala
 02 Galle 07 Jaffna
 03 Ratnapura 08 batticaloa
 04 kandy 09 anuradhapura
 05 badulla
*  (All the candidates those who are qualified for the 
written test will be notified by the  Department of 
Examinations before two weeks.)
2.4  Interview :-
 the applicants will be called for an interview based 
on the highest marks of the written test.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
431
2.5 Method of selection :- 
Recommended marks for written test 60%
Recommended marks for Z-core 20%
Recommended marks for interview 20%
 Recommended marks for the interview will be given 
as per below:-
Marks for external activities of subject 10%
Marks for the preparation to face the 
interview and  the arrangements of 
attendance.
10%
 there will 500 apprentices be selected for the course 
on the basis of obtaining highest marks.
2.6  Those who are selected for the Course will have 
to appear for a medical test at their own expenses 
before the registration. (Those who are selected 
for Marine Engineering Course will have to 
appear again for a special medical test at their 
own expenses after the registration).
2.7  When appearing for the examination, all candidates 
should produce their identity cards in order to prove 
their identification at every paper they sit. Any of 
the following documents will be accepted for this 
examination.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid foreign travel passport
 iii. Valid sri Lankan driving License
 the candidates should uncover their face and two 
ears in order to prove their identity when entering 
the examination hall. if they fail to do so they will 
not be permitted to enter. yet, all the candidates 
should be in the examination hall without covering 
their face and two ears from the time of entrance 
upto the time of exit from the hall.
2.8 issuing an admission card to a candidate, should not 
be considered as he/she is qualified for the course 
or to make forward to the examination.
 3. Application procedure :
 
3.1  all applicants should pay Rs. 3000/= as an 
examination fee and for the expenditure 
of  administration when they forward their 
applications. (this amount is considered as non 
-refundable.)
 3.2 the Pay-in-slip needs to be duly perfected with 
the following:
 (i)   branch code and account No: 276-1-001-
8-6351396.
 (ii)  credit instruction: to the credit of institute 
of Engineering technology students welfare 
account No. 276-1-001-8-6351396 at 
People’s bank, katunayake.
 (iii)  Name & the address of the applicant.
N.B.- this payment can be made to the People’s 
bank branch any where in the island.
3.3  Applications & additional information can be 
obtained from IET web site “www.iet.edu.lk”
3.4  Duly filled application forms along with the Pay 
In-Slip duly signed by an Authorized officer of the 
bank, should be scanned. and send to the e-mail 
address of ‘‘apply 2021@ietonline.edu.lk” on 
or before 25th March 2021. Late applications or 
applications forwarded by hand will be rejected 
without any notices.
3.5 Those who are following Diploma Course, in a 
government higher educational institute, equal 
to the National Diploma in Engineering Science 
or a full time course of Degree in Government 
University are not eligible to apply.
3.6 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
 4. Courses conducted in the Institute are as follows:
4.1 civil Engineering sector
 1. civil - building & structural Engineering.
 2. civil - highway & Railway Engineering.
 3. civil - Water & Environmental Engineering.
4.2 Electrical and Electronic Engineering sector .
4.  Electrical and Electronics - Network and 
communication Engineering.
5.  Electrical and Electronic  - Electrical Power 
Engineering.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
432
4.3 Mechanical Engineering sector
6. Mechanical - automotive Engineering
7. Mechanical - Mechanical (production) 
Engineering
8. Mechanical - Marine Engineering.
9. Mechanical - building services Engineering
* “The Marine Engineering Course of IET 
is certified for iso 9001:2015 quality 
Management system.
*  in respect of Marine Engineering c ourse, 
the i nstitute is engaged in providing 
academic instructions and industrial 
training Programmes to meet the mandatory 
requirements for knowledge, understanding 
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at the 
operational level related with stcW -95, 
including its amendments and model course 
of 7.04.
5. Details of the Duration of Training : this is a four-
year course. the 24 Month theoratical instruction course is 
sandwiched with the Practical training as given below.
first academic year at iEt - 12 Months
basic industrial training at outstation 
 industrial institute  - 12 Months
final theoratical instruction 
 Programme at iEt  - 12 Months
final industrial training in outstation - 12 Months
instruction Programmes consist of theoretical instructions 
& Laboratory Practicals conducted at institute of Engineering 
technology. industrial training Programmes are conducted at 
recognized industrial Establishments. an English course will 
be conducted at the beginning of the course. Participation in 
this programme is compulsory for all selected apprentices.
6. Medium of Instruction: English.
 
7. Contract of Apprenticeship :
7.1  Each selected candidate is required to enter into 
a contract with the training establishment, which 
consists of mutual obligations on both the training 
establishment and the apprentice.
7.2  there is no guarantee of employment at the end of 
the training period.
7.3  All the students registered for the above courses, 
should maintain a minimum requirement of 
attendance specified by the Institute for each 
subject during the course period. Those who fail 
to meet this requirement are not allowed to sit 
for the examinations and evaluations and they 
have to leave the course.
8. Registration of Apprentices :
8.1 at the time of registration, students should pay a 
sum of Rs. 5000/-, as a refundable deposit. it will 
be refunded only at the successfully completion 
of the course.
 all selected applicants will have to make a non 
refundable payment of Rs. 2,500/- including  
Rs. 500/- as a registration fee and Rs. 2000/- for 
library fund of iEt and stationery activities of the 
students. yet, the charge of examining the results 
of G.c.E. (o/L) and G.c.E. (a/L) should be paid 
by the candidates.
8.2  Samurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the 
refundable deposit, on submission of original 
Samurdhi card with a certified letter from Grama 
Niladhari approved by divisional secretary.
 9. Award of Certificates : The Certificate of National 
diploma in Engineering sciences will be awarded on 
successful  completion of all examinations, evaluations and 
on clearance of all obligations.
10. the institute of Engineering technology will not be 
responsible for any delay of applications.      
11.  In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English texts, Sinhala text will prevail.
 chairman,
 National apprentice & 
 industrial training authority.
No. 971, sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha,
Welikada, 
Rajagiriya.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
433
.
foR officE usE  foR officE usE
(application No.)  (index No.)
national apprentice and induStrial training authority inStitute of engineering technology – katunayake
application for the recruitMent of Special apprenticeS in engineering for national diploMa in 
engineering ScienceS (ndeS) courSe – 2020/2021 batch
  select two centers nearest to you from the exam centres below.
 01 colombo 06 kurunegala
 02 Galle 07 Jaffna
 03 Ratnapura 08 batticaloa
 04 kandy 09anuradhapura
 05 badulla
01. Name in full:
 (fill in block letters)
 (Eg.  aRachchiLaGE sasEN chaMaRa fERNaNdo)
02.   Name with initials:
 (Eg. a.s.c. fERNaNdo)
03. address:
 (fill in block letters)
04.   telephone No.: Mobile:                                                         Residence : 
05.  E-mail address:
06. district:
07. divisional  secretariat:
08. Grama Niladhari division:     division Number :
09. date of birth:
  (i) date :  Month :    y ear :
  (ii) age as at 30/09/2021:  Months :  y ears :
 
10. sex:    Male  –  0
   female  –  1  (Write the relevant number inside the cage.)
Preference No. of the exam centre
1
2

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
434
11. Nic No. :
12. Nationality :
13. Educational Qualification:     Index No.              Year 
  (i) G.c.E. (o/L)
S.No. Subject Grade
1 Religion
2 first Language
3 second  Language ^ English&
4 science
5 Mathematics
6 history
7
8
9
  Performance in English language at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination:      a       or        b    or       c
          (tick the relevant box.)
   (ii) Result of G.c.E. (a/L) Examination (subjects Passed in one sitting)
year
index No.
Z-score Marks
Medium
subject combined 
Mathematics Physics chemistry English common General test 
marks
Grade
   (iii) Number of sittings for G.c.E. (a/L) Examination:
15. Order of preference of fields of specialization: (Mark from 1 to 9 based on order of preference)
Serial No. Field Code Preferences
1 civil - building & structural Engineering cb
2 civil - highway & Railway Engineering ch
3 civil - Water & Environmental Engineering cW
4 Electrical – Network & communication Engineering EN
5 Electrical - Electrical Power Engineering EP
Attempt Year Index No.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
435
Serial No. Field Code Preferences
6 Mechanical - automotive Engineering Ma
7 Mechanical - Production Engineering MP
8 Mechanical - Marine Engineering MM
9 Mechanical – building services Engineering Mb
I do hereby certify that the information furnished above is true and correct and confirm to the qualifications laid 
in the advertisement and i have not registered for full time degree or diploma in a university or any other Government 
academic institutions. i hereby state that i am prepared to accept discontinuance from the training programme without any 
claim for compensation, if any of the above information is found to be false or inaccurate even after the commencement of 
the training programme. further, i do agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting the Examination and on releasing results.
........................................ .............................................
date signature of applicant.
(Please affix the scanned copy of payment receipt for Rs.3000.00)
For office use only
age Limit Within/Exceeded
Basic Qualification adequate/inadequate
applications complete/incomplete
accepted/Rejected
……………
checked by
……………
approved by
NATIONAL  APPRENTICE AND INDuSTRIAL TRAINING AuThORITy
INSTITuTE Of ENGINEERING TEChNOLOGy - kATuNAyAkE
Recruitment of special apprentices in Engineering  for National diploma in Engineering sciences
 (NdEs) course - 2020/2021 batch
Instructions for Completing the Application form
01. the application should be in accordance with the  Gazette notification  and www.iet.edu.lk  web site. all other 
applications will be rejected.
02. Applications of the applicants, who do not possess the required qualifications, as mentioned in the Gazette 
notification will be rejected.
03.  (a) the applicant should have to pay Rs. 3000.00 to any branch of People's bank and scanned copy of pay - in - 
slip should be affixed in the space provided in the application.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.02.2021
436
  (b) the Pay - in - slip should contain the following compulsory information.
 (i) branch Code and Account No. 276-1-001-8-6351396
 (ii) Credit Instruction - to the credit of institute of Engineering technology student welfare account  
No. 276-1-001-8-6351396 at People's bank, katunayake.
 (iii) Name and the address of the applicant.
 (04)  Duly filled application form, should be sent to '' apply2021@ietonline.edu.lk" using your permanent e-mail 
address before 25th march 2021. Late applications will be rejected.
   Note : all the future communication will be done with you, through your  permanent e-mail address.
 (05)  subject for the email should be your Nic number.
  ex. student name a. b. c. Perera.
  Nic 19971782003
  Nic 971782003
  y our email subject should be as-   Nic 19971782003
      Nic 971782003
N. B. :   all information asked in the application form should be completed and no blank space should be left.
             incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
02-726
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNka.