

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.04.2009
591
591
wxl 1"599 _ 2009 wfm%a,a 24 jeks isl=rdod _ 2009'04'24
No. 1,599 – FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 594
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 594
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such Notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th April, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th April,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 1,598 of 17.04.2009 was not published.
Note.- (i) Global Humanitarian Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  November, 21st 2008.
(ii) Mahindananda Aluthgamage Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  December, 05th 2008.
(iii) Civil Procedure Code (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  January, 02nd 2009.
B 2 - B 080007

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.04.2009
592
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.04.2009
593
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.04.2009
594
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
Posts  of Registrars – Marriages,  Births and Deaths - Rathnapura  District
APPLICATIONS are invited  for the  posts  of Registrars of Marriages, Births  and  Deaths in the  Divisions  set  out in the Sc hedule
hereto.
02. Applicants should  be permanent  residents of the said  Births, Deaths  and Marriages Registration  Divisions and should
be entitled  to properties and have  acquired  sufficient  interest and influence in the area.
03. Both  Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should  be not  less than 21 years and not more  than 65 years  of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other  qualifications etc. could  be obtained from  the notices exhibited  in public  pla ces
such  as District Secretariats, Land  and District  Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama  Niladhari Offices, Rural Development
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the  Division.
07. Application forms  are obtainable from  the offices  of District Secretaries  (Government  Agents) and Land  and District
Registries. Applications  should  be sent  by registered  post  to the  address given  in the  Schedule on or before  25th May 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General Department,
No. 234/A-3, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th March 2009.
Schedule
District Divisional Post & Division for  which Address to which
Secretariat applications are called Applications  should
Division Be sent
Ratnapura Kiriella Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths in District  Secretary/
Dodampe Division  and Marriages Additional Registrar
(Kandyan and General) Kuruwita General, District Secretariat
Korale Ratnapura.
04-516
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE  OF  ENGINEERING  TECHNOLOGY
(Former Technician Training Institute) - KATUNAYAKE
RECRUITMENT OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR NA TIONAL
DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE 2009 BA TCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit
Special Apprentices in Engineering for the 2009 batch in respect of
the above course of studies at the Institute of Engineering
Technology (Former Technician Training Institute), Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for Entry.— Candidates with
qualifications mentioned below are eligible to apply :
1.1 A Pass at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in
one sitting including a minimum of 03 credit passes for
Mathematics, Science and Language ;
and
1.2 Passes at the G.C.E. (A/L - New Syllabi) in Combined
Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry in one sitting.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.04.2009
595
2. Age.— Between 18 and 25 years as at 01.12.2009.
3. Duration and Course Schedule.— This is four years course,
wherein a 18 Months academic instruction Programme is sandwiched
with a 30 Months Industrial Training as given below : —
Basic Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 12 Months
General Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
General Industrial Training in Industry - 12 Months
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 06 Months
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical Instructions and
course works conducted at Institute of Engineering Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized
Industrial  Establishments.
Before the commencement of the Programme an intensive English
course 1 Hrs will be conducted. Participation of all the selected
apprentices is compulsury for the intensive English course.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows :—
A. Civil Engineering Sector–
1. Building and Structural Engineering
2. Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Water and Environmental Engineering
B. Electrical Engineering Sector–
4. Electronics Engineering
5. Electrical Power Engineering
6. Telecommunication Engineering
C. Mechanical Engineering Sector–
7. Mechanical (Automotive) Engineering
8. Mechanical (General) Engineering
9. Marine Engineering
D. Computer Engineering Sector–
10. Computer Software Engineering
11. Computer Hardware and Networking Engineering.
(a) "The Quality Management System of
Marine Engineering (No. 09) Course of IET
is in accordance with the requirements of
ISO 9001 – 2000.
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course
the Institute is engaged in providing academic
instructions and industrial training
Programmes to meet the mandatory
requirements for knowledge, understanding
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at
the operational level related with STCW 95,
including its amendments and model course
7.04 of International Maritime Organization
(IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction.—  English.
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a contract
with the training establishment, which casts, mutual
obligations on both the training establishment and the
Apprentice. At the time of registration an apprentice
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5,000, refundable at the
completion of the course.
Those who will be leaving the programme during the
period of the course, the deposit will not be refunded.
6.2 In the event of industrial training the apprentices are
required to enter into a contract with the training
establishment.
6.3 There is no guarantee of employment at the end of the
training period.
6.4 All the students registered for the above courses should
maintain a minimum requirement of 80% attendance during
the course period. Those who fail to obtain this
requirement are not allowed to sit for the examinations
and they have to leave the present batch and continue
with the subsequent batch.
7. Award of Certificates.—  National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of
the course.
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry qualifications
as stated in para. 1 within the age limit mentioned in para.
2 above would be eligible. Selections will be done as given
below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible as per 8.1 will be
required to sit for a written aptitude test in English
medium. (Eligible candidates will be informed in advance).
8.3 An interview will be held to select the candidates for
different fields/specializations based on preferences in
respect of fields/specializations and order of merit at the
aptitude test.
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course
will have to appear for a medical test at their own expense
prior to registration.
9. Applications :
9.1 Applications and additional information can be obtained
from NDES web site : (
www.iet.edu.lk)
9.2 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology , Temple Road,
Katunayake on payment of Rs. 50 in cash, or by post by

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.04.2009
596
sending a money order for Rs. 50 with a self-addressed
stamped envelope size 9"x4" to "Registrar, Institute of
Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake"
(Telephone : 011-2252833 ; 011-2252834) up to 16th
June 2009. The above Money Orders in respect should
be drawn in favour of the Accountant, Institute of
Engineering Technology, payable at Katunayake Post
Office.
9.3 Application forms could be obtained from the following
offices up to 16th June 2009 on payment of Rs. 50 in
cash.
(i) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura
Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya (Telephone  :
011-2863680, 011-2867435).
(ii) Apprenticeship Training Institute, No. 581, Galle
Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa
(Telephone : 011-2647393, 011-2641092).
(iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute, No. 07,
Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha, Orugodawatta,
Wellampitiya (Telephone :  011-2572977,
011-2532182).
(iv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Uva Province, No. 288, Kumarasinghe
Mawatha, Passara Road, Badulla (Telephone :
055-2222608).
(v) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Sabaragamuwa Province, New Colombo
Road, School Lane, New Town, Ratnapura
(Telephone : 045-2228667).
(vi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Southern Province, No. 27A, Open
University Road, Nupe, Matara (Telephone :
041-2226985).
(vii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Central Province, No. 108/2B,
Thiwankabodhi Mawatha, Mulgampola, Kandy
(Telephone : 081-2201918).
(viii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, North Central Province, Airport Road,
Anuradhapura (Telephone : 025-2223178).
(ix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, North Western Province, Near National
Youth Services Council, Negombo Road,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala (Telephone :
037-2221865/037-2223789).
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Northern Province, 06, Kovil Road,
Jaffna (Telephone : 021-2222383).
(xi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Eastern Province, No. 07, G . S. Lane,
Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai (Telephone :  067-
2229357).
(xii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Western Province, No. 242, Havelock
Road, Colombo 05 (Telephone : 011-2597671-2 ;
011-2587258).
District Offices :
(i) Telecommunication and Computer Tranining Centre,
National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Beruwala (Telephone :  034-2279710).
(ii) National Apprentice Industrial Training Authority,
No. 56, Ananda Mawatha, Gampaha (Telephone :
033-2227501).
(iii) District Office (Puttlam), Computer apprenticeship
Training Centre, Ihalagama, Madampe (Telephone :
032-2247776).
(iv) Computer Apprenticeship T raining Centre, A-6,
Mahaweli Quarters, New Town, Polonnaruwa
(Telephone : 027-2223023).
(v) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre,
A/G Office, Monaragala  (Telephone : 055-2276504).
(vi) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 1/6,
Ihala Wewa Road, Nuwara Eliya (Telephone :
071-4408182).
(vii) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 132,
Malwatta Road, Matale (Telephone : 066-2230355).
(viii) District Office Kegalle, National Apprentice &
Industrial Training Authority, 450 - A, Kandy Road,
Meepitiya, Kegalla (Telephone : 035-2223127).
(ix) Sri Saranankara Apprenticeship Training Institute,
Udawatta, Baddegama (Telephone : 091-5677388).
(x) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 14,
Indipokunagoda Road, Tangalle (Telephone :
047-2241512).
(xi) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 6,
G . S. Lane, Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai (Telephone :
067-2229357).
(xii) Tem : NAITA Computer Apprenticeship Training
Centre, 33/1, Main Street, Trincomalee (Telephone :
026-2222891).
(xiii) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, 16/1, New
Kalmunai Road, Batticaloa (Telephone : 071-6894457).
(xiv) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, 27/4/4,
Paddanichchipuliyankulam, Mannar Road, Vavuniya
(Telephone : 024-2220442).
(xv) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, 25, Main
Road, Pettah, Mannar.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.04.2009
597
9.4 All applicants should pay Rs. 300 as per the details (9.5)
to any branch of people's Bank and paying slip need to
be attached to the application, when forwarding the
application.
9.5 The Pay-in-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the
following :—
(i) Branch Code and Account No. 174-100170347379
(ii) Credit Instruction :  To the credit of National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
Collection Account No. 174-100170347379 at
People's Bank, Nugegoda.
(iii) Name and the Address of the Applicant.
9.6 Duly filled application form, should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director/Principal, Institute
of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake
along with the Pay-in-Slip duly signed by an Authorized
Officer of the Bank, on or before 20th June, 2009 Late
applications or applications forwarded by, by hand will
not be accepted.
PRINTED A T THE DEPATMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
9.7 Those who have followed or are following Diploma or
Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government
Technical Institute or University are not eligible to apply.
9.8 Originals or copies of certificates should not be sent along
with the application.
9.9 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology (IET) will not
consider or be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in
the mail. Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their
applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman.
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority,
No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
04-561