

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'18
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.04.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2119$12 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'04'18
No. 2119/12 -  THURSDAY  APRIL  18,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  4491— 67  (04/2019)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
WESTERN   PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
I, Kajiton Lalith Wanigaratne, Minister of Roads, Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade, Housing and
Constructions, Estate Infrastucture Facilities, Industries and Rural Development of Western Province hereby announce
under the powers vested in me by Section No. 30 of Western Provincial Road Passenger Carriage Service Statute No. 01
of 1992, revised by Western Province Provincial Council Road Passenger Carriage Service Statute No. 03 of 2007, the
enactment of the following rules relating to the new transport system named as “Sahasara” introduced by the Passenger
Transport Services Authority of Western Province.
K
AJITON  L ALITH  W ANIGARA TNE,
Minister of Roads, Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade,
Housing and Constructions, Estate Infrastucture Facilities,
Industries and Rural Development,
Western Province.
Ministry of Roads, Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade,
Housing and Constructions, Estate Infrastucture Facilities,
Industries and Rural Development,
9th Floor, No. 204,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th April, 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'18
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.04.2019
2A
Above said rules,
1. These rules are named as the rules of the new transport system “Sahasara” of the Passenger Transport Services
Authority of Western Province.
2. (i) Passenger Transport Services Authority of Western Province should identify operational areas through one
route or group of routes and announce them within 36 months from the date of the Minister’s order ;
(ii) A manager should be appointed to administrate the announced operational area according to the new
system ;
(iii) An operational Control Center should be established for each and every announced operational area or a
group of routes ;
(iv) The road/roads wherein these rules are to be implemented should be published through Gazettes and
newspapers prior to the implementation of these rules.
3. (i) Route permit holders should provide passenger transport services in their route or routes within the date of
the operational areas announced or time period specified by the Passenger Transport Authority of the
Western Province under the administration of the manager appointed according to 2(ii) by the Passenger
Transport Services Authority and buses should operate according to the timetables, regulations and service
standards prescribed from time to time by the manager under the supervision of the Passenger Transport
Services Authority.
(ii) All income earned on passenger and goods transport through electronic ticket machines and income earned
without an electronic machine due to a technical failure and all other income earned should be deposited in
a bank approved by the Western Provincial Passenger Transport Services Authority which is accepted by
the Central Bank in an account named “Western Province Passenger Transport Services Authority”.
(iii) Only the buses that comprise Western Province Passenger Transport Services Authority approved electronic
ticket machines with GPS, CCTV and GPRS technology should be given permission to passenger
transportation.
(iv) Except in a case of a technical failure the passenger transportation charges should always be collected
through electronic cards.
(v) A complete control unit should be opened and maintained to obtain data and information from electronic
devices fixed on buses and the data should be captured, safe guarded and used for the efficiency of the bus
service.
(vi) The Western Province Passenger Transport Services Authority should announce the amount of money that
will be paid for one kilo meter to owners of each route or group of routes, the profit of each route and by
the quality of the service provided by them from time to time.
(vii) Bus owners who are forwarding documents to prove that they are contributing properly for employees
through Employee Trust Fund should be given the permission for passenger transports.
(viii) Only buses proven that they are operated properly in a route or a group of routes for 02 months after fixing
electronic devices should be included in the “Sahasara” operation system.
(ix) Bus reservations should be branded as “Sahasara”

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'18
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.04.2019
(x) Management of the Bus Control Unit should be carried out by the Passenger Transport Services Authority
or a bus service manager approved by the Authority.
(xi) The Passenger Transport Services Authority should appoint investigation groups and transfer them the
required authority to investigate the efficiency of the transport services and proper bus transactions.
(xii) A suitable unit under the authority should be established to carry out and efficient public compliant
management.
(xiii) Suitable incentives should be provided to promote using electronic payament cards.
4. The orders cited in 2 and 3 should immediately be implemented within all the routes of the Western Province
soon after from the date of the publication of the Gazette Notification.
5. The Passenger Transport Services Authority owns full authority of maintaining service quality and passenger
comfort and all decisions taken to introduce new services.
6. (i) Passenger Transport Services Authority should carry out an operational area for technical and financial
audits by appointing qualified audit officers.
(ii) Should provide facilities to bus permit owners to check these audit reports when required.
(iii) These annual audit reports should be forwarded to the Provincial Council through subject Minister.
05 - 77
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.