

<!-- page 1 -->

41 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .01.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.01.2007
41
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 43
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd February, 2007, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 19th January, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,482 _ 2007 °¾ÉåÖ  26 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .01.26
No. 1,482 – FRIDAY , JANUARY  26, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,481 of 19.01.2007 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .01.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.01.2007
42
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

43 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .01.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.01.2007
EXAMINATION   FOR    PROMOTION    OF
OFFICERS    IN    CLASS   II   OF PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT     ASSISTANTS’     SERVICE    TO
CLASS I  -2007
1.0 It is hereby notified that, the qualifying examination for
promotion of officers in Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service to Class I will be held in the three
languages i. e. Sinhala, Tamil and English languages by
the Commissioner General of Examination on May 2007.
2.0 Examination for promotion of officers in Class II of public
Management Assistants’ Service to Class I will be held
at the centers in Colombo, Galle, Kandy, Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Matara, Kurunegala, Ratnapura, Badulla and
Anuradhapura. The towns and their numbers are given
below :
Town Number of the Town
Colombo 01
Galle 02
Kandy 03
Jaffna 04
Batticaloa 05
Matara 06
Kurunegala 07
Ratnapura 08
Badulla 09
Anuradhapura 10
Any centre without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled.
3.0 (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examination and candidates are bound by the
rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect of
holding this examination.
(ii) A set of rules and regulations for the candidate is published,
separately in the Gazette Notification. Any candidate
who violates these rules and regulations will be liable to a
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examination.
4.0 Candidates are required to satisfy following qualifications to sit
the examination.
(i) Should be an officer who has completed an active service
of ten years (10) in Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service and a satisfactory service of five (05)
years as at the closing date of application.
(ii)Should have passed the efficiency bar examination held
for officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants’
Service.
Note.- The date of the examination will be reckoned as the date on
which the candidate who has passed the examination qualification
for promotion to Class I of the service.
However, any candidate who passes the examination without
possessing above qualifications will be treated as disqualified for
promotion to Class I.
5.0 Scheme of Examination.- Candidates should sit an written
examination consisting of following subjects.
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishment Procedure 100 1 1/2 hours
(ii)Public Financial Management 100 1 1/2 hours
(iii)Case Study 100 01 hour
(iv) General Paper 100 01 hour
Total 400
Establishment Procedure. - It is expected to test the practical
knowledge of the candidate on matters containing in volume I and II
of the Establishment Code.
Public Finance Management :
(a) Practical knowledge on financial regulations ;
(b) Basic knowledge on auditing ;
(c) Basic bank practice ;
(d) Basic knowledge on store keeping.
Case Study. - Candidates are required to answer a multiple choice/
essay type paper designed to analyze measures to be taken to a
problem relating to office administration.
General paper. - It is expected to test the general knowledge of
the candidates on current affairs both local and international.
Note :
(i) Candidates should answer these papers in the language medium
in which they sat the competitive examination for recruitment
to the service. Those who have been recruited to the service
without sitting a competitive examination should answer the
papers in the same language medium in which they qualified
for recruitment.
(ii)Candidate should score minimum marks of 40% in each
subject and aggregate of 160 or more to pass the examination.
(iii)Model question papers related to the subjects of this
examination will be published in the web site of Ministry of
Public Administration and Home Affairs, in due course. (Web
site address : www.pubad.gov.lk)
6.0 Commissioner General of Examination will issue results of
the examination to the Director General of Combined Services.
Accordingly, names of successful candidates will be published in the
Gazette Notification of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .01.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.01.2007
44
07. Applications should be in the form of the specimen appended
to this notification and should be prepared by the candidate him/her
self. Application prepared by the candidate should be sent by
registered post to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Sri Lanka
Examinations Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla so as to reach
him on or before 2nd March, 2007.
A certificate to prove the satisfactory service of the officer should
be included to the application. The respective head of Department
should see to that every application has been perfected accurately
each and every way, and the service certificate has been duly signed
by him. The top left corner of the envelop containing the application
should bear clearly the name of the examination. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
08. Identification of Candidates.- Candidates are required to prove
their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose any one of
the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of Perons.
(ii) A valid passport
Candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any one of the
above can be cancelled by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
at his discretion.
09. Applications.- Application form should be prepared on a
paper of A4 size including numbers from 01 to 02 on the front side
of the paper. Application form may be prepared in a typewriter but
should strictly be filled correctly and clearly in candidates’ own
handwriting.
Candidates who are sitting this examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, at consequent sittings,
candidates are required to paste stamps to the value of Rs. 90. on the
application for each sitting, and to cancel duly them by placing
signature and date. Under no circumstances, this fee will be refunded
and transfer of fees to another examination will not be allowed.
The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission
cards along with the time table to all candidates who have submitted
applications. Candidates who sit the examination should surrender
their admission card in which his/her signature has been duly attested
to the supervisor. Candidates will not be permitted to sit the
examination without admission cards. A candidate who does not
receive his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the day
of examination, should at once notify the Commissioner General of
Examination, Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Sri
Lanka Examination Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla (Telegrahic
address  “Exams” Battaramulla) with the following particulars.
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii)Address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, Registration number and the
Post Office.
10. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to the
candidates who are issued admission cards by the Commissioner
General of Examinations to present themselves at the examination.
Travelling expenses will not be paid in this respect.
11. For the purpose of the official language policy, all the
candidates are required to prepare and perfect their own application
in the official language.
12. Any matter which does full under this examination notice,
will be decided by the Director General of Combined Services and
his decision shall be the final.
A. N
OBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
10th January, 2007,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For Office use only)
E
XAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  OFFICERS  IN CLASS  II OF  PUBLIC
M ANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS ’ SERVICE  TO  CLASS  I - 2007
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr/Mrs/Miss :————.
(in English block capitals)
eg. SILV A A. B
1.2 Name with Initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by Initials :————.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.4 Name denoted by Initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.5 Have you changed your name after entry to Public Service,
if so, indicate the previous name :————.
1.6 Place of work and Address
1.6.1 Name and the Address of Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In English Block Letters)
1.6.2 Name and the Address of Office/Department/
Institute :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.7 National Identity Card No :
1.8 Town in which you wish to sit the examination and its
number :
Town                                  Town Number
(indicate the town as per the paragraph 2.0 of the Gazette
notification and indicate the relevant town number in the
cage. It is not be allowed to change subsequently)

<!-- page 5 -->

45 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .01.26
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.01.2007
1.9 Language medium in which you sit for examination
Sinhala-2            Tamil-3              English 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. It is not allowed
to change subsequently)
1.10 Sex :
Female - 1              Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.11 Date of Birth :  Year                    Month          Date
2.1 Present Post
2.1 Post :————.
2.2 Number and the date of the Appointment Letter :——.
2.3 Date of entry to Class II of the above service  :——.
Year                                Month                    Date
2.4 Have you earned all increments during the period of your
service ? if not, give particulars :————.
2.5 If you have suffered any punishment whatsoever state
particulars in brief :————.
2.6 If you have been released for service in a corporation or
any Statutory Board furnish such particulars :———.
2.7 Have you availed no pay leave for employment abroad or
any other purpose, furnish such particulars :————.
3.0
3.1 Indicate whether you are sitting the examination for the
first time:————.
3.2 If not, value of the stamps (affixed):————.
3.3 Stamp Cage
If you are not sitting the examination for the first time,
affix Rs. 90 value stamps here.
4.0  Declaration of candidate
I do hereby declare that,
(i) The above particulars furnished by me are true and correct
to my knowledge and faith and,
(ii) I am a officer in Class II of Public Management Assistants’
Service and I have been appointed to Class II of Public
Management Assistants’ Service on ………and………
(iii) I have completed a 10 years active period of service as at
………and 5 years satisfactory period of the service on
that date and ;
(iv) I am sitting the examination for the first time/prescribed
amount stamps as examination fee have been affixed.
I am also aware that any particulars contained herein are
fund to be false and incorrect, I am liable to disciplinary action
being taken against me. I agree to obey the regulations of this
examination.
 :————.
Signature of the Candidate.
(See the foot note)
Date :————.
Note. (1) Period of service in Class II/IIA of General Clerical
Service or its parallel Services before absorbed them to the Public
Management Assistants’ Service should be taken into to account
when computing the period of service in Class II of Public
Management Assistants’ Service.
(ii) The applicants should sign before the relevant Head of
Department or an officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
Attestation of the Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs/Miss …………………………serves
at my office is personally known to me and the he/she signed before
me on ……………………………….
 :————.
Signature of the person attesting.
Name :————,
Designation :————,
Address :————,
Date :————.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that,
(i) Mr/ Mrs/Miss ………has completed a 10 years period in
Class II of Pubic Management Assistants’ Service as at
………and,
He/She has fulfilled the qualifications required for the
examination as per the notification published in the Gazette
of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on………
(ii)Number of the appointment letter to Class II is ………
(indicate number of the appointment letter) as per his/her
personal file and,
(iii)The particulars furnished above chapter 1.0 to 4.0 by him/
her have been checked and found to be correct and
(iv) He/She is sitting the examination for the first time/prescribed
stamps for the relevant examination has been affixed.
(Delete words inapplicable)
————.
Signature of Head of Department and Official Frank.
Name :————,
Designation :————,
Address :————,s
Date :————.
01-513
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.