

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2010
w;s úfYI
wxl 1646$16 - 2010 ud¾;= 23 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2010'03'23
No. 1646/16  -  TUESDAY ,    MARCH   23,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
 WESTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Aesthetic  Resort  Administrative  Authority  Statute  of  Western  Province  bearing  No. 01  of  2010
I, Upali Kodikara the Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs, Arts and Cultural Affairs, Cooperative
Development, Food Supplies and Distribution and Rural Development of the Western Province order to executive the
Statute No. 01 of the Administrative Authority of the Western Province Aesthetic Resort of the Western Province with
effect from 08th March, 2010. The statute has been signed by the Governor of the Western Province on  08th March, 2010
and it has already been approved by the Western Provincial Council on 09th February, 2010.
U
PALI KODIKARA,
Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,
 Arts and Cultural Affairs, Cooperative Development,
Food Supplies and Distribution and Rural Development of the Western Province.
Ministry of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs, Arts and Cultural Affairs,
Cooperative Development, Food Supplies and Distribution
and Rural Development of the Western Province,
No. 204, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
18th March, 2010.
AESTHETIC  RESORT  ADMINISTRATIVE  AUTHORITY  STATUTE  OF  WESTERN  PROVINCE
BEARING  No.  01  OF  2010
This is a statute for the establishment of an Aesthetic Resort Administrative Authority of Western
Province to provide provisions for the management and the maintenance of the Provincial
Aesthetic Resort ; for encouragement and promotion of performance, music, entertainment and enjoyable
activities, and also for all matters related or consequential thereto.
Be it passed by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka as follows :-
1A

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'23
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2010
2A
Short title and
the effective
date.
Aesthetic Resort.
Terms of Office
of Members.
01. This statute may be cited as the Aesthetic Resort Administrative Authority statute bearing
No. 01 of 2010 of the Western Province Provincial Council and shall come into effect on receipt of the
assent of the Governor of the Western Province.
P
ART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PROVINCIAL AESTHETIC RESORT ADMINISTRA TIVE AUTHORITY AND ITS CONSTITUTION
02. (1) The Provincial Aesthetic Resort Administrative Authority (hereinafter called as
“Administrative Authority”) is hereby established.
(2)  The Administrative Authority shall by the name assigned to it by Section 02 be body corporate
and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in  such name.
03. (1) The Administrative Authority shall consist of following members.
(a) Members to be appointed ex-officio ; Viz.
(i) The Secretary to the Ministry charged with the subject of culture or a senior officer
nominated by him.
(ii) D irector, Cultural Affairs of Western Provincial Council.
(b) Members to be appointed by the Minister in-charge of the subject of Cultural Affairs.
(hereinafter called “as Appointed Members”).
(I) A Senior Staff Officer of the Provincial Treasury to be appointed with the assent of
the Minister in-charge of the subject of Finance ;
(II) Three members who shall be persons possessing broad experience and recognized
competence in one or more such fields as Drama, Music, Dance, Cinematography.
(2)  Provided that any person is a Member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or any Local
Authority or was appointed to be a person of the similar capacity, such a person is unqualified to act as a
Member of the Administrative Authority.
(3)  A member appointed by the Minister in-charge of the subject of culture shall be the Chairman
of the Board.
04. (1) (a) A member appointed by the Minister may hold the term of office for three (03)
years except for the fact that the term of office expires with the death, the resignation
or the removal of the member. further, he is eligible to be re-appointed except for the
fact that he has been removed.
(b) A member appointed by the Minister may be removed from the Administrative
Authority and a new member may be appointed by the Minister for the rest of the
term of office of the former.
(c) In the event of the failure in  performing an office of a Member for a period not less
than three months due to the fact that any of the members has fallen ill or due to another
debility or due to staying out of Sri Lanka or another reason.
Establishment of
the Western
Province
Provincial
Members of the
Administrative
Authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2010
(i) If the member is an appointed member, another person may be appointed by the
Minister in-charge-of the subject of Cultural Affairs of the Western Provincial
Council to Act in place of the said member considering the provisions of the
paragraph 3Z(1)9(B).
(ii) If the member is an officer indicated under the sub-paragraphs 3(1)(A)(1) and (II),
a person appointed to act in the post of the said officer shall be appointed to act in
place of the said officer.
(2) (a) For each day on which the Administrative Authority meets, a remuneration prescribed
by the Minister shall be paid to each member relevant to the day so they meet.
(b) All matters for which powers have been vested with, by this statute that the same be
decided on by the Administrative Authority, shall be decided by the majority vote of the
members who have been presented at the meeting of the Administrative Authority in
accordance with the provisions of this Statute.
(c) If the Chairman of the Administrative Authority is present, he shall take the chair at every
meeting of the Administrative Authority. On an occasion when the Chairman is absent
from such a meeting one person, out of the members who have been present at the
moment. shall be selected by the said members to take the chair.
(d) The quorum of any meeting of the Administrative Authority shall comprise three
(03) persons.
(e) The   Administrative Authority may function despite being a vacancy among the members
of the Administrative Authority.
(f) An   Act, a decision or a function of the Administrative Authority shall not be deemed to
be invalid due to the occurrence of a vacancy of the members of the Authority or any
shortcomings in the appointment  of some members of the Administrative Authority.
(g) If an appointed member of the Administrative  Authority has not attended the meeting
for three sessions without being informed of the same, his office is deemed to have been
revoked.
(h) The Administrative Authority shall meet once a month at  least.
05. ( a) The seal of the Administrative Authority shall be kept in the custody of the chairman.
(b) The seal of the Administrative Authority may be moulded in the manner to be decided by
the Administrative Authority.
(c) Except in the presence of two members of the Administrative Authority, while the seal of
the Administrative Authority shall not be placed on  any indenture, document or agreement,
the said two members themselves shall sign the said indenture or the document or the
agreement as evidences to the effect that they have been present. One of the two members
should be the chairman of the Administrative Authority.
P
ART II
OBJECTIVES, POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE ADMINISTRA TIVE AUTHORITY
6.  (1)  Objectives of the Administrative Authority shall be as follows.
Meeting of the
Administrative
Authority.
Seal of the
Administrative
Authority.
Objectives

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'23
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2010
4A
(a) Management and Maintenance of the Provincial Aesthetic Resort.
(b) Encouragement and promotion of performance, music, enjoyment activities and
entertainments within the Province ;
(c) Improvement and enhancement of the knowledge, understanding and practice regarding
cultural and arts activities ;
(e) Planning of programmes having cultural values within the Western Province and with
other provinces, exchange of knowledge and planning of combined programmes.
07.  (1) Powers functions and activities of the Administrative Authority shall be as follows ;
(a) Acceptance and use of awards, gifts or donations being received in cash or kind in
accordance with the objectives of this statute.
(b) Granting of monetary assistance, donations or scholarships for the purpose of
achieving the objectives of the Administrative Authority subject to the rules made
under this Statute ;
(c) Taking action regarding appointment and promotion of officers and employees,
dismissal from service, disciplinary control and granting other benefits ;
(d) Prescribing charges on maintaining the Provincial Aesthetic Resort ;
(e) Intervention in all matters relating to the functioning process of the Administrative
Authority for financial activities such as monetary investment, use of money and
banking activities, assigning of duties to officers and making inquiries ;
(f) Payment of remuneration of officers and employees, fulfilling of service conditions
and implementation of recruitment procedures of the Provincial Public Service with
the approve al of the Governor of Western Province.
(g) Attachment of an officer of the Western Provincial Council to the Administrative
Authority on the assent of the appointing Authority with the consent of the relevant
officer ;
(h) Administrative Authority shall have the power to perform activities in regard to the
administration, financial activities and such other activities as per the decision of the
Administrative Authority for facilitating the achievement of its objectives.
(i) Administrative Authority shall have the power for whatever course of action to be
taken for the purpose of getting fulfilled the matters contained in the above sections.
P
ART  III
STAFF OF THE ADMINISTRA TIVE AUTHORITY
08.  (1)  While there should be a full-time Director to be appointed by the Administrative Authority,
he shall work under the guidance of the Administrative Authority.
(2)  While the Director to be appointed under this statute shall act as the Secretary of the
Administrative Authority, he is not entitled to cast vote on behalf of the Administrative Authority. he can
only express views.
Powers,
functions and
Activities of the
Administrative
Authority.
Appointment of
the Director.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2010
(3)  If it is considered by the Administrative Authority that the appointment of the Director should
be terminated, the same can be done by the Administrative Authority with the approval of the Minister
concerned.
09. Following powers are possessed by the Director.
(a) Implementation of all policies and courses of action approved by the Administrative
Authority ;
(b) Administration of functions and supervision of the staff subject to the general orders
of the Administrative Authority ;
(c) Preparation of the agenda for the meeting of the Administrative Authority and submission
of policies and courses of action which are considered by him as necessary for the
implementation of the policies and the provisions of the statute ;
(d) Implementation or fulfillment of powers of functions entrusted and prescribed to him by
the Administrative Authority.
P
ART  IV
MONEY
10  (1)  Administrative Authority should have a fund in the name of the Administrative Authority.
Following monies shall be paid to the fund of the Administrative Authority.
(a) All monies being appropriated from time to time by the Provincial Council for the use of
the Administrative Authority.
(b) All monies being received by the Authority is charged for the service to be rendered or
facilities to be provided by the Administrative Authority or the monies being received in
the implementation of powers and in performing functions and activities ;
(c) All monies being received by the Authority as loans, donations, gifts or grants from
whatever source inside or outside of Sri Lanka.
(2)  All monies for an expenditure to be met by  the Authority in the implementation of the powers,
in taking necessary action and performing functions and all monies necessary to met expenses, may be met
with the fund of the Administrative Authority.
(3)  The initial capital of the Administrative Authority shall be Rs. 05 million. While the initial
capital shall be paid with the Provincial Council’s Fund in installments to be decided on by the Minister in-
charge of the subject of Finance having consulted the Minister concerned, the said monies shall be
credited to the Fund set up under Sub-section (1).
(4)  The money necessary for the Authority to settle the liabilities of the Administrative Authority
or perform the functions of the Administrative Authority under this statute may be borrowed by means of
an overdraft or in another manner by the Administrative Authority with the assent of the Minister or in
accordance with the terms of a common approval granted by him.
However, the total of the money, due to be paid on a certain  occasion regarding temporary loans
obtained by the Administrative Authority under this Sub-section, shall not exceed an amount of money to
be decided on by the Minister concerned having consulted the Minister in-charge of the subject of
Finance.
Funds of the
Administrative
Authority.
Payments due to
be made with the
Fund.
Powers and
functions belong
to the Director.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'23
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2010
6A
11.  (01) The Financial year of the Administrative Authority should be the calendar year.
(02) The Trust of the Administrative Authority’s Fund, making payments to the same,
accounting, preparation of budget estimates and all other matters related and incidental thereto shall be
regularized by the rules made by the Minister concerned.
12. (01)The Provisions of the Article 154 of the constitution are applicable with regard to the
audit of accounts.
(02)  Accounts of the fund and a copy of the report of the Auditor General in regard to the
same shall be submitted to the Minister concerned. He shall make necessary arrangements to forward
the same to the Provincial Council along with the annual report of the Administrative Authority.
P
ART V
GENERAL  PROVISIONS
13.  (a) While all officers and employees of the Administrative Authority come under the
disciplinary procedure mentioned in the volume II of the establishment code, in regard to the provisions of
the penal code, they shall be considered as government officers and employees.
(b)  While all officers and employees of the Administrative Authority shall be considered as a
scheduled institution in terms of the Bribery Act, provisions of the said Act shall be applicable accordingly.
14. (01)  Rules, which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this statute causing no harm to
the powers vested with by this statute regarding all matters mentioned hereunder relevant to implement
provisions, empower the same and levy charges or regarding one of such matters, may be made by the
Minister concerned :-
(a) To prescribe the manner as to how the meetings of the Administrative Committee should
be summoned and as to how the same should be held ;
(b) Powers and functions of the Director as the Chief Executive Officers of the Administrative
Authority ;
(c) Procedures as regards the financial and administrative activities of the Administrative
Authority ;
(d) For achieving objectives and performance of functions and activities of the Administrative
Authority and whatever matters falling within the scope of this statute.
(2)  While every rule to be made by the Minister shall be published in the Government Gazette, the
same shall be operative with effect from the date so published or with effect from a subsequent date
motioned in the rule.
(03)  Every rule to be made by the Minister shall be submitted to the Provincial Council for its
approval within three (03) months after the same being published in the Government Gazette. Although any
order so not approved should be considered as rescinded from the date on which the same was not
approved, no harm shall be caused to anything effected under the same.
15. In this statute unless the context otherwise requires.
Audit of
accounts
Power of making
rules
Interpretation.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2010
“Minister” means the Minister in-charge of the subject of Cultural Affairs of Western Provincial
Council.
“Financial Minister” means the Minister in-charge of the subject of Finance of the Western
Provincial Council.
“Ministry” means the Minister in-charge of  the subject of Cultural Affairs of the Western
Provincial Council.
“Secretary of the Ministry” means the Secretary of the Minister in-charge of  the subject of
Cultural Affairs of Western Provincial Council.
“Establishment Code” means the volume II of the Establishment Code issued by the Secretary of
the Ministry of Public Administration.
16. If there is any inconsistency between the versions of Sinhala, Tamil and English,
Sinhala version shall prevail.
04-251
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.