

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1269
1269
wxl 1"869 - 2014 cqks 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'06'27
No. 1,869 – FRIDAY , JUNE 27, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1272
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1276
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th July, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th July,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,868 of 20.06.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1270
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1271
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1272
Posts – Vacant
CANCELLATION  OF  GAZETTE  NOTIFICATION  OF  APPLICATION  RECRUITMENT  FOR  THE  POST  OF
BIRTH  AND  DEATH  REGISTRAR  OF  MALIGATENNA  HALIELA  DIVISION  IN  BADULLA  DISTRICT
THIS is to inform that the notice regarding calling application for the following division will be cancelled which published in  Gazette
notification bearing No. 1,866 and date 06.06.2014.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
06th June, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Haliela Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Maligatenna Haliela Division General, District Secretariat,
Badulla.
06–680
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHW AYS,  PORTS  AND  SHIPPING
Public Service Commission
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
(GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CATEGORY) ON
OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who fulfill
the qualifications specified in this notification to fill a vacancy in
the post of Legal Officer of the Ministry of Highways, Ports and
Shipping.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates, who score the highest
marks at the structural interview conducted by the Interview Board
appointed by the Public Service Commission, out of the applicants
who fulfill the qualifications specified in this notification, will be
selected depending on the number of vacancies exist. The structural
interview will be conducted in compliance with the marking scheme
approved by the Public Service Commission (as indicated under
No.6).
02. Required Qualifications :–
(i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :
Having obtained a degree in Law from a university
recognized by the University Grant Commission / being
an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court.
(ii) Experience :
Active professional experience for not less than 3 years
after swearing in as an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme
Court.
(iii) Physical requirement :
Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit
to perform the duties of the post and to serve in any part
of the Island.
(iv) Other qualifications :
· Must be a Sri Lankan citizen
· Must be of excellent character
· Must have fulfilled the qualifications for the recruitment
to the post as at the closing date of applications.
· English language proficiency will be an added advantage.
03. Terms of Engagement and Terms of Service :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) The appointment will be subject to a probationary
period of three years. And the appointees should pass
the first Efficiency Bar examination within 03 years from
the date of appointment as specified in the Scheme of
Recruitment.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1273
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/201, the successful candidates should obtain the relevant proficiency in
the official language other than the official language they join the public service within a period of 5 years from joining the
post and those who join the public service in a language medium which is not an official language, should obtain the
required official language proficiency within the probationary period.
(vi) This appointment should be subjected to the procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishments Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and to the other Departmental
regulations.
04. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
05. Salary Scale.– The monthly salary scale attached to the post is Rs. 22,935 -10 X 645-8 X 790 -17 X Rs. 1,050 . (Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006, dated 2006-04-25 - SL-l -2006).
 06. The Structural Interview will be conducted based on the following marking scheme  :
Subject Maximum marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :2 0
A degree in Law from a recognized University
– For First Class pass 20
– For Second Class pass 15
– For Third Class pass 10
For First Class pass at the final year examination of Law College 15
For Second Class pass at the final year examination of Law College 10
Note : 10 marks should be given if passed the final examination with honours only.
(Marks will be allocated for the highest qualification only - either of the degree or
the Law College qualification.)
02 Additional Professional Qualifications :
For a Post Graduate Diploma or Post Graduate Law Diploma of not less than one 15
year duration in the relevant field offered by a recognized institution
(5 marks each for a diploma)
For a diploma of not less than six months duration in the relevant field offered
by a recognized institution
(3 marks each for a diploma)
For a diploma of not less than three months duration in the relevant field offered by
a recognized institution
(3 marks each for a diploma)
03 Additional Experience : 30
Experience in the Public Service or in Private Sector as an Attorney-at-Law
more than 06 months and less than 1 year - 02 marks
05 marks each for each year up to a maximum of 30 marks
(except for the service period of three year worked as an apprentice under an
Attorney-at-Law)
(a certificate from an Attorney-at-Law with a service of not less than 20 years or  President's
Counsel or from a Judge should be produced to prove the additional qualification)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1274
04 Computer literacy : 15
For having offered Information Technology as a core subject for the degree from a 15
university recognized by the University Grant Commission.
For having followed a Diploma Course in Information Technology of not less than one 10
year duration or 1500 hours at an institution recognized by the government.
For having followed a certificate course in Information Technology at an institution
recognized by the government of the duration of –
– 06 months/720 hours 07
– 03 months/360 hours 05
05 English Language Proficiency : 15
Post Graduate Degree/degree/Post Graduate Degree in Law/Bachelor of Laws in 15
English medium
(Should have answered all relevant examination papers in English medium)
For having followed a Diploma Course in English at a university recognized by the 10
University Grant Commission or at an institution recognized by the Government
(of one year or 1500 hours duration)
For having followed a Certificate Course in English at a university recognized by the
University Grant Commission or at an institution recognized by the Government
of the duration of –
– 06 months/720 hours 07
– 03 months/360 hours 05
06 Skills demonstrated at the interview 05
Total 100
07. Identity of candidates.– Candidates who have forwarded completed applications in every aspect will only be called for the
structural interview.
The originals and certified copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview.
Following identification papers will be accepted at the interview to establish the identity of candidates :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner General of Registration of Persons ;
2. Valid Passport.
08. Method of application :
(i) The completed application forms should be sent under registered post to reach the Director General, Office of the
Director General of Merchant Shipping, No. 43/89, 1st Floor, Bristol Building, Yoke Street, Colombo 01, on or before
28.07.2014. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
(ii) The specimen of the application to be submitted appears at the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare their
own application forms on a A4 paper so as to appear Items Nos. 01 to 07 on the first page and Item Nos. 08 to 12 on
the second page and Item No. 13 on the third page and fill them in their own hand writing.
(iii) The words 
“Application for the (permanent) post of Legal Officer”  should be written on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope enclosing the application.
(iv) The signature of the candidate in the application should be attested by a Principal of a governemnt school/Justice of the
Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/Commissioned Officer of the Three Armed Forces or a
Public Officer holding a permanent post and drawing a consolidated monthly salary of Rs. 22,935 - Rs. 240,360 or over.
Subject Maximum marks

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1275
(v) Candidates who are already in the Public or Provincial
Public Services, should forward their applications through
the respective Heads of their Department in which they
are serving at present.
(vi) Applications which do not conform to the specimen
given here will be rejected. No complains regarding delays
or losses to any application will not be entertained.
09. Furnishing false particulars .– If any of the particulars
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before the
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. In case such
falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, action will be
taken to discontinue your service, subject to relevant disciplinary
actions being taken.
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right either to
fill or not to fill the vacancies in the post.
On order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Highways, Ports and Shipping.
Port Office,
No. 19, Chitiya Road,
Colombo 01,
27th June, 2014.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION
(For office use only)
01. Name of the applicant :––––––––––––.
Name with initials at the end (English capital letters) :––––––.
Name in full (English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and telephone numbers :
(a) Office Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(b) Private Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
Mobile Number :––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) University, date and medium of language the Degree in
Law was obtained :––––––––––––.
(b) Date on which oaths were taken as an Attorney-at-Law
of the Supreme Court :––––––––––––.
09. Professional Qualifications :
Examination/ Year Subjects Performance Number of
Diploma University/
Institution
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institution served Position Period of service
11. Proficiency in computer literacy :
(a) Degree :––––––––––––.
(b) Diploma :––––––––––––.
(c) Certificate course :––––––––––––.
12. English language proficiency :
(a) Degree :––––––––––––.
(b) Diploma :––––––––––––.
(c) Certificate course :––––––––––––.
13. Have you been convicted in any court ? :––––––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance after
selection.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
I, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is submitting
this application is an employee of this Ministry/Department/Board/
Corporation and that his/her performance and conduct are
satisfactory and that he/she has not been subjected to any
disciplinary actions or it is not intended to take such actions against
him/her. In the event of his/her selection for the aboe post he/she
can be released.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and Official Stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
06–785

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1276
MINISTRY OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF DRAUGHTSMAN
APPRENTICE GRADE (FOR ONE YEAR) IN GRADE III OF
THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2014
APPLICATIONS are being called for the Open Competitive
Examination to recruit to the post of Draughtsman Apprentice Grade
(for one year) in Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service.
02. Examination .– The examination will be conducted on
September, 2014 by the Director General of Animal Production and
Health as per the Minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service.
03. Conditions of the Service.– Recruitment will be made to the
post of Draughtsman Apprentice Grade (for one year) in Grade III
of Sri Lanka Technological Service subjected to the general conditions
of the Public Service and the following conditions governing the
appointments to :–
(i) The officer recruited to the apprentice Grade on the basis
of open recruitments shall be placed on the initial salary
scale entitled to the Grade III on passing the relevant
examination conducted after the satisfactory completion
of one year theoretical and practical training relevant to
the syllabus ;
(ii) The officers who are recruited under open competitive
examination will be on probation for a period of 3 years
on attachment to the Grade III. If a public officer already
confirmed in a permanent post in the Public Service is
appointed, he will be subjected to supervision for a period
of one year. The officers who are appointed by the open
competitive examination are required to pass the relevant
First Efficiency Bar Examination before confirmed in the
post ;
(iii) The selected officer is subjected to the orders of the Public
Service Commission Provisions of the Establishment
Code, Financial Regulations, Service Procedural Rules
and Regulations issued by the Government from time to
time and orders of the Ministry and Department.
Salary Scale :
MN-3-2006A - Draughtsman Grade III
Rs. 15,005- 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885
(Monthly as per Public Administration Circular 07/2008).
This post is entitled to the salary steps Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 -
6x240 - Rs. 17,165. The officer of the Grade III should pass the 1st
Efficiency Bar Examination before the 3rd increment. (Apprentice
Grade allowances as per p.s.c. 6/2006(II) -
First year Rs. 12,920
Second year Rs. 13,040
5. Age Limit :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years at the closing date of the application.
6. Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level) examination in one sitting in 06 subjects with credit
passes in Sinhala Language or literature/Tamil/English Language/
Science/Mathematics and one more subject ;
And
Should have passed G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination in
one sitting in 03 subjects in the stream of Science/Mathematics
inclusively two relevant subjects (viz: Biology, Chemistry, Combined
Maths).
Vocational Qualifications.– Should have obtained the certificate,
completing successfully the full time one year Diploma in
Draughtsman ship from a Technical College recognized by the
Commission of Tertiary and V ocational Education ;
or
Should have obtained other technical qualifications similar to the
above mentioned qualifications in all respects recognized by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission subsequently in
consultation with the Ministry of Higher Education and the Institutes
issuing above mentioned technical certificates (Should have obtained
the certificate at the closing date of the applications).
Other Conditions :
Physical fitness.– Should be physically fit and bear an excellent
moral character, the physical fitness should be proved by medical
certificates.
Other :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should bear an excellent character.
(iii) Only when the candidate has completed all the
qualifications and the relevant age limit in all respects at
the closing date of the applications it would be accepted
his/her eligibility at sitting for the competitive examination
of recruiting to the post.
7. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitments will be made on the
results of the written competitive examination and general interview.
The candidates will be called for the interview based on the allocated
vacancies and on the order of the aggregate marks obtained at the
written examination.
Written examination.– This examination will be comprised with
02 papers.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1277
Subjects Duration Maximum Passed
marks marks
1. Intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
2. General paper 01 hour 100 40
(Technical and
subject related test)
8. Examination :
(i) Medium of examination will be in Sinhala/Tamil/English.
(ii) Candidate can select the medium of the examination.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the medium applied
for at the examination.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 400.
(v) The receipt of the money order drawn in favour of the
Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health encashable at the Post Office, Peradeniya should
be affixed to the relevant cage in the application.
(vi) Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Test.– This question paper is designed to
examine the logical reasoning, analytical thinking and
the ability to take decision.
(b) General Question Paper (Technical and subject related
paper)
1. Mathematics -basic principles of mathematics and
procedures :
* Conversion of metric units, standard units
* Measuring on length, area, volume, capacity
* Converting the straight lines into two, three or two
more similar parts following the given numbers.
2. Taking off measurements.– Taking off measurements as
per the type drawings and other simple structures.
3. Matters related to the basic constructions and
maintenance:
* Construction materials used at constructions of
foundation, walls, structures, roof, ceiling, doors and
windows, floor and wall finishing.
* Quality control of site management.
* Documents to be maintained at site offices.
4. Water supply, sewerage and Drainage systems :
* Water supply (water sources, water pipe materials
and accessories, pipe laying inclusively all accessories).
* Sewerage/drainages (regulations, drainage accessories,
toilette commodes, traps, gullies, ventilation, manholes
and the septic tanks.
9. Method of Application.– The application should be prepared in
accordance with the specimen application form attached to this
notification. Application should be prepared on paper 8 1/2 x 12(A4)
using both sides of it.
The application should be sent under registered cover to reach
the Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before 14.09.2014. The
words "Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of
Draughtsman" should be written clearly on the top left hand corner
of the envelope. The application received after the closing date will
be rejected.
Note : (i) The candidates who are in the Public Service should
forward their application through the Head of the
Department/Institute.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No
allegation that an application has been delayed or
lost in the post will be considered.
(iii) Applications will not be akcnoweldged. The date of
the Examination will be published through a
newspaper notification. If admissions are not
received within four days prior to the date of the
examination, the candidates are requested to inform
the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health with the following
particulars :–
(i) Full name of the applicant ;
(ii) Address ;
(iii) Date of posting registered No. and Post
Office.
10. The photostat copies of the following should be attached to
the application :–
(i) Certificate of birth ;
(ii) Certificates in proof of educational/vocational qualifications.
Identity of the candidate.– Every candidate is required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. The following documents are accepted for that purpose :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport (issued 3 years prior to the date of the
examination).
Submission of false Information. – If it reveals that a candidate
has not gained the required qualification to sit for the examination
his/her candidature can be cancelled before or during the period or
after the examination or at any stage. If it appears that a candidate
has submitted a false information knowingly he/she will be liable to
disqualification.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions pertaining to the appointment to the Public Service
stipulated at the paragraph 03 of this gazette notification.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1278
11. The Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health reserves himself the right to take a decision with regard to a
problem arisen about a fact which is not mentioned in the Gazette
notification or about the number to be recruited and that will be the
final decision.
Dr. W. K. D
E SILV A,
Director-General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
03rd June, 2014.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEP ARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF DRAUGHTSMAN APPRENTICE GRADE (FOR ONE YEAR)
IN CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2014
(For office use only)
Medium selected
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :––––––––––.
1.1 Name with Initials (in block letters - English) :–––––––––.
Ex. SILV A, B. A.
1.2 Name in full (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
1.3 N. I. C. No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Private Address :––––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––.
2.3 The address to which the admission card to be sent :––––.
03. Sex (Mark the relevant cage) :
3.1 Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Civil Status : (Mark the relevant cage)
Married
Unmarried
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (Advance Level) :
Year :––––––––––. Month :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Index No.
4.2 G . C. E. (Advance Level) :
Subjects Grade Index No.
4.3 Institute where the vocational qualifications were obtained
:––––––––––.
4.4 The year in which the vocational qualifications were
obtained :––––––––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous appointments held (if
applicable) :
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the Post Office to which the examination fees had
ben paid :––––––––––––.
No. of the Money Order :––––––––––––.
The examination fee is Rs. 400. It can be paid to any Post
Office in the Island in favour of the Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health
Affix the receipt here.
07. I, hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any of the
information furnished by me is found to be false or incorrect, I
am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed
without any compesnation if such detection is made after
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1279
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent posts
in the Public Service at present.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
(Only for the applicants in the permanent and pensionable post
at present)
I declare that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .................. is
holding the Post of ..................... in this department and the particulars
stated in the application are accurate when checked with his/her
personal file. He/She can be released/cannot be released from
Department if selected for this Post. (Delete the words not relevant).
––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(The Office Seal)
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
06–681
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts of Assistant Matron (Male/Female) and Assistant
Superintendent (Male/Female) - 2014
APPLICATIONS are called from the suitable Sri Lankan citizens for
the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Posts of
Assistant Matron in National Schools and the Posts of Assistant
Superintendent in the National Colleges of Education under the
Ministry of Education. The above vacancies in the Posts of Assistant
Matron prevail in National Schools while the Posts of Assistant
Superintendent prevail in the National Colleges of Education.
02. The candidates who have satisfied the qualifications will be
selected for appointment on the basis of sequence of marks obtained
at a written examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The examination will be conducted in some examination
centers in the Colombo-city area.
03. Salary.– The salary scale applicable to Grade III, II and I of
the Management Assistant - Non-technical category 2 Cadre.
Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
Promotion to Grade II should be obtained to exceed Rs. 14,570 and
to Grade I to exceed Rs. 16,440.
04. Nature of the Post.– Permanent and pensionable.
05. Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects at one sitting with credit
passes to Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics and two
other subjects. Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination at
least in one subject (except Common General Test).
06. Physical Suitability.– Should be in sound health and have
adequate physical suitability to discharge the duties of the post.
07. Other Qualifications :
(i) Candidates should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Candidates should possess an excellent character.
(iii) Qualifying date.– The date in which the candidate has
satisfied all the requirements given above is considered as
the qualifying date to sit for the competitive examination
for the appointment to the Post. This date should be
either the closing date for applications or a date prior to
that.
08. Age Limit.– 18 years - minimum
30 years - maximum.
09. Examination Procedure.– The examination will be conducted
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. The medium applied for is
not liable to be changed later.
Marks Duration
(i) General Knowledge 100 01 hour
(ii) Sinhala/Tamil Language 100 01 hour
At least 40% of marks out of the total marks for each subject
should be obtained for a pass.
General Knowledge .– A paper consisting of multiple choice
questions prepared to ascertain the candidate's General knowledge
in discharging the duties relevant to the Post.
A summary of the paper  - General Knoweldge. Assisting the
Superintendent for the discharge of the activities pertaining to
discipline, safety and welfare of the students in hostels and the
provision of food.
Activities of welfare of the students in hostels; to function as the
guardian of the students in hostels; to maintain discipline; to maintain
records and documents relevant to the purchase of food items;
activities pertaining to the purchase and safety of food items and
issuing them to the kitchen; to examine cooking; to take measures to
keep the kitchen equipment clean and to keep the hostels in a good
state of cleanliness; activities pertaining to injured students (giving
first aid) and safeguarding the possessions of the government and the
students ; activities pertaining to the implementation of the time
table ; activities relevant to the proper supply of water and electricity
for hostels; activities pertaining to arrival at and departure of students
from hostels.
Sinhala Tamil Language. – This question paper is prepared to
ascertain the candidate's expression of ideas, comprehension and
knowledge in spellings and grammar. (the level of the G . C. E. (O/L)
Sinhala or Tamil). This paper is prepared in a manner that candidates
can answer all the questions on the paper itself.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1280
09.1 Issuance of Results. – A results sheet will be prepared
including the total marks of the candidates who have passed
by obtaining not less than 40% of marks for each subject,
based on the sequence of higher marks obtained and handed
over the same to the Secretary of the Ministry of Education.
Apart from that, individual results sheets including the
marks obtained for each subject and the total marks will be
provided to all candidates.
10. 10.1 Recruitment to the Vacancies. – Appointment will be
made to the National School or the College of Education
where the said vacancy exists based on the vacancies
prevailing for the above Posts. The candidates should
mention three work places where he/she expects to be
appointed in priority order in their applications. If
you are eligible to be appointed, you are bound to
work at least 05 years in the work place where you are
appointed to.
List of Vacancies.– National Schools - Annexure 01.
List of Vacancies.– National Colleges of Education -
Annexure 02.
10.2 Method of applying. – The applications prepared in
accordance with the model application given at the end
of this notice should be completed accurately and
forwarded under a registered cover to reach the following
address on or before 25.07.2014.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla.
The post applied for should be mentioned, as
applicable, on the top left hand corner of the envelope
in which the application is enclosed.
When preparing the application, Headings 1 to 8.1
should be entered on the first page, 8.2 and the rest on
the second page and the relevant particulars should be
entered in the candidate's own handwriting very clearly.
Applications which do not conform to the model
application form and incomplete applications will be
rejected without notice. It would be advisable to retain
a copy of the application. Further, when preparing the
application, the name of examination mentioned in its
heading should be given in applications in Sinhala in
English in addition and in applications in Tamil in
Engilsh in addition.
10.3 Examination Fees.– The examination fee is Rs. 500.
The examination fee can be paid at any Divisional
Secretariat or District Secretariat to the credit of
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The receipt obtained for this
payment should be firmly pasted to the place specified
in the application form. (It would be advisable to retain
a photocopy of this receipt.) The payment made for
this examination will not be refunded for any reason
and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
11.For the establishment of the identity of the applicant, one of
the following documents should be produced to the head of the
examination hall :-
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
for the Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
12. Every candidate who submitted an application will be issued
an Admission Card. The issue of an admission card for the examination
to a candidate should not be taken as an acknowledgement that the
candidate has satisfied the qualifications to appear for the
examination. Candidates would be subject to the rules and regulations
imposed by the  Commissioner General of Examinations in respect
of the conduct of the examinations. If these ruels and regulations are
violated, candidates are bound to undergo any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
As soon as admission cards are issued to candidates, a notice will
be published in the newspapers by the Department of Examinations.
If the admission card is not received even after 2 to 3 days from the
publication of the notice, this should be brought to the ntoice of the
Department of Examinations in the manner stated in the notice. It is
advisable to send your request to the Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka through fax while retaining a copy of the same with you,
enclosing a certified copy of the application form and the receipt of
the payment made, the receipt of registration of the letter and a fax
number to send the admission, if the candidate resides out of
Colombo.
13. All candidates are bound to act in accordance with the general
rules of the examination mentioned in this Gazette Notification. The
final decision on any matter not covered in this notice rests with the
Secretary, Education.
A
NURA DISSANAY AKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla.
On the day of 05th June, 2014.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1281
MODEL APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
ASSISTANT MATRON (MALE/FEMALE) AND ASSISTANT HOSTEL
SUPERINTENDENT (MALE/FEMALE) - 2014
(only for office use)
The medium for examination
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
The Post applied for
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Assistant Matron Male/Female 01
Assistant Superintendent 02
Assistant Matron Male/Female and 03
Assistant Superintendent (Male/Female)
01. 1.1 Name with initials, with initials at the end (in English
block letters) :––––––––––––.
Eg.– SUNIL, J. M. U.
1.2 Name in full (in English Block letters) :––––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the Admission Card should be posted
(in English Block letters) :––––––––––––.
2.3 Telephone No. :
03. 3.1 Gender : (Female - 1,  Male - 0)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
06. Province of Residence :––––––––––––.
07. District of Residence :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
8.1 Details of the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Y ear
8.2 Details of the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Y ear
09. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. Experience :––––––––––––.
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
12. Places of work to which the applicant to be appointed :
Priority Order Place of Work
National Schools Colleges of Education
01.
02.
03.
13. Have you ever been found guilty at court for any charge ? :
––––––––––––.
14. Details of the receipt for the payment made :
13.1 Office at which the payment was made :––––––––––––.
13.2 Number and date of the receipt :––––––––––––.
13.3 Amount paid :
Paste here properly the receipt for examination fees
15. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I, hereby declare that the particulars given in this application
are true to my knowledge and belief. I agree to incure the
possible loss due to not filling certain parts of the
application or filling the application wrongly. Further, I
declare that all the parts in the application have been
completed accurately.
(b) I am aware that I will be regarded as disqualified before the
appointment and that I am liable to be dismissed from
service after appointment, if revealed that this declaration
given by me is false.
(c) Further, I state that I shall be subject to the rules and
regulations that the Commissioner General of Examinations
enacts in relation to the conduct of the examination.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1282
(d) I will not change any particular in this application later.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.
16. I, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ forwarding this
application is known to me personally and he/she placed the
signature in my presence on ...................... and that the receipt
for payment of examination fees has been pasted.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––. (Place confirm by placing official seal)
National Schools where vacancies existing in National Schools.-
Post of Assistant Matron (Male)
Western  Province
National Schools
0l. Prince of Wales College -Moratuwa
02. Hanwella Rajasingha Maha Vidyalaya -Hanwella
03. Royal College -Colombo 07
04. Ananda College -Colombo 10
05. Nalanda College -Colombo 10
06. Thakshila Central College -Horana
07. Al/Humaisara Central College -Beruwala
08. C.W.W.Kannangara Central College -Mathugama
09. Mahinda Rajapaksha Vidyalaya - Homagama
10. D.S. Senanayaka National School- Colombo 07
Southern Province
National Schools
01. Mahinda Vidyalaya -Galle
02. Richmand College -Galle
03. Siridhamma V idyalaya -Galle
04. Rahula College -Matara
05. Vijitha Central College -Dickwella
06. Deniyaya Central College -Deniyaya
07. Sahira Muslim Central College -Hambanthota
08. Arafa M.M.V . - Weligama
09. Thelijjawila M.M.V. - Thelijjawila
10. Mahinda Rajapaksha Vidyalaya - Matara
1l. Rajapaksha Vidyalaya - Hambantota
Central Province
National Schools
0l. Dharmaraja Vidyalaya -Kandy
02. Kingswood Maha Vidyalaya -Kandy
03. Wickramabahu Central College -Gampala
04. Walapane Sri Sumangala Central College, Nildhandahinna
05. Poramadulla Maha Vidyalaya -Rikillagaskada
06. Dambulla Central College -Dambulla
07. Nugawela M.M.V . - Nugawela
Uva Province
National School
Ol. Passara Central College -Passara
02. Kandegedara Central College -Haliela
03. Welimada Maha Vidyalaya -Welimada
04. Mahanama Central College -Moneragala
05. Malwattawala Central College -Wellawaya
North Western Province
National Schools
01. Al Aksha National School -Kalpitiya
02. Maliyadeva Boys School- Kurunegala
03. Ibbagamuwa Central College-Ibbagamuwa
04. Mayurapada Central College -Narammala
05. Sandalankawa Central College - Sandalankawa
06. Wijayaba Central College -Mahawa
07 . Kuliyapitiya Central College - Kuliyapitiya
08. Senanayeke Central College -Madampe
09. Kekunagolla M.M.V . - Kekunagolla
Eastern Province
National Schools
01- Kinniya Central College -Kinniya
02. D.S.Senanayaka National College -Ampara
03. Dehiaththakandiya N ational College - Dehiaththakandiya
04. QAl/Asrak Central College -Ninthaur
05. Kattakkudi Central College -Kattakkudi
06. Akkareipattu Muslim Central College - Akkareipattu
07. Sahira Vidyalaya -Kalmune
08. Tri/St. Joseph College -Trincomalee
Northern Province
National Schools
01. Jaffna Central College -Jaffna
02. Jaffna Hindu College -Jaffna
03. Sithivinayagar Hindu College -Mannar
04. V ayuniya Tamil Central College - V ayuniya
05. Manippai Hindu College -Jaffna
06. Nelliadi M.M.V. - Karawadi

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1283
Sabaragamuwa Province
National Schools
01- Seewali Central College -Rathnapura
02. Karavita Central College -Udakaravita
03. Pinnawala Central College -Rabukkana
04. Dudley Senanayaka M. M. V . - Tholangamuwa
05. Rivisada Central College - Ussapitiya
06. Rajasinghe M.M.V . - Ruwanwella
North Central Province
National Schools
0l. Anuradhapura Central College -Anuradhapura
02. Royal Central College -Polonnaruwa
03. Sahira Muslim College -Anuradhapura
04. Kekirawa M.M.V . - Kekirawa
05. Maithreepala Senanayaka M.M.V . - Medavachchiya
National Schools where vacancies are existing - Post of Assistant
Matron (Female}
Western Province
National Schools
01. Hanwella Rajasingha Maha Vidyalaya -Hanwella
02. Devi Balika Vidyalaya -Colombo 08
03. Vishaka Vidyalaya -Colombo 04
04. Muslim Balika Vidyalaya -Colombo 04
05. Ananda Balika Vidyalaya -Colombo 10
06. Veyangoda Bandaranayeke Central College -V eyangoda
07. Niwstead Balika Vidyalaya -Negombo
08. Thakshila M.M.V . - Horana
09. C.W.W. Kannangara M.M.V . - Mathugama
10. Mahinda Rajapaksha Vidyalaya - Homagama
11. Sirimao Bandaranayaka Girls’ School- Colombo 07
12. Aluthgama Weediya Muslim Ladies’ College - Aluthgama
Southern Province
National Schools
01. Repan Girls’ School -Galle
02. Southland Vidyalaya -Galle
03. Siridhamma V idyalaya -Galle
04. Kristhudewa Girls’ College -Baddegama
05. Sujatha Vidyalaya -Matara
06. Arafa Central College -Weligama
07. Vijitha Central College -Dickwella
08. Thelijjavila Central College - Thelijjavila
09: Deniyaya Central College -Deniyaya
10. Rajapaksha Vidyalaya- Hambantota
11. Zahira Muslim M.M.V . - Hambantota
12. Mahinda Rajapaksha Vidyalaya - Matara
13. Sangamiththa Balika Vidyalaya - Galle
Central Province
National Schools
01. Girls’ High School -Kandy
02. Mahamaya Girls’ College -Kandy
03. Pushpadana Girls’ College -Kandy
04. Walapane Sri Sumangala Central College -Nildandahinna
05. Poramadulla Maha Vldyalaya -Rekillagaskada
06. Dambulla Maha Vidyalaya -Dambulla
07. Wickramabahu M.M.V . -Gampola
08. Nugawela M.M.V . - Nugawela
09. Sanghamiththa Balika Vidyalaya - Mathale
Uva Province
National Schools
Ol. D.S.Senanayaka Central College -Kandeketiya
02. Vishaka Balika Maha Vidyalaya -Bandarawela
03. Kudakusum Balika Maha Vidyalaya -Bandarawela
04. Welimada Maha Vidyalaya -Welimada
05. Mahanama Central College -Moneragala
06. Wellassa Central College -Bibila
07. Passara M.M.V . - Passara
08. Kandegedara M.M.V . - Haliela
09. Malwaththawala M.M.V . - Wellawaya
North Western Province
National Schools
0l. AI Aksha National College -Kalpitiya
02. Maliyadewa Girls’ College -Kurunegala
03. Ibbagamuwa Central College -Ibbagamuwa
04. Kekunagolla Central College -Kekunagolla
05. Sadalankawa Central College -Sadalankawa
06. Vijayaba Central Colleg e -Mahawa
07. Mahasen Central College -Nikaweratiya
08. Kuliyapitiya Central College -Kuliyapitiya
09. Senanayaka Central College -Madampe
10. Mayurapada M.M.V . - Narammala
1l. Paracramabahu M.M.V . - Polgahawela
Eastern Province
National Schools
0l. Vincent High Girls’ College -Batticaloa
02. Dehiattakandiya National School -Ampara
03. St. Mary's National School -Trincomalee
04. D .S. Senanayaka National School- Ampara
05. AI Asraq M.M.V . - Ninthawoor
06. Kaththankudi M.M.V . - Kaththankudi
07. Akkareipaththu Muslim M.M.V . - Akkareipaththu
08. Zahira Vidyalaya - Kalmunei
Northern Province
National Schools
0l. Sithivinayagar Hindu Vidyalaya -Mannar
02. Vavuniya Tamil Maha Vidyalaya - Vavuniya
03. Nelliadi M.M.V . - Karawadi

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1284
Sabaragamuwa Province
National School
01. Ferguson High College -Rathnapura
02. Sumana Balika Vidyalaya -Rathnapura
03. Seevali Central College -Rathnapura
04. Karavita Central College -Udakaravita
05. Kegalle Girls College -Kegalle
06. Pinnawala Central College -Rabukkana
07. Rajasingha M.M.V. -Ruwanwella
08. Rivisada Central College - Ussapitiya
09. Dudley Senanayaka M. M. V . - Tholangamuwa
North Central Province
National School
01. Anuradhapura Central College -Anuradhapura
02. Kekirawa Central College -Kekirawa
03. Maithreepala Senanayaka Central College-
Madawachchiya
04. Royal College - Polonnaruwa
05. Zahira Muslim College - Anuradhapura
06. Swarnapali Balika M.V . - Anuradhapura
National Colleges of Education where vacancies are existing
(Assistant Hostel Superintendent (Female)
National Colleges of Education
0l. Pasdunrata National College of Education
02. Siyane National College of Education
03. Jaffna National College of Education
04. Mahaweli National College of Education
05. Nilwala National College of Education
06. Sripada National College of Education
07. Hapitigama National College of Education
08. Ruwanpura National College of Education
09. Ruhuna National College of Education
10. Addalachchenai National College of Education
11. Wayamba National College of Education
12. Vayuniya National College of Education
13. Darga National College of Education
14. Batticaloa National College of Education
15. Uva National College of Education
16. Pulathisipura National College of Education
17. Dambadeniya National College of Education
18. Peradeniya National College of Education
National Colleges of Education where vacancies are existing
(Assistant Hostel Superintendent (male)
National Colleges of Education
01. Pasdunrata National College of Education
02. Siyane National College of Education
03. Jaffna National College of Education
04. Mahaweli National College of Education
05. Nilwala National College of Education
06. Sri pali National College of Education
07. Hapitigama National College of Education
National Colleges of Education
08. Ruwanpura National College of Education
09. Ruhuna National College of Education
10. Attalachchenai National College of Education
11. North Western National College of Education
12. Vayuniya National College of Education
13. Batticaloa National College of Education
14. Uva National College of Education
15. Pulathisipura National College of Education
16. Sariputta National College of Education
17. Dabadeniya National College of Education
18. Peradeniya National College of Education
06–676
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
 RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and Health for the Competitive Examination to recruit
for the posts of Livestock Development Officer Grade III of Sri
Lanka Technological Service in the Department of Animal Production
and Health.
02. Examination .— The Examination will be held in September
2014 in Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and
Health. The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be
with the Director General.
03. Conditions of the Service  .—The recruitment to the post of
Livestock Development Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological
Service will be subjected to the General conditions govering the
appointments in the Public Service and the following conditions.
(i) The selected officer is subjected to serve in any part of
the Island.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicant should contribute to the Widows’/Widowers’
and Orphan pension fund.
(iii) The Officer appointed under open competitive
examination will be on probation for a period of 3 years.
If an officer who is confirmed in a post in the Public
Service is appointed, he will be on acting period of one
year. The officers who are appointed by the open
competitive examinations are required to pas the
Efficiency bar examination I before they are confirmed
in the posts.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1285
(iv) All the officers who have recruited for the public service
should obtain the proficiency in an official language in
addition to the official language medium in which they
gained qualifications to enter the Public Service within
05 years from the date of appointment.
(v) The selected officer will be subjected to the orders of the
Public Service Commission, rules and regulations of the
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, terms and
conditions issued by the Government from time to time
and the orders of the Ministry and the Department.
04. Salary Scale  .— MN-3-2006 A - Livestock Development
Officer Grade III. Rs. 15,005 - 4 X 180 - 6 X 240 - 11 X 320 - 20 X
360 - Rs. 27,885. (As per P. A. Circular No. 07/2008 Monthly)
This post is entitled to the Salary Steps Rs. 15,005 - 4 X 180 -
6 X 240 - Rs. 17,165. The officer of the Grade III should pass the
1st efficiency bar examination before the 3rd increment.
05. Age Limit .— (a) Should be not less than 18 years and not
more than 30 years at the Closing date of the application.
06. Educational & Vocational Qualification :
 Educational Qualification .— G. C. E. (A.L) in three subjects
in the stream of Science/Maths including two subjects
from Chemistry, Agriculture and Biology and pass the
examination in one and the same sitting.
and
Passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in one sittings,
in Six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/ English Languages,
Science, Mathematics and another Subject with credit
passes
Vocational Qualifications .— Should have obtained the two
year Diploma certificate in Animal Husbandry from an
Institute recognized by the Commission of Tertiary and
V ocational Education.
or
Should have completed NVQ 6th standard of National
V ocational Qualification relevant to the field of Animal
Husbandry.
or
Should have obtained other technical qualifications similar
to the above mentioned qualifications in all respects
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission subsequently in consultation with the
ministry of Higher Education and the Institutes issuing
above mentioned technical certificates (Should have
obtained the certificate at the closing date of the
applications)
Note .— Should have obtained qualifications on or before the
closing date of the applications. The applications which
are awaiting results will be rejected.
Physical Fitness .— Should be physically fit and bear an excellent
moral character, the physical fitness should be proved by a medical
certificates.
Other:
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should bear an excellent character.
(iii) Only when the candidate has completed all the
qualifications and the relevant age limit in all respects at
the closing date of the applications it would be accepted
his/her eligibility at sitting for the competitive
examination of recruiting to the post.
07. Method of Recruitment.— Recruitments will be made on the
results of the written competitive examination and general interview.
The candidates will be called for the interview based on the allocated
vacancies and on the order of the aggregate marks obtained at the
written examination.
Written Examination.— This examination will be comprised with
02 papers.
Subjects Duration  Maximum Passed
marks marks
1. Intelligence Test 01 hour 100 40
2. General paper 01 hour 100 40
(Technical and
subject related test)
08. Examination :
(i) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil and
English Medium.
(ii) Candidates may answer in any language.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the Language Medium
applied at the Examination.
(iv) The examination fee will be Rs. 400.
(v) A money order drawn in favour of the Director General
Animal Production and Health encashable at the post office
Peradeniya should be affixed on the relevant cage in the
application.
(vi) Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Test .— This question paper is designed to
examine the Applicant’s logical reasoning, analytical
thinking and the ability to take decisions.
(b) General Question Paper (Question paper in Technology
and subject related)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1286
(i) The resources available for agricultural and
animal husbandry activities of Sri Lanka,
potentials, present situation and contribution
towards the economy.
(ii) Animal production systems of Sri Lanka,
quantity of production and marketing systems,
Livestock farming patterns available in Sri
Lanka, their location and the dissemination.
(iii)  Popular methods used for breeding purpose
with regard to farm herd.
(iv) Epidemics, disease control activities, collection
of samples from sick animals and transporting
of them.
(v) Combined farming systems and recycling
methods.
(vi) Industries associated with Animal husbandry
processing of milk and meat and processing of
animal feed.
(vii) Income and the expenditure accounting systems
pertaining to animal production process,
reporting and auditing the farms, planning of
farms.
(viii) Using of Scientific information dissemination
system and their productivity.
09. Method of Application  .— (i) Application form should be
prepared in accordance with the specimen application attached
herewith. Application prepared on A-4 size paper 8 1/2 x 12 (A4)
using both sides of it should be forwarded under registered cover to
reach the Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health, P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before 14.07.2014.
The words "Competitive examination for recruitment to the
Post of Livestock Development Officer" should be written clearly
on the top left hand corner of the envelop.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Note :
(i) The applicants who are in the Public Service
should forward their application through their
Head of the Department/Institutions.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No
allegation with regard to the application lost or
delayed in the post will be accepted.
(iii) No acknowledgment will be sent regarding the
receipt of the application. If the candidates have
not received their admission cards four days prior
to the date of the examination. It should be
informed to the Director General of Animal
Production and Health immediately with following
particulars :–
(i) Full name of the applicant;
(ii) Address;
(iii) Date on which the application was posted,
registered No. and post office.
10. Photostat copies of the following should be attached to the
application form of the candidate :–
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Certificates with regard to the Educational/V ocational
Qualifications.
Identity of the Candidate  .— Every candidate should prove his
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor.
The following documents are accepted for that purpose :-
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) V alid passport.
Submission of False Information .— If it reveals that a candidate
has not possessed the required qualifications to sit for the
examination, his or her candidature can be cancelled before or during
the examination or after it or at any stage. If it reveals that a candidate
has submitted false information knowingly he/she will be subject
for dismissal.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions of the service relevant for the appointment to
the Public Service stated in paragraph 03 of this Gazette notification
together with the rules and instructions for the candidates.
11. The Director General, Animal Production and Health
deserves himself the right to take a decision with regard to a problem
arisen or the number of candidates to be recruited. it will be the final
decision.
Dr. W. K. 
DE SILV A,
Director General of Department of
Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Productions and Health,
Peradeniya,
02nd June, 2014.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1287
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEP ARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE - 2014
(For office use only)
The Medium applied for :
Make the relevant number in the cage :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials in block Capitals (Surname first) :––––.
Example : SILV A B. A.
1.2 Full Name in Sinhala :––––––––––.
1.3 N. I. C. No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Private Address :––––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :––––.
03. 3.1 Sex (Mark the relevant cage) :
Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years: Months: Days :
3.4 Civil Status : (Mark the relevant cage)
Married :
Single
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G. C. E. (A/L) : Examination
Year :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.2 G. C. E. (O/L)  Examination :
Year: :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.3 ( a) The Institute from where the V ocational Qualifications
obtained :––––––––––.
(b) The year in which the V ocational Qualifications
obtained :––––––––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous post held (If available
only)
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the Post Office to which the examination fee had
been paid :––––––––––.
Money Order No. :––––––––––.
The examination fee is Rs. 400. It should be written in favor of
Director General, Animal Production and Health.
Paying Branch : Peradeniya
07. I certify that the particulars given in this application are true
and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained
herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be
disqualified before selection or to be dismissed without any
compensation if such detection is made after selection.
————————,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers in the Public Service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ………....………
is serving in this Department as a ………………… and the foregoing
particulars were checked by me and found to be correct. He/she
could/could not be released from the present post held by him/her
if selected for the above post.
————————,
Head of the Department.
(Official Seal should be placed).
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
06-682/1

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1288
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and Health for the Sri Lanka Technological Service
Competitive Examination to recruit for the Post of Research
Assistant in Grade III of the  Department of Animal Production
and Health.
02. Examination .— The Examination will be held in September
2014 in Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and
Health. The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be
with the Director General.
03. Condition of the Service .—Recruitment , will be made to the
Post of Research Assistant Grade III Subjected to the General
conditions of the Public Service and the following conditions
governing the appointments of the Public Service.
(i) The selected officer is subjected to the conditions of
serving any part of the Island.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicant should contribute to the Widows’/Widowers’
and Orphan pension fund.
(iii) The Officers, who are recruited under the Open
Competitive examination will be on probation for a period
of 3 years. If a Public officer already confirmed in a
Permanent  post in the Public Service is appointed, he
will be kept under the acting period for a period of one
year. The officers who are appointed by the open
competitive examination should pass the relevant 1st
efficiency bar examination before confirmed in the post.
(iv) All the officers who have recruited for the public service
should obtain the proficiency in an official language in
addition to the official language medium in which they
gained qualifications to enter the Public Service within 05
years from the date of appointment.
(v) The selected officer is subjected to the orders of the Public
Service Commission Provisions of the Establishment
Code, Financial Regulations, and conditions and
regulations issued by the Government from time to time
and the regulations orders of the Ministry and
Department.
04. Salary Scale .— MN-3-2006A - Post of Research Assistant
Grade III. Rs. 15,005 - 4 X 180 - 6 X 240 - 11 X 320 - 20 X 360 -
Rs. 27,885. (Monthly  as per Public Administration Circular
07/2008)
This post is entitled to the Salary Steps Rs. 15,005 - 4 X 180 -
6 X 240 - Rs. 17,165.
The officer of the Grade III should pass the 1st efficiency bar
examination before the 3rd increment.
05. Age Limit .— (a) Should not be less than 18 years and not
more than 30 years at the Closing date of the application.
06. Educational & Vocational Qualification :
6.1 Educational Qualification .— G . C. E. (A.L) in three
subjects in the stream of Science/Maths including two
subjects from Chemistry, Agriculture and Biology and
pass the examination in one and the same sitting.
and
Should have passed G. C. E. (ordinary Level) examination
in one sitting , in Six subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil/ English Language, Science, Mathematics and one
other subject.
Vocational Qualifications .— Should have obtained the
two year Diploma certificate in Animal Husbandry from
an Institute recognized by the commission of Tertiary
and V ocational Education.
or
Should have completed NVQ 6th standard of National
V ocational Qualification relevant to the field of Animal
Husbandry.
or
Should have obtained other technical qualifications similar
to the above mentioned qualifications in all respects
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission subsequently in consultation with the
ministry of Higher Education and the Institutes issuing
above mentioned technical certificates (Should have
obtained the certificate at the closing date of the
applications)
Note .— Should have obtained qualifications on or before the
closing date of the applications. The applications which
are awaiting results will be rejected.
Physical Fitness .— Should be physically fit and bear an excellent
moral character, the physical fitness should be proved by a medical
certificates.
Other:
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should bear an excellent character.
(iii) Only when the candidate has completed all the
qualifications and the relevant age limit in all respects
at the closing date of the applications it would be
accepted his/her eligibility at sitting for the competitive
examination of recruiting to the post.
07. Method of Recruitment.— Recruitments will be made on the
results of the written competitive examination and general interview.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1289
The candidates will be called for the interview based on the allocated
vacancies and on the order of the aggregate marks obtained at the
written examination.
Written Examination .— This examination will be comprised
with 02 papers.
Subjects Duration  Maximum Passed
marks marks
1. Intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
2. General paper 01 hour 100 40
(Technical and
subject related test)
08. Examination :
(i) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil and
English Medium.
(ii) Candidates may answer in any language.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the Language
Medium applied at the Examination.
(iv) The examination fee will be Rs. 400.
(v) A money order drawn in favour of the Director General
Animal Production and Health encashable at the post
office Peradeniya should be affixed on the relevant cage
in the application.
(vi) Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Test .— This question paper is designed
to examine the applicant’s logical reasoning,
analytical thinking and the ability to take decisions.
(b) General Question paper (Question paper in
Technology and subject related)
(i) Identification and maintenance of laboratory
equipment.
(ii) The tests used for diagnosis
(Pathology, Parasitology, Microbiology,
Serology, Nutrition)
(iii)  The tests used for Animal Husbandry
(Physical tests, Chemical tests, Sensitive tests)
(iv) Cleanliness of the Laboratory, Sterilization,
(v) Obtaining samples, storing and transport.
09. Method of Application. — (i) The application should be
prepared in accordance with the specimen application form attached
to this notification. Application should be prepared on paper 81/2"
x 12"(A4) using both sides of it. The Application Should be sent
under registered cover to reach the Director General, Department
of Animal Production and Health, P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya
on or before 14.07.2014.
The words "Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to
the post of Research Assistant" should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelop clearly. Applications received after the
closing date will be rejected.
Note :
(i) The candidates who are in the Public Service should
forward their application through the Head of the
Department/Institute.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation
that an application has been delayed or lost in the post
will be considered.
(iii) Application will not be acknowledged. A notice
announcing  the date of the examination will be published
in the newspapers. If admission are not received within
four days prior to the date of the examination. the
candidates are requested to inform the Director General,
Department of Animal Production & Health immediately
with the following particulars :
(i) Full name of the applicant;
(ii) Address;
(iii) Date of posting registered No. and post office.
10. The photostat copies of the following should be attached to
the application :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Educational/V ocational Certificates.
Identity of the Candidate.— Every candidate is required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. The following documents are accepted for that purpose.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport. (Issued 3 years prior to the date of the
examination)
Submission of False Information.— If it reveals that a candidate
has not gained the required qualifications to sit for the examination,
his/her candidature can be cancelled before or during the examination
or after the examination it or at any stage. If it appears that a
candidate has submitted false information knowingly he/she will be
dismissed from service.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions pertaining to the appointment to the Public
Service stipulated in the paragraph 03 of this Gazette notification
and rules and regulations for the candidates.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1290
11. The Director General, Department of Animal Production
and Health deserves himself the right to take a decision with regard
to a problem arisen about the number to be recruited. and that will
be the final decision.
Dr. W. K. 
DE SILV A,
Director General of  Animal
Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya.
02nd June, 2014.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEP ARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF RESEARCH ASSISTANT IN GRADE III
OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2014
(For office use only)
Medium selected
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials (in block letters) :–––––––––.
(Example : SILVA  B. A.)
1.2 Full Name in Sinhala :––––––––––.
1.3 N. I. C. No. :––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Private Address :––––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––.
2.3 The address to which the admission card to be sent :––––.
03. 3.1 Sex (Mark the relevant cage)
Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years: Months: Days :
3.4 Civil Status : (Mark the relevant cage)
Married :
Single
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) : Examination
Year: :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L)  Examination :
Year: :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.3 ( a) The Institute from where the vocational Qualifications
obtained :––––––––––.
(b) The year in which the vocational Qualifications
obtained :––––––––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous posts held (if available
only)
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the Post Office to which the examination fees had
been paid :
Money Order No. :––––––––––.
The examination fee is Rs. 400. It can be paid to any post office
in the island in favour of the  Director General, Animal
Production and Health.
Affix the receipt here.
07. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any of
the information furnished by me is found to be false or incorrect,
I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed
without any compensation if such detection is made after
appointment.
————————,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1291
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent post in
the Public Service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs/Miss ……………… is
serving in this Department as a ………………… and the foregoing
particulars were checked by me and found to be correct. He/she
could/could not be released from the present post held by him/her
if selected for the above post.
————————,
Head of the Department,
(Rubber Stamp should be used)
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
06-682/2
––––––––––––––––
Amendment
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of  Mass Media and Information
LIMITED/OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION - 2012 FOR
RECRUITMENT TO EXECUTIVE SERVICE CADRE
CLASS I GRADE III IN THE SRI LANKA PRINTING SERVICE
IN THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
THIS is hereby inform to all candidates that the specimen
application for the recruitment to Executive Service Cadre Class I
Grade III in the Sri Lanka Printing Service in the Department of
Government Printing published in the Government Gazette No.
1,866 on 06.06.2014 has amended as follows :–
Internal candidates should be prepared their applications from
1.0 to 3.11 on to the first page and from 4.0 to 8.0 on to the second
page and the rest to the third page.
C
HARITHA HERATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Mass Media and Information.
23rd June, 2014.
1.0 Medium :
Language medium for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant number should be written in the cage)
2.1 The post apply :
* Assistant Government Printer (Production) - 01
* Assistant Government Printer
(Maintenance - Printing Machanical) - 02
* Assistant Government Printer
(Maintenance - Electronics) - 03
* Assistant Government Printer
(Printing Editor) - 04
(Write the relevant number of the post you applied in
the blank box)
2.2 Do you intend to forward an application to the open
Competitive Examination ? :–––––––––––.
3.0 Personal Information :
3.1 Last Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Example : (SILV A, A. B.)
3.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
3.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
3.4 Permanent Address : (In English capital letters) :–––––––.
3.5 Permanent address (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
3.6 Gender :
(Male - 0, Female - 1)
(Write relevant number in the cage)
3.7 Civil Status :
(Single - 1, Married - 2)
(Write relevant number  in the cage)
3.8 National Identity Card Number :
2.9 Date of Birth :
Year :  Month :  Date :
2.10 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :  Months : Days :
2.11 Telephone Number (if any) :
4.0 Information regarding the Qualification :––––––––––––.
4.1 The current occupation and section in the Department of
Government Printing :––––––––––––.
4.2 The number of courses  you have followed in the printing
and the name of the  institutes :––––––––––––.
5.0 Receipt
(Firmly paste the receipt here)
(Keep the photocopy of the receipt with you)

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
1292
6.0 Applicant's Declaration :
I, do hereby declare that the foregoing particulars  are true and
correct according to the printing minute in the Gazette Extraordinary
publication No. 1,816/12 on 26.06.2013 and have fulfilled the required
qualifications. I have hereby pasted the receipt of the fees (on ...........
No. ..................) on the application. I agree abide by any decision to
cancel my examination candidature before in the Course of or after
the examination and I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations
stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
7.0 Attestation of the signature of the Applicant:
(According to notice 9C  of the Gazette notification)
I, do hereby certify that   .......................... (Full name) who
submits this application is personally known to me and that he/she
placed his/her signature before me on this ..........................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attesting Officer :––––––––––.
Occupation:––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
 (Official seal)
8.0 Certification of the Head of the Section of the Applicant :
I, do hereby certify that the applicant is currently .............
(designation) of ...........................(Branch) of Government Printing
Department and forward the application for further requirements.
––––––––––,
Head of the Section.
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Head of the Section :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
9.0 Certification of the Head of the Section of  Personal files :
I, do hereby certify the applicant has fulfilled required
qualifications stipulated in the Gazette Extraordinary  publication
Number 1,816/12 on 26.06.2013 and also clause 3.0 of Sri Lanka
Printing Service minute and he/she is not guilty of any disciplinary
inquiry since .............. 2014 for the last five (5) years.
––––––––––,
Head of the Section of
Personal Files.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Head of Personal Files :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
06–214
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.