

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2433
2433
wxl 1"891 - 2014 fkdjeïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'11'28
No. 1,891 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2436
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2445
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th December, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th
December, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,890 of 21.11.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2434
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2435
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2436
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES
National Institute of Social Development
01. POST.– Additional Director General (Academic) (Number
of Posts - 01).
02. Age.– Shall be not less than 25 years of age and not more
than 55 years of age (However, maximum age limit shall not
be applicable to the candidates serving in Government,
Provincial Public Servie or statutory boards of the
Government).
03. Educational Qualifications.– Basic Degree in Sociology, from
a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission, with a Post Graduate Degree in Social Work.
04. Experience.– Minimum experience of 15 years at Senior
Managerial Level, in Public Service or Government
Institution with an excellent service record. Minimum of 3
years out of this service shall be after obtaining Post Graduate
degree in Social Work.
05. Additional professional Qualifications. – Management of
Programmes in the field of Social Service/Social Welfare/
Social Development and being a memeber of a Professional
Body on Social Work.
06. Salary Scale. – HM2-1-Rs. 44,030 -12x1,310 - Rs. 59,750
(Monthly).
02. Post.– Professor (Number of posts - 01).
02.Age.– Shall be below 55 years.
03.Qualifications.– Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences from
a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission with a 1st Class or 2nd Upper Division ; or
A Masters Degree not elss than one year duration from a
university recognized by the University Grants
Commission/or a recognized Higher Educational Institute
in Social Work, Social Sciences, Social Welfare, Social
Policy, Counseling, Community Development or a related
field ; and
A PhD from a University or a Recognized Higher
Educational Institute by the University Grants
Commission in Social Work or Social Sciences (Priority
will be given to applicants with a PhD in Social Work) ;
and
Experience not elss than 10 years in University level
teaching and research with sufficient experience in
Education Management after obtaining the PhD ; or
10 years of experience in Senior Managerial Level at the
National Institute of Social Development with a PhD in
Social Work or Social Sciences from a University or a
Higher Educational Institute recognized by the University
Grants Commission ; and
A very good working knowledge in Enlighs.
04.Salary Scale. – -HM2-3-2006 Rs. 47,245 -12x1,310 -
Rs. 62,965 (Monthly).
03. Post.– Senior Lecturer (Number of Posts - 01).
02. Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (maximum age limit shall not be
applicable to the candidates serving in Government
Provincial Public Service or Statutory boards of the
Government).
03. Educational Qualifications.– Bachelor's Degree in Social
Science from a University recognized by the University
Grants Commission with a Doctoral Degree (PhD) in
Social Work.
04. Experience.– Experience not less than 10 years in Social
work and Teaching at a Government Education Institute
or recognized institution by the Government.
05. Salary Scale .– AR-2-2006A - Rs. 34,550 -10x925 -
Rs. 43,880 (Monthly).
04. Post.– Senior Research Officer (Number of Posts - 01).
02. Age.– Shall be not elss than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (Maximum age limit shall not be
applicable to the candidates serving in Government
Provincial Pubilc Service or Statutory Boards of the
Government.)
03. Educational Qualifications 
:
(a) A Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences with a
Doctoral Degree (PhD) in Social Sciences from a
University recognized by the University Grants
Commission ;
and
Experience of not less than 10 years in the Sector of
Social Work Research in a government or a recognized
institution by the government ;
or
(a) Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences with a post
graduate degree in Social Sciences from a university
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
(b) Experience of not less than 15 years in the Sector of
Social work research in government institute or a
recognized institution by the government.
04. Salary Scale .– AR-2-2006A - Rs. 34,550 -10x925 -
Rs. 43,880 (Monthly).
05. Post.– Audio Visual Technician (Number of Post - 01).
2. Age limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not
mroe than 45 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2437
03. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Shall have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) with
six (06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala
Mathematics and two other subjects in one sitting
; and
(b) Shall have passed G . C. E. (Advance Level) in Science
stream with all subjects (except general test) and
have obtained the level required to follow a tertiary
education course.
(c) Technological Skills/Proficiencis.
04. Salary Scale. – MA-2-2-2006A - Rs. 14,610 -10x145 -
7x170 - 4x290 - 20x345 - Rs. 25,310 (Monthly).
06. Post.– Audio Visual Assistant (Number of Posts - 01)
02.Age limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years and not more
than 45 years. (The maximum age limit shall not be
applicable for the candidates who are already serving in
this institution).
03.Educational Qualifications :
(a) Shall have passed at least two (2) subjects at G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Skills/proficiencies.
(b) Shall have successfully completed Level 2 or 3 of
National V ocational Qualification relevant to the post
as determined by the Tertiary and V ocational
Educational Commission.
Professional Knowledge :
(c) The candidate shall have sound knowledge in the
fundamentals of operating electronic and audio visual
appliances and shall carry out operating activities.
Five year's work experience in a reocgnized institute
on security and maintenance.
Note.– Skills on photography shall be taken into special
consideration.
04.Salary Scale.– PL-2-2006 - Rs. 12,330 -10x110 -10x120
-10x130 - 12x140 - Rs. 17,610 (Monthly).
Conditions/Nature of the appointments :
1. The appointment are permanent.
2. The Employees are entitled for the contributions to the
EPF and ETF.
3. All appointments shall subject to a probation period of 03
years.
Note.– The above vacancies exist at the Main Office at
Nawala, Rajagiriya and the selected employees shall
serve only at the main office.
Service Condition.– All Appointments made shall be conformed
to the provisions of the National Institute of the Social Development,
Act, No. 41 of 1992 and other government regulations.
Application along with a Bio data should be sent by the registered
post to the following address on or before 15.12.2014. Name of the
post shall be written clearly on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and the applicants employed in the government sector
shall forwarded their applications through the Head of the Institute.
Dr. R
IDDLEY JAYASINGHE,
Director General,
National Institute of Social Development.
National Institute of Social Development,
No. 488A, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya,
12th November, 2014.
11–767
––––––––––––––––––––
THE  GOVERNMENT  OFFICER'S  BENEFIT
ASSOCIATION
Posts of Secretary and Accountant
APPLICATION are invited for the Posts of "Secretary and
Accountant" of this Association from Officer's (Male or Female)
those who have following quailfications.
(i) Supra or Class I officers, in service of the Public
Management Assistant Service,
(ii) Applicant should be a permanent resident within 30
miles from Colombo,
(iii) Applicant should below 57 years of age on 01.01.2015,
(iv) Applicant should have minimum 15 years Government
Service experience,
(v) Applicant should be able to work in Sinhala and English
Languages,
(vi) Preference will be given to applicants who are members
of the Association and those who process Accounting
and Administration quailfications, Computer Knowledge
and experience and knowledge in Tamil Language.
Salary scale applicable to this is as follows :
Consolidated salary and additional allowance of 50% percent of
same.
The selected candidate will be seconded for service in the
Association for a period of 02 years. He will be required to furnish
security in sum of Rs. 10,000 through a Guarantee Bond of the
Insurance Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2438
Applications in the applicant own handwriting giving full details
should be sent through the Head of Department to reach the
undersigned on or before 31st December 2014 under registered
cover.
W. L. T. S
UMATHIRATHNA,
President,
Government Officer's Benefit Association.
No. 65/1,
Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 02.
11–881
––––––––––––––––––
SRI   LANKA   REGULAR   AIR   FORCE
Airmen/Airwomen Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force
for Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given below :–
Regular Airmen/Airwomen :
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :-
(1) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Radio Technician (Male),
(b) Telecommunication Technician (Male).
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings including
an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil, English
Languages, Mathematics and Science. A credit pass
for Mathematics/Science is essential.
(c) Computer Technician (Male) :
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings an
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and
English Languages. Successful completion of training
course and work experience in IT discipline will be
considered as added qualification for selection.
(2) Logistics Trade :
(a) Logistics Assistant (Male/Female) :
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings including
an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language and a
credit in Mathematics/Science/Business and Studies.
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office
Package) will be as added qualification.)
(b) Uniform outfitter (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings including
an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. Operating
skill of Juki machine (Over lock, Button hole, Button
atendant, Double needle, Bar tack), designing skill of
patterns according to the measurement. Clothes
cutting and technical knowledge of machine can be a
extra qualification.
(3) Musician Trades :
(a) Musician (Male) - (Military Band, Bag Pipe, papara
Band, Rock Band, Eastern Band, Calypso Band,
Beat Group, Oriental Orchestra and Sound
Operators).
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination at not more than two sittings including
an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. Extra
ordinary ability for playing instrument or singing.
(b) Dancer (Male/Female) - Passes in 06 subjects at the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two
sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language. Suitable figure for dancing, ability for
singing, playing dancing instruments and capability
for make-up.
Regular Airmen Direct Entry Enlistment :
2. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :
(1) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Trades:
(a) Air Radio Technician (Male),
(b) Telecommunication Technician (Male).
Successful completion of two year fulltime National
Certificate Course in Engineering Craft Practice in
Electronics/Telecommunications/Electrical at a
Technical College recognized by the Ministry of
V ocational and Technical Training or equivalent.
(c) Computer Technicain (Male)
Successful completion of a minimum of 6 month
fulltime course in IT disciplines. Work experience in
following areas, together to be added to count
minimum of 2 years period.
- Networking
- Software Development
- Hardware/Software repairs.
Successful completion of a minimum of 12 month
part time course in IT disciplines. Work experience
in following areas, together to be added to count
minimum of 2 years period. (Course duration will be
considered as 50% period).
- Networking
- Software Development
- Hardware/Software repairs.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2439
Selected candidates for the Direct Entry enlistments
will be enlisted to the rank of Leading Aircraftsman
by their qualifications.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfil the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force :-
(1) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(2) Age : Regular Airmen not less than 18 years
and not more than 23 years as at 20th
January, 2015.
Regular Airwomen not less than 18
years and not more than 22 years as
at 20th January 2015.
Direct Entry Airmen not less than 18
years and not more than 28 years as
at 20th January 2015.
(3) Height : 5 feet 5 inches and above (Male)
5 feet 3 inches and above (Female)
(4) Weight : 17 <BMI< 26 (Male)
17<BMI<25 (Female)
Weight (Kg)
BMI = –––––––––
Height
2 (m)
(5) Vision Colour : CP2
Standard
(6) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(7) Civil Status : Direct Entry Regular Airmen are not
allowed to marry until one year after
the completion of the Basic Trade
Training Course.
Regular Airmen are not allowed to
marry until the completion of two
years from the date of enlistment and
until one year after the completion of
the Basic Trade Training Course and
which ever is later.
Dancers trade Airwomen is not
allowed to marry until the completion
of five years from the date of
enlistment.
4. Candidates who do not possess the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01/02 "a" and
paragraph 03 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the
height, weight and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height,
weight and vision in below the standard specified in the Gazette
Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be
interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to
the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force
be considered even though he/she may not have the requisite height
provided he/she possess the requisite academic and professional
qualifications.
5. Conditions of Service :
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force Act
and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect
from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat course. After
that they will be followed the selected trades trade course
(except Direct Entry Airmen). They will be required to
perform combat duties and any type of duty, day and
night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of
Sri Lanka or abroad.
6. Terms of Engagement.– Direct Entry candidates will be enlisted
to the third class of the rank of Leading Aircraftsman by their
qualifications and other candidates will be enlisted to the third class
of the rank of Aircraftsman in the Regular Air Force and shall be
required to serve for 12 years in which 08 years will have to be
served continuously whilst serving a further 04 years in the Regular
Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for
suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend for further service on completion
of eight years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the
Sri Lanka Air Force.
7. Official Language Requirements.-  The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
8. Pay and Allowances :
(a) the scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen
shall be as follows :
Aircraftman - Rs. 173,100 - 6x1,740 -19x2,040 - Rs. 222,300
per annum.
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320 -4x1,740 -19x2,040 -
Rs. 222,300 per annum.
Corporal - Rs. 183,540 -10x2,040 -9x2,880 - Rs. 229,860
per annum.
Sergeant - Rs. 187,620 -3x2,040 -9x2,880 - 3x3,840 -
Rs. 231,180 per annum.
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700 -1x2,040 -9x2,880 -3x3,840 -
Rs. 231,180 per annum.
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500 -7x2,880-  14x3,840 -
Rs. 273,420 per annum.
Master Warrant Officer - Rs. 223,500 -13x3,840 - Rs. 273,420
per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to Airmen increments in promotions will be
based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade
efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowances Rs. 7,800 per month.
2. Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
3. Additional hard allowance.– Rs. 3,900 per month for
those serving in operational areas.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2440
4. Speical allowance-I. – Rs. 2,400 per month (Rs. 80
will be paid per day).
5. Special allowance-II.– 15% of consolidated salary and
Rs. 750- w. e. f. May, 2013.
6. Incentive allowances. – After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
7. Ration allowance. – Rs. 13,197 per month for living
out Airmen (Free messing for living - in Airmen).
8. Uniform upkeep allowance. – Rs. 170 per month.
9. Interim allowance. – Rs. 1,000 per month.
10. Accommodation.– Free for personnel living-in.
11. Travelling.– Three sets of holiday railway warrants
per year (For Airmen/Airwomen/Wife/Husband and
Children as applicable). One set of railway warrants
per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-
in Airmen).
12. Disturbance allowance .– When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
13. Quailfication pay.– For personnel who have qualified
in special courses or possess qualifications, which are
of special value to the service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month).
14. Good conduct Badge pay .– Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard (Rs. 30 to Rs. 511.50 per month).
15. Re-engagement pay. – Personnel are entitled to Rs.
300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
16. Medical facilities.– provided through Air Force expense
for Airmen/Airwomen and their married families.
17. Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B.
buses for living out Airmen/Airwomen within a radius
of 30 miles (48 km.).
18. Following rent allowance are payable to married
Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of government
married quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
19. Instructional pay.– (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
20. Other allowance.– (Separation and overseas etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
21. Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended
from time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the
Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows' and
Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme
Regulations 1970.
9. Instructions to applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
filled with as much details as possible.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of
the following documents when summoned for interviews
or when called upon to do so :–
1. Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate
issued for the purpose of the Education Code will
not be accepted) ;
2. Certificate in support of the educational
qualifications required ;
3. Certificates for Trade/Technical training and or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution will be an added advantage ;
4. Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the principal of the last school
attended and the other from the responsible person
who has the know of the applicant for more than
two years or from the present employer (If
employed) ;
5. Certificate in support of sports activities and
cadetting etc.
10. Interviews for male candidates will be held on 05, 08 and
09th December 2014 and for female candidates on 10 and 11th
December 2014 from 9.00 a. m. hrs. to 1.00 p. m. hrs. at Sri Lanka
Air Force Trade Training School Ekala. Candidates considered
sutiable for the itnerview will be required to appear for an interview
at their own expense before an Air Force Recruiting Board.
11. Application of candidates who fail to produce document
when required to do so will not be considered.
12. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board.
13. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interviews, he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates
who do not have the National Identity Card could produce some
other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates
will be enlisted with out the National Identity Card.
14. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to high marks merit at these interviews.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2441
15. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his  testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification
of such candidate.
16. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
17. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
K. A. G
UNATILLEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE SRI
LANKA AIR FORCE
1. Full Name :–––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
2. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
3. Applied Trade :–––––––––––.
4. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
5. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
6. Nearest Air Force Station :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
8. District :–––––––––––.
9. Electorate :––––––––––.
10. GS Division:–––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
12. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
13. Age (as at 31st July 2014) :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
14. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
15. Gender :–––––––––––.
16. Height :– Feet.......'  Inches ...........
17. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G . C. E. (A/L)/Examination  :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
(Eg.– Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
20. Details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School or with outside
organizations. :–––––––––––.
22. If previously applied for the Armed Forces of Police give
detials :–––––––––––.
23. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? if so, give details :–––––––––––.
24. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published
in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–848
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of
Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule
hereto.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2442
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births,
Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in
the area.
02. Both males and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more
than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc.,
could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional
Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the
address given in the Schedule on or before 29th December, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
11th November, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara Thihagoda Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths Di strict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Thihagoda Division and Marriages General, District Secretariat,
(General) Gangabadapattuwa Division Matara.
11–870
–––––––––––––––
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called in terms of the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the areas indicated in the following Schedule
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized University
or a Maulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a
holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
qualification or a retired public servant who has held office in staff
grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married persons over 40 years, should be
physically fit and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim
Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
exclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Applications, as per specimen below, should be sent by registered
post to reach me on or before 31st December, 2014 with words
“Quazi” written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Originals
of documents should not be forwarded with the application.
W. K. D. W
IJERATHNE,
Seninor Assistant Secretary
for Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Colombo 12,
10th November, 2014.
SCHEDULE
01. Galle - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Galle in the Galle district under (Chapter 115) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
02. Colombo West - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in Dehiwala,
Mount-Lavinia, Ratmalana, Nugegoda, Papiliyana,
Maharagama, Pannipitiya, Homagama, Polgasovita, Ingiriya,
Rajagiriya, Battaramulla and Athurugiriya areas in the
Colombo Judicial Division under (Chapter 115) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2443
APPLICATION FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF QUAZI UNDER THE MUSLIM MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE ACT (CHAPTER 115) AS AMENDED BY ACTS, NO. 1 OF
1965 AND NO. 32 OF 1969, FOR THE ........................... QUAZI DIVISION
1. Full Name  :
2. Name with Initial :
3. Permanent Residence :
4. Postal Address :
5. Date of Birth :
6. Age :
7. Race :
8. Religion :
9. N. I. C. No. :
10. Telephone No. :
11. Educational Qualifications :
12. Professional Qualifications :

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2444
13. Languages which the applicant can read and write :
14. Does the Applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? :
15. Is He Married ? :
16. Is Wife living ?
17. Past and Present Occupations (with date) :
From To Occupation
18. Value of Possessed by Applicant : Rs.
19. Monthly Income : Rs.
20. Amount of debts if any : Rs.
21. Were you actively engaged in politics during the last ten years ? :
22. Are you an income tax payer ? :
23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :
24. Particulars of Court convictions if any :
25. Personal referees (They should be responsible person who known you well) :
(1) (2)
Name : Name :
Address : Address :
Occupation : Occupation :
Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you :
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note :  Attach all copies of the relevant certificates with this.
11–919

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2445
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LAND  COMMISSIONER  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post
of Colonization Officer, Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service in the Land Commissioner General's
Department - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby called for, from citizen of Sri Lanka,
possessing qualification stipulated in para. 02 below, for the Open
Competitive Examination, for the purpose of filling vacancies
existing in the post of Colonization Officer, Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Technological Service, in the Land Commissioner General’s
Department. This examination will be held in Colombo, in December
2014, by the Land Commissioner General’s Department.
01. Method of Recruitment .– Vacancies not exceeding 70%,
existing in the Post of Colonization Officer Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Technological Service, will be filled on the results of the
written examination and interview, from among candidates who
have fulfilled the eligibility mentioned in para 02 below. The
appointments will be made by the Land Commissioner General, on
the powers delegated upon him by the Public Service Commission.
02. Qualifications :
(ii) Educational Qualificatinos  : Should have passed three
Science Subjects in one sitting at the G .C.E. (Advanced
Level) Examination, with passes in Zoology, Botany/
Biology and Agricultural Science ;
and
Should have passes six (06) Subjects in one sitting, at the
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) with
credit passes in SinhalalTamil/English, Science,
Mathematics and in one more Subject.
(ii) Professional Qualifications : Should have obtained a two
- year Diploma in Agriculture, awarded by an Institution
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.
03. Salary Scale and Segment .– The consolidated monthly salary
assigned to this post is :--Rs.15,005 - 4x180-6x 240 -11 x 320-
20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885 Salary Code No: MN - 3 - 2006A.
04. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more
than 30 years of age as on the last date for accepting applications.
05.Physical fitness and other condition of service :
(a) Each applicant should be of excellent moral character and
physically sounds.
 (b) Should be bound to serve in any part of the Island.
(c) Should obtain the stipulated language Proficiency, in
compliance with the Sri Lanka Technical Service Minute.
(d) This post is permanent and pensionable and will be
subjected to a probation period of three years.
06. Scheme of Examination :
(a) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English.
(b) A candidate should appear to the examination in the
language he or she passed the qualifying examination or in
the official language.
Notes :
(i) The terms “Qualifying examination” above, refer to one
of the examinations, mentioned in para.02.
(ii) A candidate should answer all the question papers in one
language.
(iii) Candidates will not be permitted to change the medium
mentioned in their applications.
07. Syllabus for the written examination :
Name of the Syllabus
Question Paper
 1. Intelligence The question paper consists of questions,
Test so as to make an assessment of the
candidate’s power of logical reasoning,
ability to analyze and capability to draw
sound decisions and inferences.
2.Technological This question paper is structured to cover
Question the system of possession of Lands in Sri
Paper Lanka and its evolution, land Reforms
schemes in Sri Lanka, Agricultural
economy in Sri Lanka and planning and
Management of Settlements. The
candidates are expected to have fair
understanding about the subjects
mentioned below:
1 The system of possession of Lands in Sri
Lanka and its evolution.
- The history about possession of lands
in Sri Lanka.
- Ensuring ownership of lands through
registration of  documents.
- Registering ownership of lands in Sri
Lanka.
II. The Land Reforms Scheme in Sri Lanka.
- The Barren Lands Ordinance
introduced by the British and the
social changes that took place.
- The enactment and commencement of
the Land Development Ordinance in
1935 and granting of ownership of
Lands to the farmers.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2446
- The Land Reform Commission Act
introduced in 1972 and the Land
Reforms which took place, through this
Commission.
III. Agricultural Economy in Sri Lanka.
- The Agricultural policy in Sri Lanka.
- The production of Principal Foods
Crops In Sri Lanka and Conservation
of food.
- Development of Lands and protecting it.
Contribution of Agriculture towards
National Production within Sri Lanka.
- Crops Diversification.
- Administrating Water.
- Conservation of Soil.
IV Planning and Management of Settlements :-
- Basic principles of planning and
management of settlements.
- Survey of Social Economy.
Resettlement.
- Community Developments.
- Development of basic intra structure
facilities.
08. Interview.– A number similar to the number that is expected
to be recruited as per the merit order of the total marks obtained by
the applicants, from among those who have obtained marks more
than 40% in the written examination, will be called for the general
interview: No marks will be given at the interview only the certificates
and the physical fitness will be examined.
09. Conditions of Examination :
(i) Examination Fees.– Fee for this examination is Rs. 500
and should be paid to the credit of Revenue Head
2003-99-00 of the Land Commissioner General, at any
Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat in the
Country, Prior to the last day of acceptance of
applications. The receipt received from the Divisional
Secretariat or the District Secretariat in the name of the
applicant, should be pasted at the appropriate place in
the application without getting detached. This
examination fee paid will not be refunded under any
circumstances either fully or partially. It may be useful
to keep a photocopy of the payment receipt.
(ii) Submitting of Applications :
(a) Applications prepared in accordance to the specimen
application form attached to this notification, should
be sent under registered cover to reach the “Land
Commissioner General, Land Commissioner
General’s Department, 1200/6, “Mihikatha
Medura”, Land Secretariat, Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla”, on or before 19th of December 2014.
Applications received after this date will be rejected.
(b) The words “Open competitive examination for
recruitment to the post of Colonization Officer,
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Technological Service -
2014” should be written on the top left-hand corner
of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
(c) The application should be completed in the .language,
in which the applicant is eligible to sit the
examination.
(d) The applicant’s signature should be attended by an
authorized person. The Signature of the officers
already in government service or provincial
government service should be signal by the respective
Head of the Department or by an officer delegated
by the Head of Department to do so. Signature other
applicants should be attended by one of the following
persons:- Justice of the peace, Commissioner of
Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Principal
of a Government or Director managed school, a
government officer whose annual consolidated salary
is Rs. 240,360 or above, the viharadhipathi of a
Buddhist Temple, Nayaka Thero, a priest-in-charge
of place of worship of any other religion or a priest
of a recognized status, commanding officers of the
three armed forces, an officer in the police service
holding a gazetted post.
10. Admitting to the Examination :
(a) Admission cards will be issued by the Land
Commissioner General to the applicants who had duly
sent in their applications. A notification will be published
in newspapers by the Land Commissioner General
Department as soon as the admission cards are issued. If
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days
of such a notification, steps should be taken to notify
the Land Commissioner General Department in the
manner specified in the press notification. You are
informed to notify the Land Commissioner General
Department with details of your full name, address,
National Identity Card Number and the name of the
examination. If you are an applicant outside Colombo, it
would be appropriate to inform the fax number in a
request letter with all details to the fax number mentioned
in the press notification. When making such inquiries, it
would be more beneficial to keep with you copy of the
applications, copy of the receipt for payment of
examination fees, the registered letter receipt, to be
forwarded if necessary. The admission Card where the
signature is attended should be submitted to the officer
Name of the Syllabus
Question Paper

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2447
in charge of the examination centre by the candidates.
Candidates who have not submitted their duly attended
admission cards will not be allowed to sit the
examinations.
(b) Attention of the Aplicants is required to the rules and
regulation to be adhered to by them. As published in
part I section (II A) of the gazette.
(c) Examination will be conducted in Sinhala / Tamil / English
medium change of medium applied for will not be
subsequently changed.
(d) Only the under mentioned documents will be accepted
to prove the identity of the candidates at the examination.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the commissioner
for Registration of Person.
(ii) A Valid Passport.
(e) Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate should not
be construed as he / she has fulfilled the eligibility
requirement to sit the examination.
(f) Candidates are subjected to the instruction issued by the
Land Commissioner General, regarding the holding of
the Examination. It such instructions are violated; action
will be taken by the Land Commissioner General to
cancel his / her candidature.
11. The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission,
circulars issued from time to time regarding the Public Service and
Provisions and conditions stipulated in the Sri Lanka Technological
Service Minute and correction made thereof, are also applicable to
this past.
12. It is found that any candidate is not eligible to sit this
examination; his / her candidature could be cancelled at any time
before, during or after the examination. If it is found that any
information submitted by a candidate willfully knowing that it is
false or else, if any important information is willfully suppressed,
he / she would be liable to be dismissed from the Public Service.
13. Any matters not stipulated in these regulations, will be
complied with the decision of the Public Service Commission.
14. If any inconsistency or discrepancy is found in this
notification which is in Sinhala, Tamil and English, the notification
in Sinhala shall prevail.
R. P. R. R
AJAPAKSHA,
Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
1200/6, “Mihikatha Medura”,
Rajamalwatte Road,
Battaramulla,
28th November, 2014
(for Officer use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
LAND COMMISSIONER GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF COLONIZATION
OFFICERS GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2014
Medium of Examination, according Sinhala - 2
to Gazette notification, para. 06 T amil - 3
(Medium applied for, shall not be English - 4
Allowed to be changes subsequently.)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1. Name :
1.1 Name with initials (In English capital letters) :––––––.
Example: GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Full Name (In English capital letters) :––––––––.
1.3 Full name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
02 Personal Address (IN English Capital letters) :
2.1 Personal Address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
(Admission card will be sent to this address)
03. Gender :
Female - 1, Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
04 National Identity Card Number :
5. Ethnic Group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil- 2, Indian Tamil- 3,
Muslim - 4, Others - 5)
(Indicate there event number in the cage)
06. 6.1 Marital Status:
(Married - 2, Unmarried - 1)
(Indicate there event number in the cage) :
6.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date:
6.3 Age as at December 14, 2014 :
Years: Months: Days
07. Indicate your qualifications which make you eligible to sit this
examination as per gazette notification para. 02 I and II.
(i) Educational Qualifications :
G .C.E. (O/L) Examination :
Index Number :––––––––––.  Year :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
............................ ................ ........................ ..............
............................ ................ ........................ ..............
............................ ................ ........................ ..............
............................ ................ ........................ ..............
............................ ................ ........................ ..............

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2448
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination:
Index Number :––––––––––.  Year :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
............................ ................ ........................ ..............
............................ ................ ........................ ..............
............................ ................ ........................ ..............
(ii) Professional Educations :–––––––––––.
08. Paste the receipt of payment of Examination Fees in the
application without getting detached :
(i) Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––.
(ii) Office where money paid :––––––––––.
(iv) Amount paid (Rupees) :––––––––––.
(Retaining a photo copy of the payment receipt will facilitate
subsequent inquiries)
09. Declaration of the applicant :
I declare that the information furnished by me here is true and
accurate to the best of my knowledge and beliefs and that the
receipt number ............... dated ........................, paid by me for
this examination is pasted here too. Also I agree to adhere to the
rules and regulations imposed by the Land Commissioner General,
pertaining to this examination. It I am found to be ineligible according
to the conditions of this examination, before, during or after the
examination I would abide by the decision cancels my candidature.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
10. Attestation of Signature :
I hereby certify that the applicant named ..................................
in personally known to me and that he/she placed his/her signature
before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of attester.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address (Confirm by placing rubber stamps) :––––––––––.
11. If the applicant is in the Government Service, certificate by the
Head of Department :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss  ................... who is submitting
this application, is a temporary/permanent employee of this
Department/Ministry at present, and that he/she placed his/her
signature before me.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––.
11-888
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers’ Colleges  2015/2016
01. APPLICATIONS are invited from teachers who posses the
following qualifications to follow the Teacher Education Training
Courses in Government Teachers’ Colleges.
1.1. Untrained teachers serving in Governm ent Schools who
have obtained their formal appointments signed by the
Secretary of Public Service Commission, the Secretary of
Education Service Committee or by the Secretary of the
Provincial Public Service Commission.
1.2. T eachers who have obtained appointments approved by
the Provincial Director of Education and included in the
list of names of Private Schools certified by the Director
of Private Schools in the Ministry of Education.
1.3. Pirivena Teachers who have obtained appointments
approved by the Provincial Director of Education and
registered in the Pirivena Education Branch of the Ministry
of Education.
1.4. Teachers who have been certified by the relevant Teacher
Training Authorities as having not completed their course
of studies in Distance Training, Princett or Non-graduate
Weekend Teacher Training Programme.
02. Special Instructions :
2.1 Selections will be made according to the vacancies existing
in Teachers’ Colleges and based on the seniority in
assuming duties in the school. Teachers will not be able
to get their promotion in the teacher service without due
professional qualifications since it will affect the quality
education development. In consideration of all these facts
all Non-graduate untrained teachers are expected to
complete their training.
2.2 This course will be conducted as a two year residential
training and in instances where residential facilities are
not available, permission will be granted to reside within
the vicinity of the Teachers’ College after obtaining
written approval from the Principal.
2.3 It will not be possible to provide the nearest Teachers’
College as the conducting of the course in the respective
Teachers’ Colleges will be decided based on the facilities
available in Teachers’ Colleges.
2.4 During the period of undergoing training in the Teachers’
College, trainees should refrain from following any other
courses or to appear for examinations. Disciplinary action
will be taken after conducting a formal investigation relating
to the information received in this regard and those who
leave the courses.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2449
2.5 This course is not applicable for the following teachers :
(a) The teachers already in the Teachers’ Colleges or
completed a teacher education training course at a
Teachers’ College,
(b) Appointment of Graduate Trainee Teachers or
Graduate Management Assistants or teachers who
have an appointment equivalent to a graduate
appointment,
(c) Teachers who have not fulfilled the qualification
mentioned in Item No. 07 in this Notification,
Necessary action will be taken for the teachers who
have admitted to this teacher training course without
the qualifications according to the above instructions,
by cancelling the teacher training course while training
or by cancelling the teacher training certificate if
after the completion of the teacher training course.
2.6 Every candidate should submit the following documents
at the date of registration to the teacher training course.
(a) Duly completed Bond,
(b) A copy of the Agreement signed between the
government or the board of management to serve for
05 years continuously in the schools appointed after
the completion of the teacher training course,
2.7 It is compulsory for the teachers appointed under the
District Service basis after the month of April 1982, to
serve in the Districts of first appointment school after
the completion of the teacher training course
2.8 No permission is given to the teacher trainees to withdraw
from the teacher training course. If so, a nominal fee with
an additional charge should be charged and credited to the
government account to cover the expenses of the trainee
during the training period.
2.9 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the
information in this Gazette Notification, the decision of
the Secretary – Education will be the final decision.
03.(i) Trainees whose general conduct found to be inconsistent
with college discipline and diligence in studies is not up
to the standard expected by the Principal of the Teachers’
College are liable to be discontinued from pursuing their
training and will be sent back to their schools. Any trainee
who does not have 80% attendance and participation for
the course will not be eligible to sit the Teachers’ College
Final Examination. However, the Secretary, Education
reserves the right to make final decision related to this
matter.
(ii) Leave:
Two years full-pay study leave will be granted for
institutional training. All trainees are required to devote
this two year period entirely for their training. However,
under special circumstances a trainee could be granted a
limited number of casual leave only if the Principal is
satisfied with the necessity. It is necessary that prior
approval of the Principal should be obtained for same.
Leave obtained in this manner should not exceed ten days
per year.
A trainee whose progress in studies is found to be
unsatisfactory owing to obtaining of excessive leave is
liable to be discontinued from training and to be sent back
to school. Any medical leave taken should be supported
by a Medical Certificate obtained from a Government
Medical Officer.
04.Trained Teacher Certificate will be awarded to those who
successfully complete the internal tests and passing the final
examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations after following the two year training course.
05.Salary Scale.– In accordance with the amendments made to
the teacher service minute, only trained teachers will be absorbed
to the teacher service on a fixed salary scale.
06.(i) Every candidate will be trained in the subject indicated in
the appointment letter. However, teachers who have
obtained appointments for other subjects can apply only
for the Special Education course. The teachers who have
been appointed as Government teachers and whose subject
is not mentioned in the appointment letter, could apply
for training, in one of the subjects they have passed in the
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination. The candidates are expected
to submit a letter approved by the head of the institution
at the interview to say that they are teaching the relevant
subject. Those, whose subject not indicated in the
appointment letter, will be considered as Primary
Education Teachers.
When the subject is not indicated in the letters of
appointments of Government approved Private Schools
teachers and Pirivena teachers they will be selected for
training according to the subject taught by them.
Submission of a copy of the Time Table approved and
signed by the head of the institution is essential.
(ii) In case of insufficient number of applicants to a course,
the Secretary to the Ministry of Education will decide on
conducting the course.
Course No. Name of the Course
i. 01 Sinhala
ii. 02 Primary Education
iii. 03 Sociology / Social Studies
iv. 04 Science
v. 05 Mathematics
vi. 06 Agriculture
vii. 07 Home Science
viii. 08 English
ix. 09 Buddhism
x. 10 Christianity / Roman Catholism
xi. 11 Hinduism
xii. 12 Islam

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2450
xiii. 13 Art
xiv . 14 Music
xv. 15 Dancing
xvi. 16 Arabic
xvii. 17 Special Education
xviii. 18 Handicrafts and Technology
xix. 19 Commerce
xx. 20 Tamil
xxi. 21 Physical Education
xxii. 22 Second National Language
(Sinhala / Tamil)
07.(i) Eligibility.– Every candidate should have fulfilled the
following conditions.
I. Should posses a good character,
II. Should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka,
III. Should have passed six subjects including
Mathematics and First Language at the G.C.E.(O/L)
or N.C.G.E Examination in not more than 02 sittings,
IV . Should have three months service as a teacher by
28th November, 2014.  (This is applicable to teachers
who are working in the Government Schools),
V . All candidates should prove their type of
appointment by producing their original Letter of
First Appointment.
(ii) Candidates who select the under mentioned courses should
possess the qualifications mentioned below in addition
to the above qualifications.
(a) Sinhala Course –  Should have obtained a Credit Pass
for Sinhala at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination
(b) Science Course :
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit Passes at
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the
Senior School Certificate Examination for Physics,
Botany, Biology, Zoology, Chemistry, Mathematics
(Biology will not be considered along with Botany
and Zoology) ; or
(ii) Should have passed in Science and Mathematics
with a Credit Pass for Science in the New Syllabus
; or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
(c) Mathematics Course–
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit passes
in Physics, Applied Mathematics, Advanced
Mathematics, Elementary Mathematics, Pure
Mathematics, Mathematics, Science at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the Senior
School Certificate Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in Mathematics and Science with
Credit Pass for Mathematics in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination
(d) Agriculture Course–
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass in one of the
following subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
(Old Syllabus) or at the Senior School Certificate
Examination Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany,
Zoology ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes in Science and
Agriculture with a Credit Pass for Agriculture in
the New Syllabus, at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
; or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in one of the following
subjects Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany and
Zoology at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects in the N.C.G.E. Examination. (a
letter from the Principal certifying the pre-
vocational subject of the candidate is required) ; or
(v) Should have obtained a training of not less than six
months in a Government Farm related to
Agriculture
(e) Home Science Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Home Science
or Needle Work at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination or at
the Senior Certificate Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in Home Science at
the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects in the N.C.G.E. Examination. (a
letter from the Principal certifying the pre-
vocational subject of the candidate is required)  ; or
(iv)
Should have obtained a Certificate after studying
Home Science at a Government Technical College
for a period of not less than one year.
(f) English Course–
(i) Should have an appointment as an English Teacher
; or
(ii) Should be a teacher in service with 1
st, 2nd, 3rd Class
English Teachers’ Certificate ; and
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass for English
Language or English Literature at the G.C.E.(O/L)
/ London (O/L) Examination or at the Senior
Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have passed English as a subject at a higher
Examination.
Course No. Name of the Course

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2451
(g) Religion Course–
(i) Candidates applying for a course in Buddhism,
Christianity (RC), Hinduism, Islam should have
obtained a Credit Pass for the relevant religion at
the G .C.E.(O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass for Religion
at the N.C.G .E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in the subject indicated
in (I) above or in a relevant subject at the G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination.
(h) Art Course–
(i) Should have obtained a Certificate from the
Government College of Fine Arts (Three year
Course in Art) ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Teachers’ Certificate in
Art (Sinhala / Tamil / English)
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination or at the Senior School
Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Art at the
N.C.G .E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required) ; or
(v) Should have obtained a Pass for Art at the
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(i) Music Course–
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate Certificate
in Music of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa Sabha or the
First Part in Peradiga Sangeetha Examination or Jathika
Sangeetha Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Government College of Fine Arts ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Certificate in Music (Grade V)
of the Northern Ceylon Oriental Music Teachers’
Association : or
(iv) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Music from any recognized Indian Institution of Music
; or
(v) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Music at the
G .C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or
(vi) Should have obtained a pass in Music at the G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination ; or
(vii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Music at the
N.C.G .E. Examination (A Letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required)
(j) Dancing Course–
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate Certificate
in Dancing of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa Sabha or the
First Part in Peradiga Netum Examination or Jathika
Netum Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Government College of Dancing ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Dancing from any recognized Indian Institution of
Dancing ; or
(iv) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Dancing at the
G .C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or
(v) Should have obtained a pass in Dancing at the G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination ; or
(vi) Should have obtained ‘A ’ or ‘B’ pass in Dancing at the
N.C.G .E. Examination (A Letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required)
(k) Arabic Course–
(i) Should have obtained a pass in stage I and II of the
Al-Alim Preliminary Examination held by the
Department of Examination or should have obtained
a pass in Arabic at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in the Final Examination
of a recognized Madrasa Institute. The recognized
Madrasa Institutes are given below:
1. Bahijathul Ibrahimiya Arabic College, Fort, Galle
2. Gafuriya Arabic College, Maharagama
3. Madrasathul Bari Arabic College, Weligama
4. Kasimiya Arabic College, Puttalam
5. Nadwatul Ulema Arabic College, Muttur
6. Eastern Lanka Arabic College, Addalaichchenai
7. Madrasathulfula Arabic College, Kaththankudi
8. Muslim Ladies Arabic College, KalEliya
9. Madrasathul Jeffriya Arabic College, Galle
10. Hiydadiya Arabic College, Madampe
11. Nadwathul Buhari Arabic College, Kinniya
12. Madrasathul Nooraniya Arabic College,
Kotuwegoda, Matara
13. Makkiya Arabic College, Galle
or
Any other approved Institute (Proof of
recognition of the Institute should be forwarded
at the Interview)
(iii) The teachers of all other appointment with the
qualification of the above (I) or (II) can be applied for
this course.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2452
(l) Special Education Course  –
There are three divisions.
(i) Teaching children who are visually handicapped
(Blind)
(ii) Teaching Children who are in the category of hearing
impaired (Deaf)
(iii) Teaching Children who are mentally retarded.
Candidates should indicate the division preferred in
their application. Special consideration will be given
to those having English Knowledge in selecting
suitable candidates.
(m) Handicrafts and Technical Skills Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination or Senior School Examination in
one of the following handicraft subjects;
¾ Wood Work
¾ Metal Work
¾ Weaving
¾ Pottery
¾ Motor Mechanism
¾ Radio Technology
¾ Masonry
or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in relevant subject
at the N.C.G.E. Examination (A Letter from the
Principal certifying the pre-vocational  subject of the
candidate is required) ; or
(iii) Should have a ce rtificate in proof of successful
completion of course of not less than one year duration
at a Government Technical College or under a
Government Department.
(n) Commerce Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in two subjects
among Economics, Commerce, Accountancy, Typing,
Shorthand, Commerce and Finance at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination or Senior School Examination; or
(ii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects indicated
above at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Certificate from a Government
Technical College for one year Commerce Course
(o) Tamil Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Tamil Language
at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination
(p) Physical Education Course –
(i) Should have obtained a teaching appointment in
Physical Education.
(q) Sociology Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Social Studies
at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination or Senior School
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a ‘A’ or ‘B’ grade in Social
Studies at the N.C.G .E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects among
Geography, Economics, Political Science and History
at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination
(r) Second National Language (Sinhala / Tamil) Course –
Teachers who have obtained appointments for Second
National Language Sinhala / Tamil subjects having
qualifications indicated as in Para 7 (I) above can apply
for same.
08. A limited number of teachers from approved Director
Managed School or on the permanent staff of Government Approved
Private Schools, having a minimum of 20 hours of teaching during a
week, will be selected for training. The following categories of
schools are recognized for this purpose :
(i) Assisted Schools which became Private fee-levying
Schools in 1951
(ii) Schools which became Private Non-fee levying Schools
on 1960/12/01
(iii) Private Schools and Pirivenas approved by the Ministry
of Education (Not by the Divisional / Provincial Directors
of Education)
All candidates who are teachers in Private schools approved by
the Ministry of Education should have a minimum of one year
continuous service on 28.11.2014. They should produce a letter
from the Provincial / Zonal Director of Education certifying their
date of first appointment and that the teacher belongs to the
approved staff of the school at the interview.
Pirivena Teachers should have minimum service of two (02)
years as on 28.11.2014 for this approved service will be recognized
under the Pirivena Act of 1959 or Pirivena Act No. 64 of 1979.
At present, Pirivena teachers can apply only for the courses in
Sinhala, Science, Mathematics, English and Buddhism. (They should
obtain training in the subject for which they were appointed.) In
addition, teachers who are applying from Vidyayathana Pirivenas
can be applied for Music, Art, Dancing, Commerce, Physical
Education and Agriculture.
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools and
Pirivenas should submit a declaration by the Managers at the
interview with regards to the following.
(i) that the teacher could be released from service for the
period of training.
(ii) that the Teacher’s salary will be paid during the period of
training.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2453
(iii) that the Teacher could be re-employed by the Management
after completion of their training.
(iv) that no request will be made for replacement of the teachers
selected for the training and that their duties will be
distributed among the other members of the staff.
Teachers selected from Government Approved Private Schools
and Pirivenas, should sign an agreement before their registration to
the effect that “no requests will be made by them for employment
in Government Schools, after completion of their training”.
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools should
submit the originals of their letters of appointment with the
endorsement of the Provincial Director of Education. In the case of
teachers who obtained their appointment before the age of 18 years,
their date of appointment will be made effective from the 18
th
Birthday. The letter of appointment should be certified by the
Provincial Director of Education concerned, if it has been signed by
any other officer.
09. Application for selection :
(i) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
Specimen given in this Gazette Notification.
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which
the candidate wishes to follow the course.
(b) Application form should be prepared on a sheet of
paper of 8” X 12” (A4) size using both sides.
(c) No alterations or deletions of any cage should be
done. Care should be taken to keep adequate space
between the cages and to avoid any over-crowding.
(ii) Candidate should fill in the application properly.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. Special attention
of the candidates is drawn to the following.
(a) Every candidate must give his / her name as registered
in the Department.
(b) Application should be forwarded through the Head
of the School, Zonal Director of Education &
Provincial Director of Education if the candidate is a
Head of a School he / she should forward the
application through the Zonal Director of Education
and the Provincial Director of Education.
(c) Duly completed applications should be forwarded
under registered cover to “Director of Education,
Teacher Education Administration Branch,
Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla”
to reach on or before  28.12.2014 “Selection of
Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers’ Colleges – 2015/2016” and
Name of the Course, Medium and the Zone should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
Registered Post
"Selection of Teachers to follow
the Teacher Education Courses
in Teachers' Colleges - 2015/2016"
Course :.........................
Medium :.........................
Zone :.........................
Director of Education,
Teacher Education Administration Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(d) Late applications will be rejected and;
(i) Applications will not be acknowledged.
(ii) No other documents should be attached to the
application.
(iii) Should be prepared to submit originals and
certified photocopies of all certificates and other
documents at the interview.
(iii) Please note that a Weekend or Distance Teacher Training
Programme will not be commenced for Teacher Training
in Teachers’ Colleges for the year 2015/2016.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil or
English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
A
NURA DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
28th November, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
SELECTION OF TEACHERS TO FOLLOW THE TEACHER EDUCATION COURSES IN
TEACHERS’ COLLEGES – 2015/2016
01. Medium :
02. Date of assumption of duties
according to the Letter of
Appointment  :
03. Name of Course :

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2454
04. Category of First Appointment, Subject and Service / Grade
held by you :
(a) Category of First Appointment:
(b) Subject :
(c) Service / Grade held by you
(Indicate the appropriate number in the cage)
Sri Lanka Teacher Service - 01
Teacher Assistant - 02
Other (Please specify) - 03
(d) Grade :
05. If you are a teacher registered for the Distance Teacher Training
Course / Weekend Teacher Training Course for Non-graduate
Untrained teachers and not completed ;
(i) Name of the Course :––––––––––––.
(ii) Y ear :––––––––––––.
(iii) Final Results :––––––––––––.
06. Name with Initials (Write in Block Capital Letters. Write the
name first and indicate the initials after the name.) :
(Example : PERERA, A. B.)  Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms.  :––––––––.
07. Names denoted by initials (Write in Block Capital Letters) :
––––––––––.
08. Gender – Male / Female
(Write the respective number in the cage)
Male - 1 Female - 2
09. National Identity Card Number :
10. ( a) Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
(b) Age as on 28.11.2014 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days ––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :
Residence :–––––––––––.   Mobile  :–––––––––––.
12. E-mail address (if any) :–––––––––––.
13. Private Address (Write in Block Capital Letters) :–––––––––.
14. Name of the Present Serving Station, Address, District and
Zone (Write in Block Capital Letters) :
(i) Name of the Present Serving Station :–––––––––––.
(ii) Address :–––––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––––.
(iv) Zone :–––––––––––.
(v) Nature of the Serving Station (Indicate the appropriate
number in the cage)
(a) Government School  – 01
(b) Plantation School – 02
(c) Government approved Pirivena – 03
(d) Government approved Private School– 04
(e) Other – 05
15. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Results of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial No. Subject Grade obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(ii) Results of G .C.E.(A/L) Examination :
First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial No. Subject Grade obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
16. Service Particulars :
Serial No. Schools Served Period of Whether
service difficult or not
1.
2.
3.
17. Applicants’ Declaration :
(i) I declare that the above stated information is correct and
true. I know that, if the information given by me found to
be incorrect, my application will be subjected to rejection
and if any fault is revealed after the selection, I will be
dismissed from the course.
(ii) I am presently not undergoing any type of institutional
teacher training programmes.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:––––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2455
18. Principals’ Declaration :
(i) The number of teachers in the staff at present :––––––––.
(ii) The Number of Students :–––––––––––.
(iii) Whether the existing staff in the school will be sufficient
for the number of students, if the teacher is released for the
teacher training :–––––––––––.
I certify that the above candidate is a teacher / teacher assistant
serving in my school from ………………………………… up to
date and I have examined the particulars submitted by him / her in
this application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………………. if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal
and the Rubber Seal.
Date :–––––––––––––.
19. I, certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms.............................................
is a Teacher / Teacher Assistant, serving in ………..........…..
Vidyalaya of …………................……………… zone from
………………………………………………………….. up to
date. He / She has assumed duties as per his / her first
appointment letter dated ……………………………  I have
examined the particulars submitted by him / her in this
application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ……………………  if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
–––––––––––––,
Signature,
Zonal Director of Education
and the Rubber Seal.
Date :–––––––––––––.
20. I certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms................................  is a
Teacher / Teacher Assistant, serving in …………………………
Vidyalaya of …………………………………………… zone.
I have examined the particulars submitted by him / her in this
application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………… if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature
Provincial Director of Education
and the Rubber Seal.
Date :–––––––––––––.
11–914
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE  AND  URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management Open Competitive Examination to recruit to
the post of Technical Assistant in class III of Sri Lanka
Technology Service - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who
qualified from the qualifications stipulated in this Notification to
recruit to the post of Technical Assistant in class 111 of the Sri
Lanka Technology Service of the Department of Coast Conservation
and Coastal Resource Management. (By the Director General of
the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management)
Number of posts to be recruited - 05
Technical Assistant (civil) - 04
Technical Assistant (Mechanical) - 01
01. Service Conditions.–  The officers who will be recruited to
the post of Technical Assistant of class 111 in Technology Service
shall be subject to the general conditions, imposed to the
appointments of Public Service and the conditions under mentioned :
1.1 The selected officers may be subject to the condition of
discharge the service in any part of the island.
1.2 Appointment will be on probation, for a period of 3
years. If an officer would be appointed to this post,
which is in permanent state service at present, he will be
subject to a one year of examine period.
1.3 The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed
before earn the third salary increment, since the date of
appointment, to permanent the appointment.
1.4 As per the Public Administration Circular No.07/2007
dated 28.05.2007; the selected officers should obtain the
proficiency in second official language, within a period
of 05 years from the date of appointment.
1.5 The officer who will be appointed shall be subject to the
Orders of the Public Service Commission, Provisions of
the Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Orders
and Regulations that may be issued by the Government
from time to time and the Regulations of the Ministry
and the Department .
02. Salary Scale. – The monthly salary scale attached to this
post as per the Public Administration Circular No.06/2006(IV)
MN- 3-2006 A is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360
- Rs. 27,885.
03. Age Limit :
3.1 Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years
of age on the closing date of Application. The maximum age
limit does not apply to those who are presently serving in
the Government Service.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2456
3.2 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
3.3 The applicant shall bear an excellent morale character and
adequate physical eligibility for discharging the duties.
04. Educational Qualifications  :
(a) Passed in 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in
one sitting including Sinhala / Tamil / English language,
Mathematics and another 2 subjects with credit passes.
And
(b) Passed all the subjects in the G .C. E (A/L) Examination
under the subject streams of Maths, Science, Technology
(Except the General Test) at once. (It is sufficient to have
passed three subjects at once under the old syllabus)
(c) Followed a course recognized by the Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission respective to the use
of Excel and Auto CAD relevant to apply the subject area
of the duty is considered as a special qualification.
05. Professional Qualifications :
* Technical Assistant (civil and mechanical)
(i) Diploma in National Technology awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or Hardy Institution in Ampara.
or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority.
or
(iii) Diploma in National Advance Engineering awarded by
the Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
or
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Sri Lanka Open
University.
or
(v) Successful completion the First part of the Engineering
Examination conducted by the Institute of Engineers Sri
Lanka.
or
(vi) Complete the qualification in level 6 of the National
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) relevant to the
employable sector.
or
(vii) Other qualifications accepted by the Sri Lanka
Technological Services Board which are equal to the above
technological qualifications.
The above qualifications should be in relevant field to
the post.
06. Recruitment Procedure .– Candidates who possessed the
basic qualifications should sit for a General Competitive Examination
conducted by the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resource Management.
Applicant should obtain 40% or more marks for the each
question paper scheduled for the General Competitive Examination
and the recruitment will be done according to the sequence of the
merits of the total marks obtained in the interview by the applicants
who obtained the marks for the papers and proven the qualifications.
07. General competitive Examination :
7.1 This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English medium.
7.2 Applicants will able to sit for the examination in language
which they prefer and the permission will not be given to
change the language medium in the examination.
7.3 Examination fees is Rs.1 000.
Money order, enable to transfer to the cash from the post
office in Maligawatta, issued to the name of the Director
General of the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management should send attached to the application form.
(It should not affix)
7.4 Subjects of the Examination: Examination is consisted of
two question papers.
1. Intelligence Test - Time 01 hour. Total marks 100
2. General Test - Time 01 hour, Total marks 100
7.5 This examination will be conducted in the Department
by the Director General of the Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resource Management on February 2015.
7.6 Syllabus :
01. Intelligence Test - Time 01 hour. Total Marks 100.
* Measure the consectarium of the applicant in respective
of the issues forwarded in the context of verbal,
numerical and diagram and to strength of logical think,
thinks, analyze and take decisions.
02. General Test - Time 01 hour. Total Marks 100.
* Technical Assistant ( civil) -
(i.) Management of the coastal area
* What is the meaning of management of the
coastal area?
* How does the management do?
(ii.) Coastal erosion and the reasons for it / natural
reasons / human activities / types of  trees
suitable for the coastal environment.
(iii.) Areas affected by the coastal erosion, Annual
intensity of coastal erosion and ways of
controlling urgent coastal erosion situations .
* Technical Assistant (Mechanical)-
(i) Question Papers will be prepared to examine the
ability of drawing a cross section or front or back
appearance of a machine or part of a machine, by
utilizing the principles of the drawings and a given
diagram and to examine the knowledge of the
applicant respective to the subjects of Physics,
Machinery Science and the Applied Maths.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2457
08. The Method of sending the applications :
8.1 The application form should be prepared as per the
specimen application form given at the end of this Gazette
Notification, using both sides of the A 4 size sheets
including sections 01 to 05 in the first page and the
remaining sections in other pages and should be sent
under registered post to reach “The Director General,
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management, 4
th  Floor, General Secretariat,
Maligawattha, Colombo 10” on or before 28th December
2014. Left hand corner of the envelope which enclosed
the application "Recruitment to the post of Technical
Assistant in Class 111 of the Sri Lanka Technology
Service" should be mentioned clearly.
Note: The candidates who are already in the Public Service
should forward their application forms through the
respective Head of the Department/Institution.
8.2 Applications not completed in each ways will be rejected.
The requests made regarding the Applications received
late or those lost in the post will not be considered.
8.3 Receipt of application will not be acknowledged. The
date to conduct the examination will be published by a
news paper advertisement and the candidates who do
not receive their admission for the examination, before
07 days to the examination, should inform immediately
to the Director General of Department of Coast
Conservation and Coastal Resource Management with
the following details :
(i) Full name of the applicant :
(ii) Address :
(iii) Date of posted the application, registered number,
post office) :
9. The photocopies of the following certificates should be
attached to the application form by the Applicants :
(i) Birth certificate,
(ii) Certificates of proving Educational Qualifications,
(iii) Certi ficates of proving Professional Qualifications.
10. The Director General to the Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resource Management possess the authority to take the decision
for an any matter arisen regarding a fact which is not mentioned in
this Gazette Notification.
Eng. I. M. W
ICKRAMANAY AKE,
Acting Director General,
Department of Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resource Management.
In the Department of Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resource Management,
Maligawattha,
14th November 2014.
MINISTRY OF DEFENCE AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
D
EPARTMENT OF COAST CONSERV ATION AND COASTAL RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION TO RECRUIT TO THE POST OF
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT IN CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGY
SERVICE - 2014
(For office use only)
Expected Language medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the box)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials :––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters, Ex: SILV A A.B)
1.2 Names denoted by the Initials :––––––––––––. .
(In English capital letters)
1.3 Full Name (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Private :––––––––––––.
2.2 Office :––––––––––––.
2.3 Telephone Numbers :
Office :––––––––––––. Private :––––––––––––.
03. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year: Month:               Date:
4.2 National Identity Card No. :
05. 5.1 Sex -: Female
Male
5.2 Married /Unmarried / Widowed: Married
Unmarried
Widowed
06. Educational Qualifications :
* G .C.E. (O/L)
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subjects Pass Subjects Pass

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2458
* G.C.E. (A/L)
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subjects Pass
07. Technological Qualifications :
Name of Course Duration of Pass No. and date
the course followed the course of certificate
Institution
08. Experience :
Professional Experience Institution Duration
09. Details of language skill :
Language Reading Writing Speaking
10. Details of Computer Skills :
Name of Course Duration of Pass No. and date
the course followed the course of certificate
Institution
11. Name of the post office which paid the Examination fees :
–––––––––––.
Number of Money Order :–––––––––––.
The total sum of Examination fees is Rs. 1000/=. Send to the
name of the Director General of the Coast Conservation and
Coast Recourses Management from any post office in the
Island. Pay to the office in Maligawatta. Send the
original receipt attaching to this.
(Do not affix the receipt)
12. I do hereby certify that the particulars provided by me in this
application form are true and accurate. Further, I am fully
aware that if any information provided herein is found to be
false or incorrect prior to my selection, I am liable to be
disqualified and if it is found after the selection, I am liable to
be dismissed from the service without paying any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Only for the applicants th ose who serves in the permanent
government service, at present.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department/Institution
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by the applicant,
are examined and those are accurate and If he would be qualified to
recruit to the above post, and he, can be released /cannot be released
from his present position.
–––––––––––––––,
(Signature of the Head of the Department)
(Should keep the official stamp).
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–917
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
RECRUITMENT TO THE VACANCIES IN THE POST OF SERVICE CATEGORY OF FIELD I OFFICE BASED OFFICERS
SEGMENT 1 OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons, who have fulfilled the prescribed qualifications to fill 21 vacancies in the post of “Evaluation
Officer” of service category of Field / Office based officers Segment 1 of the Department of Technical Education and Training.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2459
01. Recruitment Procedure.– Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and a structral interview. The
written examination will be held first and a number of candidates equivelant to two times the number of vacancies, to be filled  on merit
order of candidates who passed all subjects in written examination, will be called for the structural interview. Recruitment to  class II of
relevant post, will be made on the order of merit based on the total marks obtained at the written examination and the structural interview.
Written Examination :
Question Duration T otal Pass Syllabus
paper Marks Marks
1. General 1 1/2 hours 100% 40% A short question paper to test candidate's knowledge in
knowledge provisional, social instances and knowledge on
international situations and ability of creative  thinking
and solve problems.
2. General 1 hour 100% 40% A short question paper to test candidate's ability in
Inteligence understanding and intelligence by assessing the candidates
conclusions and responses in relation to complexities
presented in a form of prose and numerical figurative
contexts.
Structural Interview :
Main headings, which marks are given Maximum marks
Additional Educational Qualification 25
Experience 30
Language Profficiency 20
Computer Literacy 20
Skills shown at the interview 05
Total 100
02. Educational Qualifications :
1. should possess a B.Sc degree from a university, recognized by the University Grant Commssion.
and
2. Should possess a post Graduate Diploma in Science or Commerce field from a University, recognized by the University
Grant Commssion.
03. Age Limit.– Not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
04. Salary.– In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 (iv) salary scale Rs. 17,680-10x320-11x365-15x 450- Rs.
31,645 of salary code MN - 6 - 2006 (ta) is applicable for this post.
05. All candidates, who apply for the above referred post, should be a citizen of Sri Lanka with a moral character and have
sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge the duties of the post. All qualifica tions need to
recruit to the post should have been fulfilled in every manner, by the closing date of applications.
06. Mode of forwarding applications :
(i) Applications, prepared according to the undermentioned specimen form, in A4 size paper using both sides with item
No. 01 to 07 appearing in 1st page, No. 08 to l0 in 2nd page and other matters in next pages, duly filled in his / her own
hand writing, should be sent under registered cover to reach “Director General, Department of Technical Education and
Training, P.O.Box 557, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo - 10” before 29.12.2014. The envelop, enclosing the application
should be clearly marked" Application for the post of “Evaluation Officer” on the top left hand corner.
(ii) Applications, which are of non compliance with specimen application and include incomplete perticulars and applications
received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained. Applicants are adviced to send their applications
in time to avoid the possibility of postal delay.
(iii) Application should be completed in language medium of examination.
(iv) The fee for examination is Rs. 400/- and such fee should be paid at any People's Bank branch in the Island to the
Account Number 176 - 100 - 139026228 (Mid City Branch) as credited to the Director General, Department of
Technical Education & Training. The receipt obtained should be firmly affixed in the application form. It will be useful
to keep a photocopy of the application and a receipt. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances and

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2460
money order and stamps will not be accepted.
(v) Signature of candidate should be attested by a Principal of Government school/A Grama Niladari of the Division 1 A
justice of a peace 1 Commissioner of oaths 1 Attorney - at -law 1 Notary Public 1 Commissioned officer in the Armed
Force 1 A permanent staff officer in Public and Provincial Public Service with annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360
or above or a chief incumbent or chief priest of a Buddist temple or a distinguish person, incharge of a holy place of any
other religion.
(vi) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Public Service should submit applications through their Heads of the
Department.
(vii) Candidature will be repealed, if any information, mentioned in the application being detected as incorrect before the
recruitment. If such information being detected after the recruitment, action will be taken to dismissal from the service.
(viii) Applications, should not be sent to the name of any officer of the Department and any application sent, do so, or hand
over personally will not be accepted. Inquiries about applications lost or delayed in post, will not be considered.
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
07. Implementation of official languages policy. – The Officers, who recruited to service by a language medium, other than an
official language, should obtain prescribed language profficiency within the period of probation. Proficiency in other official language of
relevant class, should be obtained, in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and  Circulars, incidental thereto.
8. Conditions of employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and candidates should contribute to the widows and orphans/widowers and
orphans pension scheme.
(ii) Candidates should liable to serve in any College of Technology / Technical College, comes under the purview of this
Department, as would be stipulated.
(iii) Selected candidates should adhere to the provisions in scheme of recruitment already approved relevant to the post of
Evaluation Officer and amendments would be made, provisions in Establishments Code, Financial Regulations, General
conditions and provisions, mentioned in the procedural rules published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated
20.02.2009 by the Public Service Commission and rules and regulations issued by the Government or line Ministry or
Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training.
09. Examination Procedure :
(i) Admission cards will be issued by the Director (Testing and Evaluation) on behalf of the Director General of Department
of Technical Education and Training to the candidates who sent applications formally. Candidates, appearing for the
examination in prescribed examination hall, should submit their admission card, with their dulty attested signature, to
the supervisor of the examination hall. Permission will not be granted any candidate, to sit the examination, without
submitting the admission card.
(ii) Traveling expenses or any other allowances, incure by the candidates for appearing for this examination will not be paid.
(iii) Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall, relating to every
subject they appear in the examination hall. Anyone of the following documents only, will be accepted for this purpose.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of persons, or
(b) A valid passport.
(iv) Examination will be held in English, Sinhala and Tamil medium. Permission will not be granted later to change the
language medium applied.
(v) According to the details in application, candidates who fulfilled qualifications mentioned in the notification only, will be
allowed to sit for the writtten examination. Appearing for written examination, will not be treated as an acceptance of the
fulfillment of qualifications.
(vi) Candidates will subject to the rules and regulations, stipulated by the Director General of the Department of Technical
Education and Training, relating to conduct the examination.
(vii) This examination will be conducted by the Testing and Evaluation Division of the Department of Technical Education
and Training in Colombo only.
10. Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training reserves the right to fill all or a part of the
vacancies.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2461
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the Tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, Sinhala
text shall prevail.
J .A. RANJITH,
Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10,
28th November, 2014.
A
PPLICATION FORM
For office use
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF EVALUA TION OFFICER OF SERVICE CATEGORY OF FIELD/OFFICE BASED OFFICERS SEGMENT - 1 OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING - 2014
Language Medium applied :
01. Name of the candidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (In block capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name (In block capital letters) Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
(i) ( a) official Address (In block capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
(b) Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
(c) Official Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
(ii) ( a) Private Address (In block capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
(b) Private Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
(c) Private Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––.
04. Age as at closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
06. Sex : Male/Female :–––––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/widow :–––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
Name of the Degree or Post Effective Main Subject Grade Name of the University
Graduate Diploma Date
09. Other Educational/Language Proffeciency/Computer Literacy Qualifications (If possessed) :
Examination/Diploma/Course Year, Completed Na me of the Institute/University

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2014
2462
10. Particulars of Experience : (If possessed) :
Institutions, worked Post Period of Serivce Whether, Government/Semi Government/Private
11. (i) If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or registration (If registration, state details) :––––––––––––.
12. Whether you have been dissmissed from Government post, that you had been holding ? :––––––––––––.
13. If you are already in Public Service, are there any Departmental deciplinary inquiries against you ? :––––––––––––.
14. Whether you have been convicted in a Court ? If so, state details :––––––––––––.
15. People’s Bank branch which written examination fee has been paid :––––––––––––.
Date of Payment
:––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particu lars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect before the selection I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without co mpensation,
if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
16. Attestation of the Signature of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr. / Mrs. / Miss . ........................................................................................... . is personally known to
me & placed his / her signature in my presence on .......................... .
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the certifying officer :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(This part is applicable only for candidates who engage in Government employment)
Attestation of the Head of the Department / Institution
I hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss .................................. who is working in this Ministry/ Department / Institution, is
working in the post of  ...................................................... and his / her work and conduct are satisfactory,  no disciplinary action pending
against him / her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in future. If she / he will be selected for this post, he / she can / cannot
be released from the service.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department or Authorized officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
( Seal)
11–927
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.