

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3983  
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"150 – 2019 fkdjeïn¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'11'15
No. 2,150 –  fRiday ,  NoVEmbER 15, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th december, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd November, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3981 - b 81578- 5,403 (11/2019)
N. B.–   Part ii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,149 of 08.11.2019 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3982
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3983
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
amENdmENt 
mINISTRy Of INDuSTRy AND COmmERCE, RESETTLEmENT Of PROTRACTED DISPLACED 
PERSONS, CO-OPERATIvE DEvELOPmENT AND vOCATIONAL TRAINING AND SkILLS 
DEvELOPmENT
Department of Technical Education and Training 
admiSSioN of StUdENtS to coURSES coNdUctEd at coLLEGES of tEcHNoLoGy/tEcHNicaL 
coLLEGES - 2020
tHiS refers to the Gazette notification No. 2147 published on 25.10.2019 regarding the recruitment of students to the 
colleges of technology and technical colleges functioning under the department of technical Education and training for 
the academic year 2020.
02. it is informed that the course details in the above Gazette notification have been amended as follows and 
applications for the amended courses should be submitted to the relevant colleges of technology and technical colleges on 
or before 06.12.2019.
telephone numbers of following colleges should be amended as follows :
ampara Hardy college of technology - 063-2223485/063-2224236
Sammanthurai technical college - 067-2051105/067-2260086
anamaduwa technical college - 032-2263288/032-2263163
 P. N. K. Malalasekara, 
 director General, 
 department of technical Education and training. 
P. o. box 557, 
olcott mawatha, 
colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of the Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level and 
Colleges where the courses 
are available
04 Ecc66 Certificate for Vehicular 
Emission testing technician
full time day 1 year
1. Should have studied up to              
Grade 10  
or
Should have obtained NVQ 3 
qualification in relevant field
2. age should be between 17 and 
29 years as on 01.01.2020. 
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4 
Kegalle, Kurunegala, Galle
18 Ecc65 Certificate for Tiler
full time day 9 months
1. Should have studied up to              
Grade 11
or
Should have obtained NVQ 3 
qualification in relevant field
2. age should be between 17 and 
29 years as on 01.01.2020. 
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4 
Kurunegala, Galle

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3984
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of the Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level and 
Colleges where the courses 
are available
19 Ecc67 Certificate in Aluminium 
fabrication with interior 
decoration 
full time day 1 year
1. Should have studied up to              
Grade 10  
or
Should have obtained NVQ 3 
qualification in relevant field
2. age should be between 17 and 
29 years as on 01.01.2020. 
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4 
Warakapola, Rathmalana, 
Galle
42 Ecc 
03.1
Certificate in Computer 
Hardware
Part time 6 months
1. G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in 
Six (6) Subjects with passes 
in mathematics, Science and 
medium Language in not more 
than two sittings. 
and
Should have completed basic 
computer Science course.
2. age should be between 17 years 
as on 01.01.2020
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4 
Galle
43 Ecc 
04.1
Certificate in Computer 
Networking
Part time 6 months
1. G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in 
Six (6) Subjects with passes 
in mathematics, Science and 
medium Language and English 
Language in not more than two 
sittings
and
Should have completed basic 
computer Science course. 
2. age should be between 17 and 
29 years as on 01.01.2020. 
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4 
Galle
48 Ecc22 Certificate in Electrical Trade
full time day 1 year
1. G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in 
Six (6) Subjects in not more than 
two sittings.
2. age should be between 17 years 
as on 01.01.2020. 
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 3 
Ratnapura, Hasalaka, Kegalle, 
moneragala, Polonnaruwa, 
Warakapola, anamaduwa, 
Wariyapola
Tamil medium 
NvQ Level 3
batticaloa, Sammanthurai, 
Jaffna

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3985
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of the Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level and 
Colleges where the courses 
are available
62 E cc 26 Certificate in Machining 
full time day 1 year
1. Should have passed Grade 10
2. age should be between 17 and
29 years as on 01.01.2020.
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4 
anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, 
Rathmalana, maradana, 
Kurunegala, Warakapola, 
Kuliyapitiya, Gampaha, 
dambulla, Embilipitiya, 
bandarawela, Rathnapura, 
Nuwara Eliya, Galle
Sinhala medium 
NvQ Level 3
dehiattakandiya, Hasalaka, 
Homagama, Kalutara, matara
32 E tc 
01.1
National Certificate 
in technology (civil 
Engineering)
(construction technology - 
NVQ Level 5)
Part 
time three years 
(Restricted to those employed 
in the relevant field)
1. G. c. E. ( o/L) Examination in
Six (6) subjects in not more than
two sittings.
Six (06) subjects should be -
(a) Sinhala/
tamil/English language
(b) mathematics and Science
(c) three other subjects
or
Should have obtained NVQ 3 or 4 
Qualifications for relevant field. 
2. age should not be less than  17
years as on 01.01.2020.
English medium
NvQ Level 5 
Rathmalana, maradana, Jaffna, 
Kandy, badulla, Kurunegala, 
Rathnapura, ampara, Kegalle, 
Kuliyapitiya, Homagama, 
Wariyapola, Gampaha, 
Embilipitiya, 
anamaduwa, 
Kaluthara, balapitiya, beliatta, 
bandarawela, dambulla, 
mathale, Vavuniya, batticoloa, 
trincomalee, akkaraipaththu, 
Hasalaka, anuradhapura, 
Galle, matara, Samanthurai
55 E tc 
02.1
National Certificate in 
technology (Electrical and 
Electronic Engineering)
(Electrical technology - NVQ 
Level 5)
Part 
time three years 
(Restricted to those employed 
in the relevant field)
1. G. c. E. ( o/L) Examination in
Six (6) subjects in not more than
two sittings.
Six (06) subjects should be -
(a) Sinhala/
tamil/English language
(b) mathematics and Science
(c) three other subjects
or
Should have obtained NVQ 3 or 4 
Qualifications. 
2. age should not be less than  17
years as on 01.01.2020.
English medium
NvQ Level 5 
ampara, anuradapura, 
badulla, batticoloa, Kandy, 
Galle, Jaffna, maradana
11–1203

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3986
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher 
Educator's Service - 2019 (II)
it is hereby notified that the Efficiecy Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educator's 
Service will be conducted in 2020 february in colombo in accordance with the Service minute of the Sri Lanka teacher 
Educators' Service bearing No. 1925/37 and came to effect from 28.07.2015 and published in the Gazette extraordinary of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
02. the relevant syllabus and the other Provisions applicable to this Examination have been published under the
Schedule iii of the aforementioned Service minute. the syllabus and the other Provisions are mentioned below for the 
convenience of the candidates.
An officer is allowed to sit the prescribed subjects of this Efficiency Bar Examination in the same sitting or in 
separate sittings.
03. Procedure of the examination.- Written Examination :
Subject Number Subject Marks Duration (Hours)
01 General management and Establishment 100 1 1/2
02 financial Regulations 100 1 1/2
03 Educational Reforms and Educational Law 100 02
04 English Lanuage 100 02
04. The Syllabus :
Subject 
Number
Subject Content of the Subject
01 General management 
and Establishment
With special reference to chapters, i, ii, iii, iV , V , Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , 
XXiV , XXViii, XXX and XXXi of the Establishment code
With special reference to chapter i, iii, iV , V , Vi, Viii, X and Xii of the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission.
02 financial Regulations With special reference to chapters, i, ii, V , Viii, Xii an X iV of Part i of the 
financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka
03 Educational Reforms 
and Educational Law
candidates are Expected to be familiar with the following ordinances and acts 
of the Parliament.
i. Educational Reforms 1972 (New approach to Education)
ii. White Paper on Education 1981
iii. first Report of the National Education commission 1992
iv. New Educational Reforms 1997
v. New Educational Reforms implemented since 1999 (Primary Secondary and
G.
c. E. (a/L))
vi. the Public Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968 as amended by the Public
Examinations (amendment) act, No. 15 of 1976
vii. the National institute of Education act, No. 28 of 1986

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3987
Subject 
Number
Subject Content of the Subject
03 viii. the colleges of Education act, No. 30 of 1986
ix. the National Education commission act, No. 19 of 1991
x. the  National authority on teacher Education act, No. 32 of 1997
xi. the constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the 13th amendment
and chapter 3 on fundamental Rights
xii. conventions enforced by Provincial councils relevant of Education
04 English Language English Grammer:-
tense and Number, Sentences (Simple/compound/complex/compound 
complex), Relative clauses, adjectives and adverbs, Prepositions)
Communication Skills :-
General Greetings and introduction, Giving and getting information, advising, 
Suggesting and expressing opinions, telephone skills, interviewing skills, 
meeting.
Writing Skills :-
internal modes of communication formal correspondence skills, writing 
descriptions Explanations, summary Writing Skills, Report Writing Skills.
N. B.- Candidates are required to obtain at least 40 marks on each of the papers for a pass in the Efficiency Bar
Examination. a candidate may pass the examination with one or more subjects at a single sitting.
Note:- Requirement to obtain a pass in the English Language under this Efficiency Bar Examination will be 
exempted when a candidate has followed the degree or post Graduate diploma or Post Graduate degree in 
the medium of English.
05. Language Mediums of the examination :
5.1  this Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. the language medium
applied for the Examination cannot be altered later.
5.2  Candidates should select the same medium of language through which he/she was qualified to enter the 
teacher Educator's Service as the medium of this examination.
5.3  the candidature of a  candidate will be cancelled if it is revealed that a candidate is sitting the Examination 
in a medium of Language that is not entitled to him/her
06. application should be prepared as per the format mentioned here using the both sides of an a4 sized paper and
the Heads No. 01 to 05 should appear on the first page. In the preparation of application, the title of the Examination appears 
in the heading of the applications should be mentioned in English Language in addition to the sinhala Language in Sinhala 
applications and in English Language in addition to the tamil Language in tamil applications. you should be cautious 
whether the application is in conformity with the specimen application mentioned in the Notification of the Examination 
and whether all the information have been accurately completed and wether the prescribed Examination fees have been paid 
and the said details are included in the relevant place of the application and the receipt is affixed to the application prior 
to directing the application as the applications that are not in conformity with the specimen application and applications 
with incomplete information are rejected without prior notice. It is hereby notified that it would be beneficial to retain a 
photocopy of the application.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3988
07. this Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in colombo and the 
candidates are bound to adhere the Rules and Regulations 
imposed by him.
08. Provision  of false information- accurate information 
should be furnished carefully in filling the application. The 
candidature of a certain candidate will be cancelled in any 
instance before the Examination or during the Examination 
or after the Examination if it is revealed that he/she is 
not qualified and furnished false information as per the 
Provisions related to this Examination.
09. the candidate should substantiate his/her identity 
to the supervisor for each subject that he/she sits at the 
Examination Hall. for that purpose, one of the following 
will be accepted.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid driving License
  Similarly, the candidates should enter the 
Examination Hall without covering their face 
and ears, in a manner the identity of the candidate 
can be confirmed. Furthermore, candidates 
who refuse to substantiate his./her identity 
will not be permitted to enter the Examination 
Hall. in addition, candidates should keep their 
face and ears uncovered from the moment they 
enter the Examination hall until they leave the 
Hall completing the examination, so that the 
examination authorities will be able to identify 
the candidate. if any objection in this regard 
is made the candidate will not be permitted to 
sit the examination. Nevertheless, results will 
not be issued for such candidates who fail to 
substantiate their identity.
10. applications should be sent through registered post 
to reach "the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations (institutional foreign Examinations) branch, 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Post box 1503, 
colombo on or before 2019.12.13. the applications that are 
sent after this date wll be rejected. The term,"Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers in the Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
teacher Educators' Service - 2019 (ii)'' should be mentioned 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
applications.
11. With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification 
have applied for the examination, admissions, shall be 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations 
to the candidates, who have submitted duly perfected 
applications with the relevant, receipt subsequent to paying 
the prescribed examination fee along with the receipt 
issued after paying the Examination fee on or before the 
closing date of applications. A  notification on the issuance 
of admissions shall be published by the department of 
Examinations in newspapers and in the Official Website of 
the department of Examiations of Sri lanka immediately 
after issuing admissions to candidates. a candidate, who 
does not receive his/her admission two or three days after 
publishing the notification, should inform in that regard to 
the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as mentioned 
in the advertisement. full name of the candidate, the address 
of the candidate and the National identity card Number and 
the title of the Examination applied for should be  indicated 
in making such inquiries. if the candidate resides outside 
colombo, it will be effective to fax a request letter along 
with such details of the candidate to the fax No. mentioned 
in the Notification including a fax Number of the candidate 
through which the candidate can obtain a copy of the 
admission via fax. in inquiring so, it will be useful to get 
prepared to produce the copy of the application kept with 
the candidate and copy of the relevant receipt if the payment 
of Examination fees is applicable and receipt issued for 
sending the application by registered post, if it is necessary 
to substantiate any information requested by the department 
of Examinations. issuance of an admission to a candidate 
should not be deemed as an acceptance that he/she has 
fulfilled qualifications for sitting the Examination.
12. the complaints lodged by the candidates who fail to 
fulfill the requirements mentioned in the Para II above will 
not be entertained.
13. the Signature of the candidate should have been 
attested in the application as well as in the admission for 
the Examination. a candidate applying for the Examination 
from a certain institute should certify his/her signature from 
the Head of the Institution or from an officer authorized by 
the Head of the institution. a candidate should hand over the 
admission, in which his/her signature has been attested to 
the Supervisor of the Examination on the first day of sitting 
the Examination. any candidate who fails to submit his./
her admission that has been systematically completed is not 
permitted to sit the Examination.
14. examination Fees :
 (a)  the candidates sitting this Examination should 
pay Examination fees on the following basis.
 (i)  Fees will not be charged for the first sitting

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3989
 (ii)  Examination fees as mentioned below will 
be charged for each sitting subsequent to 
the first sitting
  full Examination fee Rs. 500
  fee per one Subject Rs. 250
 (b)  the receipt obtained in favour of the candidate 
by paying this Examination fee to any Post 
Office/Sub post Office or District - Secretariat/
divisional Secretariat of the island to be 
credited to the revenue of the Government 
under the Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations should 
be firmly affixed through an edge of the receipt 
on the specified place of the application. It will 
be useful for the candidate to retain a photocopy 
of the receipt.
 (c)  money orders or stamps will not be accepted 
for the Examination fee. the fees charged 
for this Examination will not be refunded or 
transferred to any other examination under any 
circumstances.
15. the result sheet of all the candidates who sat the 
Examination will be forwarded to the Secretary of the 
ministry of Education by the commissioner of Examinations. 
Result sheets will not be personally issued to the candidates 
by the commissioner General of Examinations.
16. the candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in 
relation to the conduct of the Examination. it is informed 
that he/she will have to undergo any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations in case such 
rules or regulations are violated.
17. in case of any inconsistency Prevails among language 
texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such an 
instance.
18. the decision of the Secretary of Education will be 
final and conclusive pertaining to any matter, which is not 
covered by this notification.
 m. N. 
ranasinghe,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Education.
ministry of Education,
isurupaya,
battaramulla,
05th November 2019.
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN
efficiency Bar exaMination for officers in grade iii of 
the sri lanka teacher educators' service - 2019(1i)
applications should be sent by registered post through 
the Head of the institution to reach commissioner General 
of Examinations, organization (institutional and foreign 
Examinations) branch, department of Examinations 
of Sri Lanka, P. o. box 1503, colombo. (the title of the 
Examination should be mentioned on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope)
The Medium of Language through which the Officer sits the 
Examination :
  Sinhala  - 2
  t amil  - 3
  English - 4
(the relevant number should be mentioned inside the cage)
01.  (i) Name in full  :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)     
(ex.– HERatH  mUdiyaNSELaGE    
     SamaN KUmaRa  GUNaWaRdHaNa)
  (ii) Name indicating the last name first and the initials 
at the end  :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals) 
   (ex : GUNa WaRdHaNa, H. m. S. K.)
  (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil)  :–––––––––––.
02.   (i)  National college of Education/teachers' college/
teachers' centre served and the address (in 
English block capitals) the admissions are 
referred to this address :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Personal address (in English block capitals) 
:–––––––––––.
   (Applicable only for the officers employed in 
teachers' colleges/teachers' centres) 
03. t elephone Number :
  (i)  mobile telephone :
  (ii)  fixed telephone : 
04.  (i)  National identity card Number :

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'15
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2019
3990
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
  (ii)  Sex : male  - 0
     female  - 1
   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05.  the subjects for which the candidate sits should be 
clearly indicated with the subject number and the subject 
mentioned under (a) in para two of the Notification.
Subject Subject No.
06.   (i) date of birth :
   y ear : month :            days :
  (ii) designation :–––––––––––.
07. Whether sat the full or part of the examination before 
and if so, mention the subjects and the year of sitting the 
examination and the mediums :
Subjects Year Medium Index Number
08.  Particulars in relation to the payment of the Examination 
fee if applicable :
 (i) Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Post Office/Sub Post Office to which the fee has 
been paid :–––––––––––.
 (iii) date :–––––––––––.
 (iv) the amount Paid :–––––––––––.
Paste the receipt here
09. i do hereby declare that the information mentioned above 
is accurate and i am entitled to sit this examination in 
the medium of langauge mentioned as per para 05 of this 
Gazette notification. Further, I do declare that I agree to 
be liable to the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations pertaining 
to the conduct of the examination and the issuance of 
results. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
10. commissioner General of Examinations,
i, do hereby certify that the applicant whose information 
stated above is qualified to sit this Examination and he/
she is eligible to sit this examination in the medium of 
language indicated by him/her as per the para 05 of the 
Gazette Notification. Further, I, certify that the candidate 
is exempted from paying the examination fee/has paid the 
specified examination fee and affixed the receipt issued for 
the payment of the examination fees. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and the designation of the 
 President/Principal of the teachers' college/
 manager of the teachers' centre.
 (Substantiate with the Official Frank)
(delete the words not applicable)
11-1347