

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1709$45 - 2011 cqks 08 jeks nodod - 2011'06'08
No. 1709/45 - WEDNESDAY ,   JUNE   08,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
CHARTER   No   08    OF   2010 -  ANIMAL    PRODUCTION   AND    HEALTH    OF    UV A
PROVINCE
This is a Charter for making necessary provisions for statutory powers and matters connected
thereto which will be assigned to the Director of Animal Production and Health for protection, maintenance
, improvement and development of livestock resources by deploying appropriate technology to bring
about productive and efficient performance of Animal Production and Health.
Uva Provincial Council of Sri Lanka Democratic Socialistic Republic Hereby enact as follows
01. This charter shall be known as "The Charter No 08 of 2010 – Animal Production and Health of
Uva Province" and shall come into force with effect from the date of receipt of the approval
thereto from the Governor of Uva Province.
02. (i) The Governor of Uva Province shall appoint an officer in Grade – 1 of the Sri Lanka Animal
Production and Health Service as Head of Department of Animal Production and Health in
order to achieve the objectives of this Charter. He shall be the Head of the Department of
Animal Production and Health of Uva Province under this name and designation
STATUTE   OF   ANIMAL   PRODUCTION   AND   HEALTH   OF   NO .   08   OF   2011   OF   THE   UV A
PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
The above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 28th April, 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 10th of May, 2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla,
30th of May, 2011.
Name
in brief
and effective
date
Appointment of
Head of Dept.,
Structure of the
Dept. and its
administration
4 
- PG  001256

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
2A
(ii) Additional Directors, District Directors and other officers needed for the purpose shall be
appointed in order to achieve the objectives of this Charter. Appointing this staff, their
transfers, maintenance of their discipline and other matters shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of the provincial council Act No. of 1987
03. The Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Animal Production and Health shall be in control
of administering this Charter, subject to ordinary and special orders issued by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Animal Production and Health of Uva Provincial Council.
04. (i) To protect , upkeep and develop the livestock resources of Uva Province and to deploy
appropriate technology to utilize these resources efficiently and productivity for the well-
being of the people of Uva Province.
(ii) To plan and implement provincial level livestock resources projects and work programs and
to conduct follow – up action and evaluation thereto.
(iii) To conduct projects relating to animal husbandry for the purpose of providing technological
know-how to the people.
(iv) To conduct animal health service to diagnose animal diseases, treat diseased animals and
prevent animal diseases.
(v) To conduct models on animal husbandry and motivate people towards animal production
activities.
(vi) To co nduct artificial insemination including breeding services in order to upgrade the stock
of farm animals.
(vii) To provide the farmers with cattle, goats and pigs including fowls of high breed.
(viii) To provide improved varieties of planting material needed for cultivating various types of
grass and leguminous plants including implementation of work programs on updating of
animal nutrition and production of livestock food.
(ix) To take step to provide technical and advisory services needed by institution and organization
in Uva Province for their livestock resources improvement.
(x) To make certain that rules and regulations pertaining to animal husbandry would be exercised
only within Uva Province.
(xi) To establish producers’ organizations to enhance the marketing activities on animal production
and to provide other relevant services and also to popularize the use of fresh milk.
(xii) To organize inter-provincial competitions and distinguished awards ceremonies with a view
to appreciating the farmers in the animal production field and the services of officers also
motivate them
(xiii) To conduct research activities in accordance with the necessities timely identified.
05. (1) Powers required to achieve the various objectives under this Charter is vested in the Director
subject to the limits of the written law. The Director shall have the authority to call for any
information while discussing his duties entrusted upon him, from various institutions of the
Objectives of
the Charter
Powers vested
in the Director

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
Provincial Council, local government institutions, public organizations or individuals. There
institutions and individuals are bound to furnish such information when called for.
(2) The Director has the authority to call for details of animals owned by each person who rears
agricultural animals within his province which should be forwarded to him on or before 31st
January every year.
(3) Other than the Department of Animal Production and Health of Uva Province, if anyone else
desires to implement a development project in Uva on livestock resources he must obtain the
prior approval of the Director in writing. When the approved project is implemented the
Government Veterinary Surgeon of the area must be informed of the project.
(4) The Director has the right to reject the approval of projects which are contradictory to the
objectives of the Charter.
(5) Animal production organizations that are being implemented in Uva Province must be
registered with the Director, with the recommendation of the Director, under the guidance of
the Divisional V eterinary Surgeon. The Director shall maintain a list of organizations that are
registered and it shall be updated regularly.
6. The Director may transfer in writing the powers assigned to him under this Charter to the
Additional Directors, District Directors, Veterinary Surgeons, Livestock Officers and to any
other officer.
7. (1) To achieve the objectives of this Charter, it is required to appoint a Provincial Advisory Board
to advise the Minister of Animal Production and Health. This Provincial Advisory Board
shall be appointed by the Minister of Animal Production and Health of Uva Provincial Council
and its composition shall be as follows:
(i) The Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Animal Production and Health
(ii) The Director of Animal Production and Health
(iii) The Additional Director of Animal Production and Health
(iv) Two District Directors of Animal Production and Health
(v) The Director of Agriculture of Uva Province
(vi) Two representatives in the field of activities to represent Badulla and Monaragala
Districts , nominated by the Minister in charge of Animal Production and Health of Uva
Province.
(vii) Twp representatives from Livestock Resources Producers’ Unions.
(viii)  One representative from the Agriculture and Agrarian Insurance Board with the
concurrence of the Secretary to the Line Ministry.
(ix) One representative nominated by the National Livestock Resources Board with the
concurrence of the Secretary to the Line Ministry.
(2) The Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Animal Production and Health of Uva Province
shall be the Chairman of the Advisory Board and the post of Secretary of the Board shall be
the Director of Animal Production and Health of Uva Province.
Assign of powers
Establishment
of Provincial
Advisory Board

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
4A
08. (1) To put forward instructions and suggestions required by the Minister in charge of the Animal
Production and Health of Uva Province when implementing the provisions of the Charter to
achieve its objectives.
(2) To submit instructions and suggestions needed to solve various problems arising from time
to time in the field of Animal Production and Health.
(3) To advise the Ministry in charge of Animal Production and health on related matters that are
forwarded to the attention of the Minister or to the Secretary as well as on other related
matters that are supposed to needed the advice of the Advisory Board.
09. (i) The Minister in charge may remove an Advisory Board member from his membership any
time. A board member may resign his membership by marking a another request to the Minister.
(ii) The Minister may appoint a suitable successor, as situation permits, to cover the duties of an
Advisory Board member when he is found incapable of carrying out his duties in his being
away from Sri Lanka or an account of any other reason.
(iii) A member of the Advisory Board shall hold his membership a full term of three years from the
date of his appointment unless he resigns or vacates his post or removed from his post by the
Minister. The post of any board member falling vacant for whatever reason, a new member
shall be appointed in his place, and he shall hold his only for the remaining period of his
predecessor’s full term of office.
10 (i) Funds needed for implementing the proposals of the development plan annually prepared by
the department have to be provided under the annual budget and the supplementary budget
of the Uva Provincial Council for achieving the objectives of the Charter.
(ii) Funds received from local and international sources shall be appropriated for Department
activities subject to provision of this written of laws.
11. At the end of each financial year, the Director shall submit an annual control report to the
Minister in charge indicating the mode of implementing animal production and health services
in the province, problems encountered thereof, the measures taken to resolve them and the
by-laws pertaining to animal health. This report must be furnished within six months after the
year ends.
12 (i) The Minister in charge of Animal production and Health shall make regulations on the following
matters including matters that come under the objectives of this Charter.
12 :1 (i) Evolve policies on animal husbandry
(ii) Provide facilities to the community for animal husbandry
(iii) Make regulations on provincial animal protection activities.
12 :1 Each and every regulation made under this Charter must be promptly forwarded to the
Provincial Council. The Provincial Council has the power to approve or reject any regulation
made. The regulations approved or rejected shall be published in the Government gazette.
The approved regulation shall come into force with effect from gazette notification or from
any date prescribed. A regulation enacted by the Minister under the Charter if rejected by the
Provincial Council while it is in force, the rejection shall be regarded as one with no prejudice
whatsoever to the action taken under the regulation up to the time of its rejection.
Allocation of
Funds
Annual Control
Report
Authority for
making
Regulations
Duties and
responsibilities
of the Advisory
Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
13 If any asset or authority or property or man – power had been deployed for implementing
Animal Production and Health activities prior to the date of implementing the Charter, or if
it had been ordered to use a model, notice, license, register or any such property and
assets assigned to the department either by the Government under its Charter or things
received from some other sources.
14 (1) Violation of any provision or regulation of the Charter or evading activities that must be
done according to the above provisions or obstructing the duties of a person, who is
assigned a particular activity under the Charter are considered to be offences under the
provisions of this Charter subject to written law.
(2) Every person who commits an offence under this charter shall be produced before a magistrate
to face a summary trial and if he is found guilty, he shall be fined not less than Rs. 1000 but not
more than Rs. 5000, or he shall be imprisoned for a term not less than three months but not
more than one year, or he shall be both fined and imprisoned.
15 Unless otherwise the context requires a different meaning in this Charter the term
“Governor” means the Governor of Uva Province
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of Animal Production and Health. When the Uva
Provincial Council is dissolved and till a new council is formed for all intents and purposes
the term “Minister” in this Charter means "the Governor of Uva Province"
“Province” means the area of authority of Uva Province mentioned under the 13
th amendment
of the constitution of the Democratic Socialistic Republic of Sri Lanka.
“Provincial Council” means the Uva Provincial Council.
“The Secretary” means the Secretary to the Minister in charge of Animal Production and
Health of Uva Provincial Council.
“The Secretary to the Line Ministry” means the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Animal
Production and Health of Central Government.
“The Director of Animal Production and Health” means the officer appointed under the
section 2(1) of this Charter.
“Any other officer” means an officer employed in the department of Animal Production and
Health of Uva Province.
“Animal Protection activities” means the prevention of unauthorized transportation of animals
and slaughtering of animal that are not fit for slaughtering
“Pets” means birds, cats, dogs, and other animals reared in homes for pleasure
“Animal production organizations” means milk farming organizations, self – managed milk
producing companied and other livestock farming groups.
“Farm” means any place where agriculture animals are reared.
16 The meaning of words implied in the Sinhala text of this Charter shall prevail in case of any
discrepancy in meaning between words used in Sinhala and Tamil version of this Charter.
Assets and
Properties
Penalty
Prescribed
for breach of
provisions of
the Charter
Interpretation
5 
- PG  001256

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
6A
Organization Structure of the Ministry of Animal Production and Health
The Provincial Minister in charge
The Provincial Secretary to the Minister (SLAS I)
The Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health
(Animal Production and Health Service I)
Additional Provincial Secretary Additional Provincial Secretary
(Development and Administration) (Subject Related Consultant)
(Animal Production and Health Service I)  (Animal Production and Health Service I)
District Director (Badulla) District Director (Monaragala)
(Animal Production and Health Service I) (Animal Production and Health Service I)
V eterinary Surgeon(Badulla)/ Veterinary Surgeon(Monaragala)/
(Animal Production and Health Service (Animal Production and Health Service
I,II,III) I,II,III)
Livestock Development Instructors Livestock Development Instructors
(Badulla) (Monaragala)
Provincial Government Service – Uva Provincial Government Service – Uva
Sri Lanka Technical Service Sri Lanka Technical Service
III, II, I Special III, II, I Special
06-501/1

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
CHARTER   NO    07   OF    2010 -  AGRICULTURE     DEVELOPMENT    OF    UV A    PROVINCE
This is a Charter for making necessary provisions for statutory powers and matters connected theretofore
the purpose of promoting agriculture development through agriculture extension, agriculture upgrading,
agriculture education and research work (except ……………… researches )on agriculture within the
Province of Uva, while maintaining an efficient co-ordination and management by introducing modern
technological methodology to improve the living condition of the agricultural community.
Uva Provincial Council of Sri Lanka Democratic Socialistic Republic hereby enact as follows:
01 This Charter shall be known as "The Charter No 07 of 2011 – Agriculture Development of Uva
Province" and shall come into force with effect from the date of receipt of the approval
thereto from the Governor of Uva Province.
02 Uva Provincial Director of Agriculture appointed under the Provincial Department of
Agriculture (hereinafter referred to as "the Department") shall be the Head of Provincial
Department of Agriculture under this name and designation for the purpose of achieving the
objectives of this Charter.
03 The other posts such as Deputy Director of Agriculture and Assistant Directors of Agriculture
are hereby created subject to the provisions of clause 32 of the Provincial Council Act No. 42
of 1987 in order to achieve the objectives of this Charter.
04 Subjects to ordinary and special provisions of this Charter the Secretary to the Uva Provincial
Agriculture Ministry appointed by the Minister in Charge of Agriculture (herein after referred
to "the Minister") shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of this Charter.
05 The Governor shall appoint a Class – 1 officer of the Sri Lankan Agriculture  Service for the
post of Director of Agriculture referred to in Clause 02 above for carrying out the functions of
this Charter.
06 Agriculture extension, agriculture education and research work on agriculture as well as
provisions enumerated below shall be implemented in Uva Province using modern technological
methodology on agriculture including propaganda activities aimed at raising the living
conditions of the farming community. The objective of this Charter is to make provisions for
organizing and implementing broad work programs based on the above activities to upgrade
the agriculture development of the province.
STATUTE   OF    PROVINCIAL    AGRICULTURE     DEVELOPMENT     NO. 07    OF   2011    OF    THE    UV A
PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
The above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 28th April, 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 10th of May, 2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla,
30th of May, 2011.
Name
in brief
and effective
date
The Department
of Agriculture
The Provincial
Director of
Agriculture
Powers
Vested in the
Secretary
Appointment  of
Director
Agriculture
Objectives

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
8A
6. (1) (a) To identify the possible extension zones for traditional local crops and for newly
introduced crops, including crops yet to be introduced, and also to organize and
implement field activities accordingly, aimed at popularizing such crops.
(b) To maintain model cultivations in the province using strategies to increase the
productivity of cash crops and to motivate the farming community to embrace such
strategies so as to bring about the income of each family unit to a higher level.
(c) To make the farmer aware of the importance of the necessity to his income utilizing his
existing area of cultivation rather than broadening the cultivation area and also to make
him knowledgeable on the economic benefits he could reap thereby.
(d) To identify clearly the contribution of Uva towards the national agriculture production,
and to implement long term extension programs a sustainable footing at the aforesaid
production capacity.
(e) To form small scale farmer units  to regularize agriculture/extension activities.
(f) To establish a computer data system to store information on cultivation areas, crops,
annual production according each season, expected target, etc and maintain such data
with regular updating.
(2) (a) To make way for technological methodology, introduced repeatedly for advancement
of agriculture, to flow into the province promptly and provide the farming community
an opportunity to absorb such methodology while making them knowledgeable on the
benefits that they could reap.
(b) On introducing broad working programs to introduce new varieties of crops carrying
high demand and greater economic profit, priority to be given to department related
work programs.
(c) To popularize the usage of chemical fertilizer , to regularize the usage of insecticides
and propagate the usage of controlling methods of local insects.
(d) To make readily available the services such as production, import, distribution of new
kinds/ varieties of seeds and planting materials of high quality
(e) To establish cultivation areas as crops blocks.
(f) To provide opportunity to the farming community to obtain freely and easily activities
such as tissue culture improved by modern technological methods.
(g) To introduce agro-based industries and find market for such products.
(h) To contribute towards popularization of bee-keeping and commercial floriculture
connected with home-garden development.
(i) To assist marketing of qualitative agriculture produces.
(j) To implement agriculture programs that receives sponsoring.
07. The Director shall have the powers enumerated below for accomplishment of the
objectives mentioned in this Charter.
Agriculture
extension and
development
Agriculture
research and
extension
Powers vested
in the Director

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
(1) To implement planned work program utilizing the finds allocated for agriculture development
with efficiently and proper supervision to provide maximum provisions to the farming
community.
(2) To upgrade the agro economy through implementation of work program that suit the Province
so as to derive the maximum use of the local resources.
(3) To take steps to enhance the agriculture production and farmer economy by implementing
work programs based on national and provincial council level policies whereby to make a
better contribution towards the national production of the country.
(4) To provide approval to implement agriculture programs proposed by various institutions
after having studies them thoroughly and determined that such proposals suit the Province.
(5) To create agro based industries by utilizing agricultural products and to function as the
registered authority for making of agriculture produces.
(6) To register small scale farmer groups and the youth engaged in agriculture in the province.
(7) To function as the appropriate authority to minimize the amount of agro – products that go
waste heavily by implementing the post – harvesting technological activities.
(8) To function as the authority in implementing a methodology for the proper control of various
planting materials brought into the province, while building up a sound correlation with the
relevant agencies and institutions.
(9) To help regularize the process of getting loans for agricultural activities by recommending
that the loans obtained from state sector organization for agricultural activities shall be solely
utilized for the intended purpose.
(10) To provide assistance to evolve relevant statutory regulations connected with the eliminating
of obstacles encountered in the agriculture production activities and to function as the
authority to carry out such rules and regulations
08. The Provincial Director or the officers on whom the power is delegated by the Director shall
take action to establish a data system with regular up – dating to store the data and information
needed for the accomplishment of the objectives encountered in this Charter
09. The Provincial Director or the officers on whom the power is delegated by him shall be
responsible for summoning progress review meeting, calling for progress reports, identifying
constraints encountered on achieving the progress aimed at, and taking remedial action
thereto, with a view to examining whether the aforesaid objectives are successfully
accomplished.
10. In the event of calling any information required by the Director or by any other officer
authorized by him for the purpose of carrying out the provisions enacted under the Charter
a person shall be bound to furnish such information called for. If any person fails or refuses
to do so , he shall be considered to have committed an offence and action shall have to be
taken against him accordingly.
11. All activities meant for the accomplishment of aims and objectives outlined in this Charter
shall have to be in agreement with written law
Establishment
of a data system
and its updating
Progress review
and
Follow -up
Calling for
information
Agreeing with
the written law

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
10A
12. The powers rested in the Director for the accomplishment of the objectives of this Charter
shall be delegated in writing from time to time , to the Deputy Directors of Agriculture Assistant
Directors of Agriculture, Assistant Agriculture Instructors, an officer serving in the Department
Agriculture or to any other officer.
13. The District Secretary of the Province shall be the Chairman of the D.A.C. while the Deputy
Director of Agriculture shall be the Secretary to the committee.
(i) The DAC shall help discuss and implement agricultural activities of the District; maintain a
sand relationship among institutions engaged in agricultural field: calling for reports on crop
failures and effect remedial actions thereto; take decisions on following up of cultivable
paddy lands; discuss and approve special projects; plan new projects; review reports received
from the DAC and enquire into the agriculture progress of the district.
(ii) All Heads of Institutions who serve in the District attached to the agriculture field shall have
to participate in the DAC meetings chaired by the District Secretary and their participation
shall be compulsory.
14. The Divisional Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Divisional Agriculture Committee and
the Senior Agriculture Instructor in the Division shall hold the post of Secretary to the
Committee.
01. All Heads of Institutions engaged in agriculture field in the Division shall participate in the
Divisional Agriculture Committee meeting chaired by the Divisional Secretary. Their
participation in the Committee meeting shall be compulsory.
02.  The Divisional Agriculture Committee shall help discuss and implement agriculture activities
of the District; implement on Divisional level decision arrived at by the District Agriculture
Committee; build up a sound correlationship among the institution engaged in agriculture
activities for the purpose of coordination; implement projects at divisional level ; and evolve
plans relating to agriculture development the division.
15. The Advisory Committee shall be established by the Minister:
01 Committee members who shall be appointed to the Advisory Committee by Virtue of their
posts shall be as follows.
(a) Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture
(b) Director to Agriculture
(c) Deputy Directors representing Badulla and Monaragala Districts
(d) Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health
(e) Agrarian Service Officer in Badulla and Monaragala Districts with the concurrence of
the Secretary to the Line Ministry
02 The Agrarian Service Officers appointed by the Minister shall be four in number. The appointed
officers are hereinafter referred to as "appointed members" in this Charter.
 03 Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture shall be the Chairman of this Advisory Committee by
virture of the post held by him.
Delegation of
power
Composition of
the District
Agriculture
Committee and
its functions
Composition of
the Divisional
Agriculture
Committee and
its functions
Establishment
of Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
16. 01 (a) To submit proposals to the Minister in Charge of the subject to accomplish the
objectives of this Charter.
(b) To provide advice to the Minister of Agriculture on whatever matters connected with
the agriculture activities.
17. The Minister shall formulate the procedure for functioning of the Advisory Committee as well
as for whatever matters connected thereto
18. 01.  Provisions for the removal of members, appointed by the Minister, from their memberships
shall be made by the Minister him self. A member may resign from his membership by submitting
his resignation the Minister in writing.
02. In the event of any officer becoming incapable of discharging his official duties on account
of ill health, or for being away from the Island, or for any other reason, the Minister shall
appoint another officer in place of him, to suit the situation, to cover his duties.
19. A committee member shall hold his membership for a full period of three years unless he
resigns from his membership, or vacates his membership, or his membership is suppressed.
20. The Minister shall appoint a Advisory Committee on divisional level basis subject to under
mentioned composition in order to advise the Director on his agricultural activities implemented
in different agricultural zones in the division of the Province.
21. The composition of the aforesaid Divisional Advisory Committee shall be as follows:
01. (a) Divisional Secretary
(b) A member of the Divisional Council in the area
(c) All Chairmen of Agrarian Committees in the Division
(d) All Divisional Agrarian Officers in the Division
(e) All Agriculture Instructors in the Division
(f) One Grama seva Niladhari from each Agrarian Service Committee area
02. The Divisional Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the Division
03. The Senior Agriculture Instructor shall hold the post of Secretary to the Advisory Committee.
All matters referred to the Advisory Committee for consideration by the Director of Agriculture
or any other officer to whom his powers are delegated shall have to be attended and finalized
within a specified time by committee.
22. 01. To advise the Director on matters related to agriculture and agriculture  development as
well as on matters that pose problems.
02. To maintain reports on advice offered; to gather data and information required  and to have
them stored ; and to call for other necessary information
Duration of
Membership
Responsibility
of the Advisory
Committee
Composition of
the Divisional
Advisory
Committee
Functions of the
Divisional
Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'08
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.06.2011
12A
23. The Minister shall enact regulations on any matter that comes under the purview of this
Charter including on matters stated below.
 01. Preparation of policies related to agriculture
02. Provision of relief to people engaged in agriculture
24. The regulations enacted by the Minister shall have to submitted to the Provincial Council
promptly. The Minister shall have to proclaim the regulations that have been approved or
rejected by a Gazette notification
25. The regulations enacted by the Minister under this Charter, if rejected by the Provincial
Council while it is in force, the rejection shall be regarded as one with no prejudice whatsoever
to the actions taken under the regulation upto the time of its rejection.
26. Unless otherwise the context requires a different meaning , in this charter the term
"Minister" means the Minister in charge of Agriculture of Uva Province
"Minister at a time the Provincial Council is dissolved" means the Governor of Uva Province
"Divisional Secretaries" means the administrative officers in Divisional Secretary Divisional
Secretary Divisions.
"Other officers" means officers entrusted with official responsibilities to execute the activities
under the department of Agriculture
27. The meaning of words and phrases implied in the Sinhala text of this Charter shall prevail in
case of any discrepancy or contradiction in meaning between words and phrases used in
Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Charter.
06-501/2
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Powers vested
in the Minister
for enacting
regulation