

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Presented by Hon. (Dr.) Ramesh Pathirana M.P. for Galle  District
on 24th March, 2016
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 93]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on February 29, 2016)
PODDALA–MEEPAWALA SRI SUDARSHANARAMA
VIHARAYA EDUCATIONAL RELIEF FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
BILL
to incorporate the  Poddala–Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation
A
2—PL 009842—225 (03/2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Poddala-Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009781—300 (02/2016)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PODDALA-MEEPAWALA SRI
SUDARSHANARAMA VIHARAYA EDUCATIONAL RELIEF FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the "Poddala-
Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya Educational Relief
Foundation"  has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for
the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its member:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be public advantage to grant the
said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the Poddala-Meepawala
Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya Educational Relief Foundation
(Incorporation) Act,  No.    of  2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many person as now are members of the
"Poddala - Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation" (hereinafter referred to as
the "Foundation") or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession under the name and style
of the "Poddala - Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation"  (hereinafter referred to as
"the Corporation") and by that name may sue and be sued
with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:–
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Poddala -
Meepawala
Sri
Sudarshanarama
Viharaya
Educational
Relief
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Poddala-Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(a) to grant scholarships annually by to those children
selected from the poor income families living
permanently at the Gramaseva Niladhari Divisions
in the vicinity of Poddala-Meepawala Viharaya ;
and who has the knowledge and are active and able;
(b) to consider it as a basic qualification, that every
scholarship recipients must attend a Damma school
in order to foster the Buddhist Education and
Buddhist Culture;
(c) to grant scholarship annually to those students who
are differently able or lost parents; and
(d) to protect the good manners of respecting the
clergymen and teachers; and caring the parents and
elders which are evading from the society, through
educating the students such good manners.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the rule in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Trustees elected in accordance
with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Management of the
Foundation holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the  furtherance
of its objects or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank  accounts, to borrow or raise
moneys with or without security, to receive or collect grants
or donations, to invest its funds, to erect any building or
structure on any land held by the Corporation and to engage,
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Poddala-Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Trustees, for the
conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Trustees and generally, for the management of
the affairs of the Corporation and the accomplishment of its
objects. Such rules when made may at a like meeting and in
like manner, be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shal have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Trustees shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys, and property of the Corporation
whatsoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portion
25
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Poddala-Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
In this section "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such Institute;  or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners, of
which being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute established
by law possesses a certificate to practice as an Accountant
issued by the Council of such Institute.
9 The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Board as may be duly authorized
by the Board and another member of the Board who shall
sign their names on the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted,  and
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable

<!-- page 6 -->

5Poddala-Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Savings of
the Rights of
the Republic
and others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Indemnity
for acts done
in good faith.
Sinhala text
prevail in
case of
inconsistency
.
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Institution or Institutions shall be
determined by the board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
preceding for any act done, or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil Text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Poddala-Meepawala Sri Sudarshanarama Viharaya
Educational Relief Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .