

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1811
1811
wxl 1"830 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'09'27
No. 1,830 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 27, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1814
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1816
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,829 of 20.09.2013 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th October, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
October, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1812
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1813
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1814
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called for in terms of the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of the
Chairman and Members for the Board of Quazis
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized University or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized
by the Ministry in Charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Departm ent of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar qualification or a retired public servant who has held office in staff grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the Public Service (Other than Judicial Officer) shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married persons over 40 years of age, physically fit and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim Marriage and Divorce.
The Chairman of the Board of Quazis will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 12,000 and a travelling allowance of Rs. 2,500 per
meeting subject to a maximum of Rs. 10,000 per month and a Member of the Board of Quazis will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 10,000
and a travelling allowance of Rs. 2,000 per meeting subject to a maximum of Rs. 8,000 per month.
Applications, as per specimen below should be sent by Registered Post to reach me on or before 26th October 2013 with words
'Board of Quazis' written on the top left hand corner of the envelope originals of documents should not be forwarded with the application.
SISIRA RATNAYAKA,
Secretary (Acting),
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Colombo 12,
12th September, 2013.
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN AND MEMBERS FOR THE BOARD OF QUAZIS UNDER THE TERMS OF THE MUSLIM
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE ACT (CHAPTER 115) AS AMENDED BY ACTS, NO. 1 OF 1965 AND 32 OF 1969
1. Full Name  :
2. Name with initial :
3. Permanent residence :
4. Postal Address :

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1815
5. Date of birth :
6. Age :
7. Race :
8. Religion :
9. N. I. C. No. :
10. Telephone No. :
11. Educational Qualifications :
12. Professional Qualifications :
13. Languages which the applicant can read and write :
14. Does the applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? :
15. Is he married ? :
16. Are you an Attorney at Law ? If so, date of enrolment :
17. Past and present occupations (with date) :
From To Occupation
18. Value of possessed by applicant : Rs.
19. Monthly income : Rs.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1816
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
20. Amount of debts if any : Rs.
21. Were you actively engaged in politics durng the last ten years ? :
22. Are you an income tax payer ? :
23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :
24. Particulars of Court convictions if any :
25. Personal referees (They should be responsible person who known you well) :
(1) (2)
Name : Name :
Address : Address :
Occupation : Occupation :
Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you :
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note :
Attach all copies of the relevant certificate with this.
09–1216
GOVERNMENT  ANALYST'S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post
of Laboratory Assistant to the Training Grade of the
Sri Lanka Technological Service – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from both male/female citizens of Sri
Lanka with the under mentioned qualifications for recruitment to the
post of Laboratory Assistant to the Training Grade of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service to fill vacancies in the Government Analyst's
Department.
02. They would be selected based on a competitive examination
held by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
03. The competitive examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media within the month of December 2013 at the
examination centres in the towns mentioned in schedule 01 by the
Department of Examinations. If it is found that the number of
applicants for a particular centre is insufficient, such centres will be
cancelled and those applicants will be directed to the next closest
centre.
The towns where the examination would be held and those
numbers are mentioned in schedule 01. In the relevant cage of the
application, the town and its number should be filled according to
this schedule. According to the Gazette notification please indicate
the names of two towns and their numbers in the order of preference,
where you would like to sit for the examination. Please note that no
change in the medium or the town applied for is allowed later.
04. Method of Recruitment. – While 90% of the vacancies are
allocated for external candidates, applications will be called for by a
gazette notification or a pubilc notice and then an open competitive
examination will be held. Applicants who obtain the highest marks
will be called for and interview. (No marks will be awarded for the
interview). Then, those who have the necessary qualifications and

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1817
have obtained the highest marks for the two subjects will be recruited
to the Training Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
05. Educational and other qualifications :
5.1 For External Candidates :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) in six (06)
subjects in not more than two sittings with credit
passes including Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics,
Science and one other subject ; and
(b) Should have three (03) passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) in
the Science Stream in one sitting, one of which should
be Chemistry which is related to the service and two
other subjects (excluding the Common General Test)
out of Combined Maths, Physics, Biology and
Agriculture ; or
(c) Should have three (03) passes at the G . C. E (A/L) in
one sitting (Old Syllabus) with Chemistry which is
related to the service and two other subjects out of
Pure Maths, Applied Maths, Physics, Zoology,
Botany and Agriculture.
5.2 Applicants should not be less than 18 years of age and
should not be more than 45 years at the closing date of
application. (The upper age limit will not apply to the
officers who are already serving in the Public Service or
Provincial Public Service.
5.3 Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
5.4 Applicant should have an excellent moral character and
should be good health.
5.5 It is compulsory that every applicant should fulfill all the
requirements needed for the post, by the closing date of
the application.
06. Mode of application.– The application should conform to the
model application form attached to this notice. The application should
be prepared on A4 sized paper, using one side and should be filled
with own handwriting by the candidate himself/herself. Duly
completed application forms should be sent by registered post to
reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examination Branch, Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 28.10.2013. On the top left
hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed
"Post of Laboratory Assistant - Government Analyst's Department"
should be mentioned. Applicants already in the Public Service or
Provincial Public Service should send in their applications through
the Head of their Department. Incomplete application or applications
received after the closing date will be rejected. Receipt of application
will not be acknowledged. Retaining a photocopy of the appilcation
would be useful. When preparing the application, the name of the
examination should be mentioned in English , along with the name of
the exam in Sinhala or Tamil. Applications should be prepared with
headings 01 to 07 on the first page and the rest on pages 2/3
respectively. Applicants should check to see whether the completed
application conforms to the model application form in the examination
notice. If it is not so, the application will be rejected.
07. The admission card, date of examination and the examination
time table will be issued to the candidate by the Commissioner
General of examinations. The examination candidate should forward
their admission cards with their signature certified, to the Chief
Invigilator of the Examination hall. Candidates who faill to present
their admission card will not be allowed to sit the examination. As
soon as admission cards are posted to candidates, the Sri Lanka
Department of examinations will publish a notice in the newspapers
to this effect. If admission cards are not received even 2 or 3 days
after the notice, this should be brought to the attention of the
Department of examinations. to do so photocopies of your
application, receipt of examination fee paid and postal registration
receipt should be sent to the Sri Lanka Examination Department
together with a letter giving a fax number if you are residing outside
Colombo, so that it will enable us to fax the admission card. It will be
useful to keep a photocopy of the letter you send.
08. Only the national identity card or a valid passport will be
accepted to certify the identity at the written examination. All
examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules and regulations
set by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the
examinations. A candidate who violates any of the rules or regulations
is liable to punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
09. On the assumption that only those who have the necessary
qualifications mentioned in this notice have applied, all those who
have forwarded applications in accordance with the notice would be
allowed to sit the competitive examination. The fact that a candidate
is issued an admission card is not conclusive exmination. The fact
that a candidate is issued an admission card is not conclusive that the
candidate is suitable for the post. The best performers of the written
examination will be called for an interview and if it is revealed that
they do not possess the required qualifications, then they will be
considered disqualified for the post.
10. The right to take a decision upon any matter not covered in
this notification and the right to take the final decision on granting
appointments remains with the Government Analyst.
11. The signature of the candidate in the application form should
be certified either by a principal of government school, Justice of
Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public, an officer of the three
armed forces who has power of authority or by an officer holding a
permanent post in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service
drawing a basic annual salary of more than Rs. 237,060.
12. Examination Fee.– A non-refundable examination fee of Rs. 600
should be credited to the Commissioner General of Examinations
Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 at the Provincial/District Secretarial
Office by the applicant and the receipt should be firmly fixed to the
application form and sent. Cheques will not be accepted. It will be
useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt for fees paid.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1818
13. Written Examination.– This competitive examination will be
held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media by the Sri Lanka Department
of Examinations. A candidate is required to answer all the question
papers in one and the same language at the examination. The written
examination will consist of the following two papers.
(i) Aptitude Test.
(ii) Chemistry (Technical Question Paper).
14. Syllabus :
(1) Aptitude Test : Time 01 hour/Total marks 100
This question paper will consist of a total of 50 questions,
both multiple choice questions and questions which require
short answers. All the questions have to be answered.
This paper will consist of questions which asses the
candidate's logical reasoning, statistical skills, analytical
skills and general intelligence.
(2) Chemistry (Technical Question paper) : Time 02 hours/
Total marks 100
This paper consists of structural essay type questions,
where all questions have to be answered. This paper will
be prepared giving more attention to the sections in the
G . C. E. (A/L) Chemistry syllabus, which are relevant to
the aboe post.
15. Selection process.– To qualify, the candidate should obtain
40% or more for each subject. Out of those who qualify at this
examination, candidates who obtain the highest marks will be called
for an interview and their qualifications will be examined. Marks will
not be awarded for the interview. Those who have the necessary
qualifications and have obtained the highest marks for both subjects
will be selected and recruited to the Training Grade.
16. Applicants will be required to present the following documents
when necessary :
(a) The highest Educational and Technical Certificates
obtained.
(b) Birth certificate issued by the Registrar General.
(c) Three (03) recently obtained character certificates. (Out
of which one should be from the principal of school which
you last attended and the other from the Grama Niladari
of your area).
17. Medical Examination.– Selected candidates will be erquired
to undergo a medical examination to prove their physical fitness to
serve in any part of the island. Those who are found unsuitable at the
medical examination will be disqualified.
18. Salary Scale.– (According to Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006 and the amendments related to it.)
Training Grade - MN 1-2006A - Rs. 13,120 -1 x 145 - Rs. 13,265.
Laboratory Assistant II Section "B" - MN3- 2006A - Rs. 15,005
- 4 x 180 - 6 x24 0 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
Note.– On passing the examination held at the end of two (2)
years of theoretical and practical training obtained according
to the syllabus relevant to the service, the applicants who
are recruited to the Training Grade will be appointed to
Class II Section "B" of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
19. Conditions of Service :
19.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. After two years
of training the appointments will be on probation for a
period of 03 years. Selected candidates should contribute
to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
19.2 Selected candidates will be subject to Sri Lanka
Technological Service Minute, the Establishment Code,
Financial Regulations, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations already
issued or which may be issued by the Government from
time to time.
19.3 An officer, who is recruited to the public service in a
language other than an official language, is required to
pass the official Language Test within 3 years from the
date of appointment. Failure to pass this test within the
prescribed period will result in the deferment of the next
increment.
19.4 In accordance with the Public Administration Circular
No. 7/2007, an officer is required to obtain proficiency in
the second official language up to the level needed for his/
her post within 5 years from the date of permanent
appointment. Failure in obtaining proficiency within the
prescribed period would resutl in a stoppage of increment
until such proficiency is obtained.
19.5 Conditions or Recruitment mentioned in Procedural
Regulations of Public Service Commission published in
the Extra Ordinary Gazette 1,589/30 is applicable to this
post.
19.6 Special :
(i) Before accepting duties selected applicants should
sign a bond with 2 guarantors accepted by the Head
of the Department stating that he/she would serve
the department for a minimum period of 7 years and
that if he/she fails to do so, he/she would pay the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka a sum of
Rs. 250,000 valid money and the salaries allowances
and all other expenses borne by the government up to
that date.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1819
(ii) They will be called upon to serve in any part of the
island.
20. In case of inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English
translations of this Gazette notice, Sinhala text is to prevail.
W. D. G. S. GUNATILLEKE,
Government Analyst.
Government Analyst's Department,
No. 31, Isuru Mawatha,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
On this........
SCHEDULE 01
T
OWNS AND TOWN NUMBERS OF EXAMINATION CENTRES
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Matara 03
Kurunegala 04
Anuradhapura 05
Rathnapura 06
Badulla 07
Jaffna 08
Batticoloa 09
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LABORATORY ASSISTANT TO THE TRAINING
GRADE OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2013
01. ( a) Medium of examination : Sinhala - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage) T amil - 3
English - 4
(b) Town and Town Number where you would like to sit the examination : Town Town Number
1.
2.
(According to Schedule 01 of the Gazette Notification, state the town and town number in order of preference, where you would
like to sit the examination).
02. ( a) Name with initials at the end, in English Capital letters : (Eg. : SILV A A. B. C.) :
(b) Name with initials at the end (In Sinhala/Tamil) :
Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
(c) Names indicated by the initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
(d) Names indicated by the initials in English Capital letters :
03. Permanent Address :
(a) (In Sinhala/Tamil) :
(b) In English Capital letters :
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
(c) District of permanent residence :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1820
(d) Provincial Secretariat Division :–––––––––––––.
(e) Your telephone number :–––––––––––––.
04. Gender : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. Civil Status : Married - 1
Unmarried - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
06. Ethnicity :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
Other - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
07. National Identity Card Number :
08. ( a) Date of birth : Y ear : Month : Date :
(b) Age on 28.10.2013 : Ye ars : Months : Days :
09. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination:
First Attempt Second Attempt :
Year :–––––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Sub ject Grade
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––––.         Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject G rade
10. Professional qualifications/Technical qualifications :
(a) Degree/Diploma obtained :–––––––––––––.
(b) Name of the Institute which conferred the degree/diploma :–––––––––––––.
(c) Date of validity of degree/ diploma :–––––––––––––.
11. Other qualifications :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1821
12 Have you been punished by any court of law for any criminal offence ? Yes/No
(a) If yes, state details :–––––––––––––.
13. If applicant is pres ently serving in a Government or Provincial Government Service state the post, department and address :–––––––.
14. If applicant has served in a Government or Provincial Government service before and left, give reasons for leaving :–––––––––––––.
15. Details on examination fee paid :
(a) The name of the office where the examination fee was paid :–––––––––––––.
(b) Receipt No. :–––––––––––––.
(c) Date of payment :–––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here firmly
(Retain a photocopy of the receipt)
16. Applicant's Declaration :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I am aware that if it is revealed that I am not suitable to this post according to the conditions of this examination, I am liable to be
disqualified and if it is revealed after the selection, I am liable to be dismissed from the service. I further state that I am obliged by any decision
taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
17. Certification of signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................................, who is forwarding this application is personally known to me and that
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.
––––––––––––––––,
The signature of the officer.
certifying the signature
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––. Address :–––––––––––––.
(If you are an applicant who is serving the Central Government or Provincial Public Service at present, the following certificate has
to be filled by the Head of the Department).
Certificate of the Head of the Department of Central Government or Provincial Public Service :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................................... is serving at .................................... office from .....................
(date) ................. in the capacity of .................................. and that his/her service is satisfactory. I would like to inform you that if he/she is
selected to a post on the result of the examination, he/she can/cannot be released from the service and the details given above are true and
correct.
––––––––––––––,
The signature of Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(For those already in Central Government or Provincial Public Service).
09–1125

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1822
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION OF  SRI  LANKA
AYURVEDIC  MEDICAL  SERVICE - 2013(II)
IT is hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination for Ayurvedic
Medical Service (For Ayurvedic Medical Officers) will be held in
Colombo by the Department of Ayurveda.
01. Candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
02. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appendix to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/herself. Application should be sent by those
who are qualified according to the service minute of the Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service, by the registered post through the
respective Heads of Institution to reach the "Registrar, Examination
Division, Department of Ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama" on or
before 15.10.2013 "Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service - 2013(II)" should be indicated at the
top left hand corner of the envelope cntaining the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 200 should be affixed for the whole examinations for subsequent
sittings and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 per subject should be
affixed if not applying for the whole exaination. The stamp should
be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date.
Under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded or transferred.
03. Identity of the candidates. – Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
04. The Commissioner, Department of Ayurveda will issue the
time table and admission card to all candidates whose applications
have been accepted. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and submit to the supervisor of
the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not
be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate has not
received his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the
day of examination, He/She should without delay inform the
"Registrar, Examination Division, Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna, Maharagama" about the non-receipt of admission cards
along with the following information :
(i) Name of the Examination :
(ii) Full name of the candidate :
(iii) Postal address :
(iv) Name of the Post Office, Registration Number and date
of the receipt :
05. Scheme of Examination. (According to the service minute of
the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service).
(i) Financial Regulation.– One paper based on the following :
(i) Financial Regulation of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X).
(ii) Establishment Code.– One paper based on the following:
(i) Chapters - I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIII,
XIV , XXIII, XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXXII of the
V olume I of the Establishment Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and
Procedural Rules Code of the Public Service
Commission.
(ii) Chapters - XLVII and XLVIII of Part II of the
Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(iii) Hospital Administration.– One paper based on the
following :
(i) General rules and regulations relevant to the hospitals.
(ii) Cleanliness in hospital.
(iii) Ruels and Regulations relevant to the patients.
(iv) Supply proper meals to the patients.
(v) Administration of drug manufactures.
(vi) Rules and Regulations regarding the admission of
patients.
(vii) Knowledge of the duties of all the employees in the
hospitals.
(viii) General administration in hospitals.
(ix) General administration of the Department of
Ayurveda.
(x) Regulation of the stores accounts of the Department
of Ayurveda.
(xi) Manual of procedure of the Department of Ayurveda.
(iv) Official Languages.– Oral test. Sinhala/Tamil (15
minutes) :
(i) For officers who joined the service in Sinhala medium :
(a) Answering the Tamil questions in Tamil Language.
(b) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.
(c) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(ii) For officers who joined the service in Tamil medium :
(a) Answering the Sinhala questions in Sinhala
Language.
(b) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(c) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1823
Note.– Candidate must obtain at least 40 marks to pass in
each subject.
P . S. K. R. WEERAKOON,
Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda.
Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna,
Maharagama,
09th September, 2013.
Specimen  Application  Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION OF SRI LANKA
AYURVEDIC MEDICAL SERVICE – 2013(II)
Index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
Sinhala – S, Tamil – T
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
02. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
04. Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil letters)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute
(In English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Province of the Office/Department/Institute :––––––––––.
07. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) T elephone No. (Official) :––––––––––––.
08. (i) Post :––––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment :–––––––––.
09. Subject/Subjects you wish to face :
Serial Number Subject Subject No.
10. Have you passed one or more subjects from any of the following
subjects in previous examination sittings. Financial Regulations/
Establishment Code/Hospitals Management/Oral Examination
(Tamil/Sinhala).
If so, Index No. and Year :––––––––––––.
Subject Index No. Y ear
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––.
If not, value of the stamps affixed :––––––––––––.
Stamp cage :
Stamp to the value of Rs. 200 for the whole
examination and Rs. 50 for each subject.
Note.– The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant
value and cancel them by placing their signature and
date. Stamps should not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true that I am eligible to
appear for the examination in the language medium indicated above.
I also certify that the Rs. .................... stamps affixed here to are
genuine and have not been used before. I agree to abide by the rules
and regulations of this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head
of his/her Department/Institute or an officer authorized
to sign on behalf of such Head of the Department.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I do hereby certify that ............................. who forward this
application is an officer attached to my office/known to me
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature before me on
.........................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and rubber stamp of the attester.
Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
09–1093

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1824
AMENDMENT
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers' Colleges – 2013/2014
(a) 07(iv) of the Gazette Notification :
Should have three years service as a teacher by 05.07.2013
(This is applicable to teachers who are working in the
Government Schools).
The responsibility of releasing teachers to follow the teacher
training course belongs to the relevant Provincial Director of
Education.
(b) 09(II)(c.) of the Gazette Notification :
The closing date of receiving duly completed applications is
extended to 15.10.2013.
A
NURA DISSANAY AKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
13th September, 2013.
09–1196
––––––––––––––––
ATTORNEY  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Posts of Stenographer – Class III in the Attorney General's
Department – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible citizens in Sri Lanka to fill
vacancies in the following posts in the Attorney General's
Department.
(a) Class III Posts of Stenographer - Sinhala Medium 14
(b) Class III Posts of Stenographer - English Medium 12
(c) Class III Posts of Stenographer - Tamil Medium 02
02. Receipt of applications.– Applications should be prepared in
accordance with the specimen set out at the end of this Gazette
Notification by the candidate using both sides of ‘A4’ size paper (21
x 29cm). Headings 01 to 03 should be entered on the first page, 04 to
08 on the second page and the rest on page three and relevant
particulars should be entered in the candidate's own handwriting
very clearly. Applications which do not conform to the specimen
application form and incomplete applications will be rejected without
notice. It would be advisable to retain a copy of the application.
Further, it is essential that the name of the Examination should be
given in applications in Sinhala, in English in addition and in
applications in Tamil in English in addition. Applications prepared
in the medium in which candidate sit the examination should be
forwarded to the address “Attorney General, Attorney General's
Department, P. O. Box 502, Colombo 12” under registered cover on
or before 25th October, 2013.
(a) The top left hand corner of the envelope should carry the
words as "Recruitment to Posts of Stenographer - 2013".
(b) Officers in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service
should forward their applications through the Heads of
their institutions before the due date.
(c) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. It will
not be possible to consider complaints to the effect that an
application or documents connected therewith were lost or
delayed in the post.
(d) Applications which do not conform to the specimen
application form, applications which are incomplete and
those receive after the closing date will be rejected without
any notice.
03. The Identity of the Candidate.– All candidates should establish
their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination
hall. Only one of the following documents will be accepted for this
purpose.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
04. False Information.– Accurate information should be furnished
when filling the application. If it is revealed that a candidate does not
possess the required qualifications, the candidature can be annulled
at any stage before, during or after the examination. If it comes to the
light that some fact presented is incorrect, he/she may be dismissed
from the public service.
05. Monthly salary scale entitled to this post .– MN 1-2006(A)
Rs. 13,120 - 10x 145 - 11 x170 - 10x 240 - 10 x 320 - Rs. 22,040 in
terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 and salaries
are paid in terms of the provisions in that circular. Efficiency Bar
Examination should be passed before salary step four.
06. The Examination Fee.– Fee for this examination is Rs. 350.
That examination fee should be credited to the Account No.
007041486 in the name of "Attorney General" at the Taprobane
Branch of Bank of Ceylon and the receipt obtained should be pasted
to the relevant cage in the application (mentioning the branch issued,
number and date). For no reason will the payment made for the
examination be refunded. It would be advisable to retain a photocopy
of the receipt.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1825
07. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years of age or more
than 30 years of age on the last day for the receipt of applications.
08. Conditions of Employment in the Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
have to be paid for the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension (W & OP). Appointment is subject to a probation
period of three (03) years.
The provisions in the procedural rules No. 1,589/30 dated
20.02.2009 issued by the Public Service Commission are
applicable.
(ii) If an officer serving in a permanent post in the Public
Service/Provincial Public Service is selected, he/she shall
be subject to one year trial period.
(iii) The relevant level of language proficiency should be
obtained within the prescribed time period as per the Public
Administration Circular No. 7/2007 and the Circulars
incidental thereof.
(iv) Shall work at Colombo 12. The Attorney General's
Department.
09. Educational and other qualifications :
(i) Educational Qualifications :
(a) Pass in 06 subjects with 04 credit passes including
Mathematics and Sinhala/English/Tamil Language in
one sitting at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
and
(b) At least pass in one subject (Excluding General Test
and General English under New Syllabus) at General
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
Examination.
(ii) Vocational Qualifications.– Having followed a course on
typing and shorthand not less than six months (06)
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission, in the relevant language of application to the
post.
(iii) Experience :
(a) Having served in a Court/Labour Tribunal in the
capacity of Casual, Contract or Trainee Stenographer
for not less than six (06) months ;
or
(b) Having undergone a practical training for not less than
six (06) months in an institution recognized by the
Government.
10. Candidates should be prepared to forward the originals of the
following documents in case of necessary :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Educational Certificates,
(iii) Two character certificates taken recently.
11. Methodology of selection to appointment. – This Open
Competitive Examination for recruitment consists of a Written
Examination and a V ocational test. Written Examination is held first
and forty percent (40%) marks or more out of 100 marks should be
taken for each subject in order to pass. Twice of the number of
vacancies will be called for the vocational test in sequence with
highest marks obtained among passed candidates. Selection will be
made on the merit order of aggregate marks among the candidates
who score forty percent (40%) or more at the vocational test. (It is
mandatory to satisfy all the qualifications set out in this notice).
(i) Candidates should appear for the examination in the medium
of language applied for the posts. (Ex.- Candidates apply
for English Medium posts should appear for examination
in the English Medium). It is not allowed to change language
applied for subsequently.
(ii) Appointments will be made for Sinhala medium posts on
the merit of aggregate marks of Sinhala medium candidates,
for English medium posts on the merit of aggregate marks
of English medium candidates, for Tamil medium posts on
the merit of aggregate marks of Tamil medium candidates.
(iii) This examination will be held in November, 2013 in Colombo
only.
12. Method of selection :
12.1 Written Examination :
Question Paper Marks Time
(i) Intelligence Test 100 02 hrs.
(ii) General Knowledge 100 02 hrs.
(i) Intelligence Test. – This is expected to evaluate
candidate's general knowledge, reasoning ability
expression of ideas, numerical skills and knoweldge
on understanding, quantification, understanding the
relationship between time and space through
responses to problems presented in numerical
expressions and graphs.
(ii) General Knowledge .– This paper focuses on the
candidate's ability on font style, usage of grammar,
clear expressions, knowledge of idiomatic expressions,
summarizing and writing essays in respect of social
cultural, educational poticial, economic and other
relevant factors in National, Zonal and Various
organizational background in the entire world as well
as our society.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1826
12.2 Vocational Test :
Question Paper Marks Passing
marks
(i) Sinhala/Tamil Stenography 100 40
(ii) English St enography 100 40
(i) Sinhala/Tamil Stenography :
(a) Take down in shorthand a paragraph,
uninterruptedly read within a five minutes at the
speed of 70 words per minutes and type the same
note at the speed of 08 words per minute ;
and
(b) Type for 20 minutes at the minimum speed of 30
words per minute.
(ii) English Stenography :
(a) Take down in shorthand a paragraph,
uninterruptedly read within a five minutes at the
speed of 80 words per minute and type the same
note at the speed of 08 words per minute ;
and
(b) Type for 20 minutes at the minimum speed of 40
words per minute.
13. Appearance for the examination .– Admission cards for the
examination will be issued so as to receive it a week prior to the
scheduled date of the examination. Candidates without admission
cards will not be permitted to sit the examination. Candidates who
appear for the examination should produce the supervisor of the
examination, their signatures attested admission cards.
Immediately after admission cards are issued to the candidates a
paper notification informing the same will be issued. If a candidate
has not received his/her admission card after 2 or 3 days of the
notification he/she should communicate with the Attorney General's
Department. It will be useful to make inquiries with certified copies
of the application, the receipt of the payment and the receipt of
registration retained by you and with your request letter in which a
fax number has been mentioned to send the admission card if outside
of Colombo.
14. Signature of the candidate should be attested by a Principal of
Govt. School, a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, a Notary
Public, a Commissioned Officer of Armed Forces and an Officer
holding a Gazetted Post in the Police Service or an officer receiving a
salary of Rs. 240,360 or more and holding a permanent post in the
Public or Provincial Public Service.
15. Candidates are subject to all rules and regulations imposed in
respect of the conduction of the examination, he/she should be liable
to a penalty imposed if breach of such rules and regulations.
16. The Attorney General has the final decision in respect of
conduction of the examination, appointments and all other factors.
Note.– In the event of any inconsistency, among notifications
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium in this gazette
notification, Sinhala medium shall prevail.
S. P
ALITHA FERNANDO,
President's Counsel,
Attorney General.
Attorney General's Department,
Colombo 12,
On 27th September, 2013.
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
T
HE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE
POST OF STENOGRAPHER (GRADE III) IN THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S
DEPARTMENT - 2013
Medium in which the candidate appears for the examination :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
1.0 1.1 Name of the candidate with initials :–––––––––––.
(In capital letters) (Eg.- PERERA  A. B. C.)
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
1.5 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
(i) In Sinhala/Tmail :–––––––––––.
(ii) In ca pital letters :–––––––––––.
2.4 Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Marital status :
Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
(Indicate in the relevant cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1827
3.3 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Whether you are a citizen in Sri Lanka from birth or
registration ? :–––––––––––.
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and the month of the Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
16
27
38
49
51 0
4.2 Details in respect of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and the month of the Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
 Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
5.0 Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Course Duration Institute
6.0 Experience :
Name of the Institute in Duration
which trained or worked
7.0 Have you ever been convicted for any offence in the Court of
Law ? (Indicate 3 in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
If so convicted, provide details of nature of the offence, the
Court which gave the conviction and nature of the conviction.
8.0 Details of the receipt of the payment of the exam fee :
(i) Name of the branch of Bank of Ceylon to which the exam
fees were made :–––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Firmly affix the receipt here
9.0 Certificate of candidate :
(a) I do honourably declare that the particulars furnished by
me in this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to bear the loss arising due to failure to
fill any information and/or filling information in an inaccurate
manner. Further, I declare that all ifnormation have been
perfectly completed.
(b) I agree to act according to the rules of the examination and
also accept the decision given to cancel my candidacy before
or after the examination in case it is found that I am not
eligible in accordance with the conditions.
(c) I am also aware that if it appears this statement made by
me is inaccurate I am liable to be disqualified and liable to be
dismissed from the service even after appointment.
(d) No information mentioned in this will be changed.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10.0 Attestation of signature of candidate :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who is forwarding
this application is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her
signature before me on ............................
––––––––––––––,
Attester's signature and Seal.
Full name of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
(Relevant to the officers serving in the Public Service)
I certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... is
serving in the post of ............................ and particulars given by
him/her true. Further if selected for this post he/she can/cannot be
released from .....................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
09–1153

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1828
DEPARTMENT  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH
Efficiency Bar Examination I and II for the Officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock
Development Officers’ Service – 2010/2011(2013)
IT is hereby informed that the Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in the above service is expected to be held in Colombo in January,
2014. Accordingly applications are being called from the officers in service as at 31st May, 2013 in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development
Officers’ Service in the Department of Animal Production and Health.
02. The time tables will be prepared enabling the officers to sit for the two Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus.– The syllabus and the other provisions which govern the Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II are stipulated in the
service minute. The syllabus for the Efficiency Bar Examination I and II for the officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Service are
stated in Annexure ‘A’ and ‘B’ respectively. A candidate is allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination in one or several
attempts.
04. Followings are the subjects for which the officers should sit in the said Efficiency Bar Examination.
Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers Service :
E. B. Examination I E. B. Examination II
Subject Subject Duration S ubject Subject Duration
No. (hours) No. (hours)
01 Office Administration and 02 03 Office Administration and 02
Establishment Code Establishment Code
02 Financial Regulations 02 04 Financial Regulations 02
(Note.– The aggregate marks for each paper is 100 and candidates should score a minimum of 40% or more for each paper to pass the
Efficiency Bar Examination I and II).
05. The attention of the officers who wish to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination is drawn to the Section 5 of Treasury Circular
No. 701, dated 04th September, 1966 stated below :-
The medium of the departmental examinations (including the promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the medium
or the Official Language in which the applicant sat for the admission test to enter the Public Service. But the medium for promotional or
Efficiency Bar Examinations for those who have joined the service without a competitive examination should be the language or National
Language which the officer became eligible to gain entry to the service.
06. The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium, where a candidate should answer all the papers in one
language medium. Nevertheless, permission will not be given to change the medium later.
07. If it is revealed even later that a candidate has appeared for the examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to, his/h er
candidature will be cancelled.
08. Application should be prepared using both sides of an A4 paper according to the specimen application appended. Cages 01-
08 should appear on page 01 and the balance on the page 02. The application should be completed by the candidate in his/her handwriting
and the applications which are incomplete or not prepared according to the specimen form will be rejected without notice. Possession of a
photocopy of the duly completed application form with the applicant will be useful. The applicant should ensure that the comple ted
application form is in compliance with the specimen application form and non compliant applications will be rejected. It is nec essary to
write the name of the examination on the top of the specimen application in English too in the applications prepared in Sinhala and Tamil.
The candidates who wish to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II should send separate applications for each
examination.
09. The examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations and all candidates are bound to abide by the rules
and regulation enacted by him. The rules and regulations have been given at the end of this notice. Candidates are subjected to such rules and
regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations and if violated, the candidate should have to face penalty imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1829
10. Application should be sent through the Head of the Institution by registered post to reach the Director General, Department
of Animal Production and Health, on or before 25.10.2013. Applications received after this date will be rejected.
11. A notification will be published by the Department of Examination in the Newspapers immediately after admission cards are
issued to the candidates and any candidate who did not receive the admission cards even 2 or 3 days subsequent to the Newspaper
advertisement should inform the Department of Examinations as instructed in the notice. It is advisable to inform the Departmen t of
Examinations by having following the items stand by : the certified photostat copy of the receipt of payments, application form s, receipt
of registration and if you stay outside Colombo your letter of request giving fax number enabling to send the admission card.
12. The candidates who are unable to comply with requirements stated in the above paragraph 11 and produce documents later
will not be considered.
13. Attention of all the candidates will be drawn to the Circular No. SE 274 dated 29th June, 1971, issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations with regard to the submission of Identity Cards. It is the responsibility of the candidate to prove thi s identity at
the examination hall. Only an Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or a valid passport, will be accepted
in proof of identity of the applicant to the supervisor of the examination held by the Department of Examination Sri Lanka. The signature
of the candidate in the admission card should be attested and produced to the Supervisor at the commencement of the examination.
14. It has been decided to levy the examination fees from the candidates on the following basis :
(a) No fee has will be levied for the whole examinations or part of it at the first attempt.
(b) Thereafter for each attempt :
Rs. cts.
For whole examination 400 0
Each subject 100 0
This fee should be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations at any District/Divisional
Secretariat Office and the receipt received by the name of the candidate himself/herself should be affixed properly in the relevant cage of the
application form.
The candidates who have already sat for the examination are advised to pay the relevant fees stated above.
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45,
St. Michales Road, Colombo 03,
09th September, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
D
EPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
FIRST AND SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS’ SERVICE 2010/2011(2013)
(The top left hand corner of the envelope should bear the name of the examination)
01. Medium of Language of the examination of the officer sit in Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(State the relevant number in the cage)
02. Name of the Examination of the officer applied for :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination - 1
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - 2
(State the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1830
03. ( a) Last name with initials (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
Ex : FERNANDO B. A.
(b) Name denoted by initials (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
04. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
05. NIC No. :
06. Subjects offered (should be stated clearly) with the subject numbers as indicated in the fourth paragraph of the notification:
(i) Subject No. Subject ....................
(ii) Subject No. Subject ....................
07. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
08. Designation :–––––––––.
Name of Department :–––––––––.
09. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers’ Service :–––––––––.
10. State whether you have sat for the examination previously in whole or in part. If so state subjects, year and month :––––––– ––.
Declaration by the candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above.
Further I also agree to be bound by the rules and regulations enacted with regard to conducting of the said examination and the
examination results which would be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
11. *Fees paid Rs. :–––––––––.
Affix the receipt so as to be untouchable.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health,
Forwarded :-
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear herein is correct and she/he is eligible to sit for the examination in the medium
of language she/he indicated in paragraph 01.
I also certified that the examination fees Rs. ..................... has been properly paid and the relevant receipt is affixed  by the
candidate.
I attest the candidate’s signature.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :–––––––––.
(* cut off if no fee is payable)

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1831
Annexure A
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service consists of the
following subjects :
1. Office Administration and the Establishment Code (Total Marks 100) ;
2. Financial Regulations (Total Marks 100).
01. Office Administration and the Establishment Code :
The paper on Office Administration and Establishment Code is based on the following. Establishment Code Chapter II, III, IV , V ,
VIII, XII, XIII, XIV , XIX, XLVIII.
*Note.– A candidate should score 40% marks or above for the pass mark.
02. Financial Regulations.– This paper is based on the following chapters of the FInancial Regulations.
Chapter I
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue
Consolidated Fund, Annual Estimates, Variations to Annual Estimates (From F. R. 1 to 68).
Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability
Chief Accounting Officer, Accounting Officers, Revenue Account Officers, Delegation of power for payments.
Approval Ordination of Certification (F.R. 124-147).
*Note.– Candidate should score 40% for the pass mark.
Candidate may sit for the above subjects separately.
Annexure B
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service consists
of the following subjects  :
1. Office Administration and the Establishment Code. (Total Marks 100).
2. Financial Regulations (Total Marks 100).
01. Office Administration and the Establishment Code :
The paper on Office Administration and Establishment Code is based on the following :
Establishment Code Chapter XV , XVI, XXIII, XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XLVII, XLVIII.
The Public Administration Circulars will be applicable in case of Appraisal of performance of officers.
Note.– A candidate should score 40% marks or above for the pass mark.
02. Financial Regulations.– This question paper is based on the following Chapter of the Financial Regulations.
Chapter VI
Custody of public money, Imprest and Bank Accounts, Security of Public Finance, Boards of Survey, Overdrafts and Bank
Account (F. R. 315 to 396).
Chapter XIII
Supplies and Service :
Purchasing process, verification of stores, storing process, Deviation from the contract tender procedure (from F. R. 708-
775).
*Note.– Candidate should score 40% or above for the pass mark. Candidate may sit for the above subjects separately.
09–1152

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1832
MINISTRY  OF  LANDS  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO POSTS IN  SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
WHICH REMAIN V ACANT IN THE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination to be held to recrui t to
the posts in Sri Lanka Technological Service which remain vacant in Survey Department.
1.1 Posts to be recruited :
Table No. 01
Serial No. Designation Number of Grade for which
Vacancies to be filled recruitment is made
1 Map Technological Officer 212 Trainee Grade
2 Remote sensing technician Only in Head Office in 06 Trainee Grade
3 Air photo lab technician Colombo. Should be worked in 01 Trainee Grade
4 Litho printer the head office in Colombo during 05 Trainee Grade
5 Building supervisor the entire period of service 01 Grade III
6 Transport officer 01 Grade III
1.2 Nature of duties of posts :
Table No. 02 Nature of duties of posts
Serial No. Designation Nature of duty/Main functions
1 Map Technological Officer Map production and technical work in relation to such work, preliminary and
final work of surveying and maintenance of records in relation to such work.
2 Remote Sensing T echnician Interpretation and analyzing from aerial photos and satellite data and production
of maps using them, computerizing of them and providing the data required.
3 Air photo lab Technician Take three dimension photographs rising into the air and developing of such films
and preparation of films require for photogrammetric using such film,
preparation of enlarge printing, rectified photocopies and contact printing.
4 Litho printer Printing of maps
5 Building Supervisor 01. Preparation of annual building maintenance plan.
02. propose the building maintenance process to the management.
03. Supervising of employee gangs.
04. Storing of raw material required for maintenance, tools and management.
05. Taking quantity surveying for payments and obtaining of approvals.
6 Transport officer 01. Supplying of technical information require for maintenance of departmental
vehicles in roadworthy condition.
02. Providing of approval and recommendation report require for repairs.
03. Supervision of roadworthy condition of vehicles after repairs, supervision of
maintenance of vehicles.
04. Giving instruction to drivers.
05. In case of accident immediate investigations and providing reports and
condemnation of wrecked vehicles.
06. Adjusting of vehicle to obtain environment friendly certificates.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1833
2.0 The number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. The appointing
authority has power to fill all or any number of vacancies.
3.0 Salaries :
Table No. 03
Grade Salary Scale Initial monthly salary
Trainee Grade Year 1 monthly Rs. 12,920
No Year 2 monthly Rs. 13,040
* Subject to provision 09 in section 14 of
P. A. 06/2006(11)
Grade III Monthly Rs. 15,005-4x180- 6x240- 11x320- Rs. 15,005
20x360- Rs. 27,885 (MN3-2006 A)
Grade II Monthly Rs. 15,005-4x180- 6x240- 11x320- Rs. 17,485
20x360- Rs. 27,885
(Initiate from salary step 12) (MN3-2006 A)
Grade I Monthly Rs. 15,005-4x180- 6x240- 11x320- Rs. 21,045
20x360- Rs. 27,885
(Initiate from salary step 23) (MN3-2006 A)
Special Grade Monthly Rs. 20,030- 11x 365-18 x500 - Rs. 20,030
(not applicable for the posts of Rs. 33,045
building supervisor and (MN7-2006 A)
transport officer
4.0 These posts are permanent and pensionable. Appointment is subject to 03 years probation period and selected candidates
to the posts of Map Technological Officer are bound to serve in any part of the country. Since the remaining posts are availabl e only at
head office in Colombo you should serve in the head office during the entire period of service and subject to general conditions applicable
to appointment to the public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette Notification.
5.0 Qualifications :–
5.1 Basic Qualifications :
(01) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(02) Minimum age should be 18 years and maximum age should be 45 years as at the closing date of application.
(The maximum age limit is not applicable for those who hold a permanent post already in the public service).
5.2 Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects within not more than two sittings with credit
passes for Language or Literature, Mathematics, Science and for one another subject ; and
(b) Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) examination (except Common General Test) in three Science subjects in
one sitting including two subjects from amongst the Combined Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry.
* Those who apply for the post of Building Supervisor and transport officer should have obtained the following
vocational qualifications in addition to the qualifications in 5.1 and 5.2 above.
01. Building supervisor :
(i) Should have obtained three year part time training course of National Technological Certificate in a
government recognized technical college.
(ii) Should have completed level 5 or 6 of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) relevant to the professional
field.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1834
01. Transport officer :
(i) Should have obtained three years part time training course of National Technological Certificate
(Civil) in a Government recognized Technical Collage.
(ii) Should have completed Level 5 or 6 of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) relevant to the
professional field.
V ocational qualifications specified in (1) and (2) above should have been obtained in the field of mechanical
for the post of transport and in the field of civil for the Post of Building Supervisor and from a below
mentioned Institution.
(a) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the University of Moratuwa or Hardy Technical
Collage Ampara ; or
(b) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National Apprenticeship and Industrial Training
Authority ; or
(c) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Education and Higher Education ;
or
(d) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka ; or
(e) Successful completion of para. 01 of the Engineering Examination conducted by the Sri Lanka
Institute of Engineer ; or
(f) Any other qualifications recognized by the Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs as being equivalent in all respect to the Technological Qualifications mentioned above
after obtaining views of the institutions such as Ministry of Higher Education and the Institutions
by which the above certificates issued.
5.3 Physical fitness.– All candidates should be physically fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to carry out
duties in the Post.
Note.– It is compulsory that all applicants should complete necessary qualifications to the Post on or before the
closing date of application.
6. Furnishing false Information .– If a candidate is found not to have required qualification to sit this examination his/her
candidature can be cancelled before the examination of duration of the examination, or after the examination or at any time. If any of the
particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed by mat erial fact
he/she will be liable to dismissal from the public service.
7. Examination Procedure.– The examination will consists of written test consisting two subjects. This examination will be held
in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. The medium applied will not be allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum marks obtainable Minimum percentage of marks Time
required for a pass
01. Intelligence 100 50% 01 hour
02. Technological Paper 100 50% 02 hours
7.1 Syllabus :-
01. Intelligence.– Consists of questions to judge the rationality of thought analytical ability of thought and ability to
decide of the candidate.
02. Technological paper :
x Mathematics ;
x Algebra (In equation, Variables, Grades, Logarithm)
x Trigonometry (Solving of Equation, triangles)
x Statistics (Mean, Mode, Standard Deviation, Probability)

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1835
03. Physics :
Lights and Optics (Reflection and Refraction : Mirrors, Curved Surfaces, Prisms, Lenses and Formulas of
Optics, Microscope and Telescope)
04. Newtonian Mechanics (Scalars and Vectors, Newton's Law of Motion, Momentum).
 Miscellaneous Topics :
Introduction to Geography (shape of the Earth, Topography etc.)
The angle view of Solid Substances and Derivation of Projections.
Maps produced by the Survey Department.
8. Selection procedure :-
8.1 Number of candidates equal to the number to be filled, of the candidates who obtained the highest marks of a
written examination conduct by the Surveyor General, will be recruited firstly in the order of merits and secondary
on the options to the post indicate in the application.
8.2 An interview will be held to ascertain whether the qualifications have been fulfilled and no marks will be given for
the interview.
9. Recruitment.– The candidates selected to the Post of Trainee Grade will be appointed to Grade III in Technological Service
after completion of 2 years Technological Diploma successfully, at the institute of surveying and mapping at Diyathalawa.
10. Preparation and Submission of Application :
01. The application should be prepared by the applicant himself using both sides of a paper size 21x29 (A4) as per the
specimen application appearing at the end of this notice. No. 01-04 should be on page 01, No. 04.1 -10.1 on page
02, No. 10.2 -11.1 on page 03, No. 12- 14 on page 04 and No. 15 -15.2 should be on page 05 of the application.
02. Candidates who are already employed in Public or Provincial Public Services should forward their applications
through their Heads of Departments, candidates who are employed in public corporations and local government
bodies etc. Should forward their applications through their Heads of Institutions on or before the due date.
03. Applications should be in the language in which the candidates are eligible to sit the examination.
04. Applications which are not complying with the specimen form, examination fees have not been paid, of improper
filling, will be rejected without any notice. Candidates should bear consequences of improper filling of applications.
It would be useful to retain a photocopy of the application. It is responsibility of the candidate to find out whether
the completed application complies with the application specified in the notice. If not application will be rejected.
05. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. The complaints for any loss of applications in the post will not
be considered.
N. B.– Changing of examination centre applied to sit the examination will not be allowed subsequently.
10.1 On the presumption that only the candidates who have qualifications specified in Gazette notification have
applied, Surveyor General will allow all candidates who have paid specified examination fees and submitted
application on or before 31.10.2013 to sit the examination. Issuing of admission card shall not be deemed as the
applicant possesses qualifications to the post or to sit the examination. Candidature of the applicant will be
cancelled if it is found at the time of interview that the applicant does not possess the requirement for this post.
10.2 The envelope containing the application should be clearly marked "Recruitment to the Posts in technological
service" on the top left hand corner.
10.3 The signature of the applicant in the application should be certified by a principal of a government school/Justice
of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-law/Commissioned Officer in the Army/an officer in Police
Service hold a Gazette Post or an officer who hold a permanent post in public service in tertiary or senior level in
terms of the grading of Public Service Circular No. 06/2006.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1836
11. Examination Fee .– Examination fee is Rs. 800. This fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General Office in
No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any of District Survey Office or at Institute of Surveying and Mapping - Diyathalawa. Th e
receipt should be pasted in the relevant cage in the application form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with  applicant).
The fee is not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and cheques will not be accepted. Applications without cash receipts will
be rejected.
12. Submission of Application. – Completed application should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or
before 31st October, 2013.
Surveyor General,
Survey Department,
P. O. Box 506,
Colombo.
13. Appearing for the Examination.– Every candidate should hand over their admission card to the supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination. The candidate shoul d sit the
examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
14. Identity of candidate.– Candidates should prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for
each paper they sit. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose :
(i) The National Identity card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master General,
(iii) A valid passport.
15. Any matter not specified here will be determined by the Surveyor General. All applicants shall be bound to act in terms of
the general rules and regulations of examination specified in this Gazette Notification.
K. T
HA V ALINGAM,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
03rd September, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
POST IN SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE WHICH REMAIN V ACANT IN
THE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
For Office use only
01. Name of the Examination Centre applied to sit the examination :
Colombo
Diyatalawa
Anuradhapura
* Indicate  mark " 3" in the relevant cage of the Centre the
applicant intends to sit for the examination and indicate mark
"X" in other two cages.
02. Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - S,  Tamil - T,  English - E)
(Indicate the letter/code in given cage)
03. The orders of preference for which appointment are to be made :
No. 01 should be marked for the Post of highest preference and
the next numbers in serial order for next preferences.
Serial No. Designation Preference No.
1 Map Technological Officer
2 Remote Sensing Technician
3 Air photo lab Technician
4 Litho Printer
5 Building Controller
6 Transport Officer

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1837
04. Name with initials : (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :–––––––––––––.
In Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––––.
04.1 Names donated by initials (in legible letters) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
06. Date of birth :
Date: Month : Y ear :
07. Gender : (Male - M, Female - F)
08. Permanent Address (In legible letters) :
08.1 Administrative District to which address belongs :
District No.
Name of the District :
08.2 Date from which the applicant is resident in the
district ? :–––––––––––––.
09. Telephone No. :
Permanent :–––––––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––––.
10.1 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
1st attempt :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
* mention subjects, starting with the highest grade obtained.
10.2 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
2nd attempt :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
* mention subjects, starting with the highest grade obtained.
10.3 Details of G. C. E. Advanced Level Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––––.
Subject  Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
11. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any
offence ? :
Yes : No :
11.1 If yes, give details :–––––––––––.
12. Details of receipt which the examination fees paid  :
(i) Office at which the payment made :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid : –––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
13. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found
to be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the
appointment and if it is found after the appointment, I
would be liable to dismissal from the service.
(c) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of  ........ has
been pasted in relevant cage.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.09.2013
1838
(d) Further, I declare that I agree to comply with the ruels
and regulations laid down by the Surveyor General in
respect of the examination.
(e) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars
mention here.
––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
14. Certification of Signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ who is submitting the
appilcation is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature under the section 13, in my presence
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of attestor.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(By affixing the official stamp)
15. Recommendation of the Head of the Department. (Only for
the applicant who are in Public/Provincial Public Service) :
15.1 Acco rding to the personal file of the officer, during the
five years immediately prior to the closing date of
application :
Work, behavior, attendance satisfactory/unsatisfactory
All salary increments have been earned/have not been
earned
Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary action.
15.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can be/
cannot be released from the post he holds at present.
The application is recommended/not recommended.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Official Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
SCHEDULE 01
This Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to which
address belongs on No. 8.1 of the application.
Town/District Name Town/District No.
1. Colombo 01
2. Gampaha 02
3. Kalutara 03
4. Kandy 04
5. Matale 05
6. Nuwara Eliya 06
7. Galle 07
8. Matara 08
9. Hambanthota 09
10. Kurunegala 10
11. Puttalam 11
12. Anuradhapura 12
13. Polonnaruwa 13
14. Badulla 14
15. Monaragala 15
16. Rathnapura 16
17. Kegalle 17
18. Ampara 18
19. Batticaloa 19
20. Trincomalee 20
21. Jaffna 21
22. Vavuniya 22
09–941
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.