

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2761
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"092 – 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 05 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'10'05
No. 2,092  –  FRiday ,  octobER 05, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th october, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th october, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2759-b 81455- 5,403 (10/2018)
N. B.–   Part i:iii of the Gazette No. 2091 of 28.09.2018 was not published. 
Note.– (i) t ea Research board (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2018.
 (ii) companies (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2018
2760
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2018
2761
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
Link Language (English) Examination for Sri 
Lanka Teacher Educators' Service - 2018
IT is hereby notified that the Link Language (English) 
Examination will be conducted in colombo in January 2019 
for the Officers in the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service 
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service 
Minute No. 1925/37 dated 28th July, 2015.
02. Every officer of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' 
Service should obtain the proficiency in the English 
Language which is the Link Language within three (03) 
years from the date of Recruitment. In case an officer has 
obtained at least a credit pass or pass higher than a credit 
pass at the G. c. E. (ordinary Level) Examination or has 
been recruited to the Service in the English medium, he/she 
will be exempted from the requirement of passing this Link 
Language (English) Examination. The other officers should 
get through this Examination. 
03. the syllabus related to this examination and the other 
provisions have been published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No. 1925/37 dated 28th July 2015 of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. the syllabus and the other 
provisions have been mentioned here for the convenience of 
the candidates. 
04. Procedure of the examination.– Written Examination. 
Subject No. Subject Marks Duration (hours)
01 English 
Language
100 02
05. The Syllabus :
 5.1 english Grammar.– a suitable level of 
proficiency on the following forms of grammar 
in the spoken and the written langauge is 
expected from the candidate.
 – tense and Number
 – Sentences (Simple/compound/complex/
compound complex)
 – Relative clauses
 – Reported Speech
 – adjective and adverbs
 – determiners
 – Prepositions
 5.2 Writing skills.– the knowledge on the modern 
formats and styles of writing is tested in this 
area of study.
 – Essay writing
 – Summary writing skills
 – Report writing skills
 – Letter writing
 5.3 Reading skills.– Candidate's ability to 
comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and 
written interpretation is expected. 
 – Reading and understanding the specific and 
general meaning of a pritned text.
 – Reading and
  interpretation (Written)
06. a candidate should score at least 40% marks or marks 
higher than 40% to pass the subject.
07. the result sheet of all the candidates who sat the 
examination will be forwarded to the Secretary of the 
Ministry of Education by the commissioner General of 
Examinations. the commissioner General of Examinations 
will not issue result sheets personally to the candidates. 
08. application should be prepared using the both sides of 
an a4 sized paper and the Heads No. 01 to 04 should appear 
on the first page and the rest should appear in the second 
page and the information related to it should be included in 
their own hand writing. you should be cautious whether the 
application is in conformity with the specimen application 
mentioned in the Notification of the examination and you 
have completed the application correctly including all the 
information and whether the prescribed Examination fees 
have been paid and the details in that regard are included in 
the application and the receipt is affixed to the application 
prior to directing the application as the applications that 
are not in conformity with the specimen application and 
incomplete applications are rejected without notice. 
It is hereby notified that it would be beneficial to retain a 
photocopy of the application. it is informed that it is required 
to mention the title of the examination mentioned in the 
heading of the applications in English in Sinhala applications 
in addition to the Sinhala Language and in English in tamil 
applications in addition to the tamil Language. 
09. the commissioner General of Examinations will 
conduct the Examination and the candidates are adhered to 
the Rules and Regulations imposed by the commissioner 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2018
2762
General of Examinations. the Rules and Regulations for the 
Examination are mentioned below. 
10. Provision of False Information.– accurate 
information should be furnished carefully in filling the 
application. His/her candidature will be cancelled in any 
instance before the examination or during the examination 
or after the examination if it is revealed that any candidate 
is not qualified as per the rules and regulations of this 
examination. 
11. applications should be sent through registered post 
only through President/Zonal directors of Education to reach 
"the commissioner General of Examinations, organizations 
and Foreign Examinations branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, Post box 1503, colombo on or 
before 26.10.2018. the title of the examination should be 
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope. the 
applications that are sent after this date will be rejected. 
12. With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification 
have applied for the Examination, admissions shall be 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to the 
candidates, who have submitted duly perfected applications 
with the relevant receipt subsequent to paying the prescribed 
Examination fee along with the receipt issued after paying the 
Examination fee on or before the closing date of applications. 
A newspaper notification on the issuance of admissions 
shall be published by the department of Examinations 
immediately after issuing admissions to candidates. a 
candidate, who does not receive his/her admission two or 
three days after publishing the notification, should inform 
in that regard to the department of Examinations of Sri 
Lanka, as mentioned in the advertisement. Full name of 
the candidate, the address of the candidate and the National 
identity card number and the title of the examination 
applied for should be indicated in making such inquiries. if 
the candidate resides outside colombo, it will be effective to 
fax a request letter along with such details of the candidate 
to the Fax No. mentioned in the notification including a fax 
number of the candidate through which the candidate can 
obtain a copy of the admission quickly via fax. in inquiring 
so, it will be useful to get prepared to produce the copy of the 
application kept with the candidate and copy of the relevant 
receipt if the payment of examination fees is applicable and 
receipt issued for sending the application by registered post 
in order to substantiate any information requested by the 
department of Examinations. issuance of an admission to 
a candidate should not be deemed as an acceptance that he/
she has fulfilled qualifications for sitting the Examination. 
13. the complaints lodged by the candidates who fail to 
fulfill the requirements mentioned in the Para 12 above will 
not be entertained. 
14. a candidate should sit the examination at the 
examination hall prescribed for him/her under the specified 
index Number. Every candidate should hand over the 
admission, in which his/her signature has been attested 
to the Supervisor of the Examination on the first day of 
sitting the Examination. a candidate who does not submit 
his/her admission methodically is not permitted to sit the 
Examination. 
15. Submission of proof to substantiate their identity at 
the examination hall is the responsibility of the candidates.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons ; or
 (ii) Valid Passport ; or
 (iii) Valid driving License will only be accepted.
16. examination Fees :
 (a) the fees charged for this examination will 
not be refunded or transferred to any other 
examination under any circumstances,
 (b) Fees are not charged for the first sitting, 
 (c) an amount of Rs. 250 will be charged for each 
sitting subsequent to the first sitting. 
the receipt obtained by paying this examination fee to any 
Post Office of the island to be credited to the revenue head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations 
should be affixed firmly within the specified place of the 
application. it will be useful for the candidate to retain a 
photocopy of the receipt. Money orders or stamps will not 
be accepted for the examination fee. 
17. the candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in 
relation to the conduct of the Examination. it is informed 
that he/she will have to undergo any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations in case such 
rules or regulations are violated. 
18. in case of any inconsistency prevails among language 
texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such an 
instance. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2018
2763
19. the Secretary of Educat ion reserves the right of 
deciding any matter, which is not covered by this notification. 
 Sunil HettiaracHcHi,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
at the Ministry of Education, 
Pelawatte, isurupaya, 
on 20th September, 2018.
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN 
link language (engliSH) examination for Sri lanka 
teacHer educatorS' Service - 2018
01. (i) Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
  (ex. : HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 (ii) Name indicating the last name first and the initials 
at the end (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
  (Ex. : Gunawardhana, H. M. S. K.)
 (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  (i) Grade of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service 
:––––––––––.
 (ii) National College of Education/Teachers' College/ 
Teachers' Centre :––––––––––.
 (iii) Zonal office of Education :––––––––––.
  (Applicable only for the officers employed in 
Teachers' Colleges/Teachers' Centers)
03. address :
 (i) Private :––––––––––.
 (ii) Official :––––––––––.
 (iii) address to which the admission should be sent (in 
English block capitals) :––––––––––.
 (iv) Official Telephone Number :––––––––––.
 (v) Mobile telephone Number :––––––––––.
04.  (i) National identity card Number :
 (ii) date of birth :
  y ear :  Month :  day :
 (iii) Sex : 
    Male - 0
    Female - 1
    (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. Particulars of the receipt obtained after paying the 
examination fee :
 Number of the receipt :––––––––––.
 Post Office :––––––––––.
 date :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt here
06. i do hereby declare that information mentioned above 
is accurate. Further, i declare that i will be adhered to 
the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations pertaining to the conduct of 
the Examination and the issuance of results. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
07. commissioner General of Examinations, 
i do hereby certify that the applicant whose information 
stated above is an officer serving in my National College 
of Education/Teachers' College/Teachers' Centre. Further, 
i certify that the applicant is released from paying the 
examination fee/the applicant has accurately affixed the 
receipt obtained after paying the examination fees.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the President/Principal of the 
  Teachers' College/Manager of the Teachers' 
  centre/ Zonal director of Education. 
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Official Frnka)
(delete the words not applicable)
10–171

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2018
2764
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, mANAGEmENT AND LAW & ORDER
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Services - 2018
REVISION are made to, title of English Notification of amended Examination Notification published in the Gazette of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2089 dated 14th of September, 2018.
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN FoR REcRuitMENt to GRadE ii oF cLaSS 2 oF SRi LaNKa 
iNFoRMatioN aNd coMMuNicatioN tEcHNoLoGy SERVicES - 2018
Note.– the closing date will not be extended due to this amendment. 
 K. V . P. M. J. gamage, 
 director General of combined Services, 
 Ministry of Public administration, Management and Law & order.
Ministry of Public administration, Management and Law & order, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
02nd of october, 2018.
10–687

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2018
2765
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2018
2766
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2018
 OCTObER 05.10.2018 Friday — 21.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
  12.10.2018 Friday –– 28.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
  19.10.2018 Friday –– 05.10.2018 Friday 12 noon
  26.10.2018 Friday –– 12.10.2018 Friday 12 noon
 NOvEmbER 02.11.2018 Friday — 19.10.2018 Friday 12 noon
  09.11.2018 Friday –– 26.10.2018 Friday 12 noon
  16.11.2018 Friday –– 02.11.2018 Friday 12 noon
  23.11.2018 Friday –– 09.11.2018 Friday 12 noon
  30.11.2018 Friday –– 16.11.2018 Friday 12 noon
 DECEmbER 07.12.2018 Friday — 23.11.2018 Friday 12 noon
  14.12.2018 Friday –– 30.11.2018 Friday 12 noon
  21.12.2018 Friday –– 07.12.2018 Friday 12 noon
  28.12.2018 Friday –– 14.12.2018 Friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2018.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.