

<!-- page 1 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
1 A
1 A
wxl 1994$77 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'11'25
No. 1994/77 –  Friday, November,  25.  2016
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
¡ºø  —ïÊË
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
Northern Province, Provincial Council
Northern  Province  Child  Development  Center  Statute  No. 04  of  2016
NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province, Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Child Development
Center Statute No : 04 of  2016, on 22nd September 2016 and that the Hon. Governor, Northern Province has granted his Assent
to it on 21st November 2016.
K. THEIVENDRAM,
Secretary,
Council Secretariat,
Northern Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
A 9 Road,
Kaithady,
22
nd November, 2016.


<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
2 A
CHILD   DEVELOPMENT   CENTRE  STATUTE   OF   THE
NORTHERN   PROVINCE
Regulation of Sections
1. Short title and date of operation.
PART I
Registration of a Child Development Centre
2. Requirements to register a Child Development Centre.
3. Management and administration of Child Development Center.
4. Qualifications for registration.
5. Application for the provisional approval to establish a Child Development Centre.
6. Grant of provisional approval.
7. Establishment of  the Child Development Centre to be completed within the period granted.
8. Registration of a Child Development Centre.
9. Grounds for refusal of a registration.
10. Admission of Children to a Registered Child Development Centre and duties of Manager.
11. Renewal of Certificate of  Registration.
12. Minimum standards to be maintained by Registered Child Development Centre.
PART II
Inspectors and Visitors
13. Appointment of Inspectors.
14. Inspection and Supervision of Registered Child Development Centres.
15. Appointment of Visitors.
PART III
Closure of a Registered Child Development Centre, suspension or cancellation of Certificate of Registration
16. Procedures to be followed at the closure of a Registered Child Development Centre.
17. Suspension or cancellation of Certificate of Registration.
18. Issue of general and special directions by the Provincial Commissioner.
19. Order of cancellation.
20. Right to appeal.
21. Order to be made on appeal.
22. Transfer of Children from a Registered Child Development Centre.
23. Effect of a cancellation of a Certificate of Registration.
PART IV
Child Development Centre of the Northern Province
24. Child Development Centre of the Northern Province.
25. Duties of the Warden of a Child Development Centre of the Northern Province.

<!-- page 3 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
3 A
PART V
Receiving Home
26. Care of children less than five years of age.
27. Registration of a birth.
28. Submission of an examination report.
29. Placement of a child.
PART VI
Finance
30. Availability of resources.
31. Audit of accounts.
PART VII
Offences
32. Establishment or maintenance of a Child Development Centre in contravention of the Statute to be an offence.
33. Failure to provide information or making any false statement to be an offence.
34. Obstructing the Provincial Commissioner etc., to be an offence.
35. General penalty.
36. Offences committed by a body of persons.
37. Additional penalty where an offence is committed by a Manager etc.,.
PART VIII
Miscellaneous
38. Relief  payment by the Provincial Commissioner.
39. Regulations.
40. Submission of reports to the Provincial Commissioner.
41. Annual financial statement of a Registered Child Development Centre.
42. Registration of Children's Home.
43. Interpretation.
44. Savings.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
4 A
A STATUTE TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGISTRATION, SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION
OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTRES; THE PROTECTION OF THE RIG HTS OF CHILDREN
ACCOMMODATED IN SUCH CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTRES AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH  AND INCIDENTAL THERETO. THIS STATUTE IS INCONSISTENT
WITH THE  PROVISIONS  OF  THE  ORPHANGES  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER 142)
BE  it therefore enacted by  the Northern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as follows :-
1. This statute may be cited as the Northern Province Child Development Centre Statute, No. 04
of 2016 and shall come into force on such date as the Governor of the Northern Province may give his
assent thereto.
PART I
Registration of a Child Development Centre
2. On and after the coming into force of this Statue, a Child Development Centre for orphans or
deserted children between the ages of five to eighteen (hereinafter referred to as the “Children”) shall not
be established or maintained within the Northern Province, except upon being registered for that purpose
under the provisions of this Statute.
3. (1) The Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care services (hereinafter referred to
as the “Provincial Commissioner”) shall be charged with the responsibility of ensuring the efficient
management and administration of the Registered Child Development Centres.
 (2) The Provincial Commissioner shall exercise, discharge and perform the powers, functions
and duties as may be assigned to him under this statute.
 (3) The Provincial Commissioner may, subject to such conditions as he may think delegate to
an officer, such of his powers, functions and duties and such officer may exercise, discharge and perform
such powers, functions and duties and are assigned to him.
 (4) The Provincial Commissioner may, whenever he deems appropriate to do so exercise,
discharge and perform all or any of the powers, functions and duties delegated to an officer.
4. The qualifications required to be eligible for the registration of a Child Development Centre
under this Statute are as follows:-
  (a) the applicant shall be a voluntary organization registered under the provisions of the
V oluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 or an
institution incorporated by a Statute of the Northern Provincial Council having as one of the objects of
its constitution. The establishment and maintenance of a Child Development Centre;
 (b) the applicant shall have sufficient finance for the establishment and maintenance of a
Child Development Centre;
 (c) the applicant–
 (i) shall have proposed separate Boards of Management for males and females for the
administration of the proposed Child Development Centre, consisting of seven members including a
Chairman, a Vice Chairman, a Secretary, a Deputy Secretary, a Treasurer and a Manager;
Short title and date
of operation.
Requirements to
register a
Child Development
Centre.
Management and
administration of
Registered Child
Development
Centre.
Qualifications for
registration.

<!-- page 5 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
5 A
 (ii) Shall ensure that the Chairman, the Secretary, the Treasurer and the Manager of the
proposed Child Development Centre are citizens of Sri Lanka and residents within the boundaries of the
Northern Province at least three years continuously;
 (iii) Shall ensure that not less than three members of the Board of Management are
permanent residents of the Divisional Secretariat Division or the District, as the case may be, within
which the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established;
 (d) the applicant shall have the possession of the movable and immovable property of the
proposed Child Development Centre;
 (e) the applicant shall ensure that the place where the proposed Child Development Centre is
to be established is a safety environment;
 (f) the land in which the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established shall be in
the name of the voluntary organization or incorporated institution or, shall be received by such
organization or incorporated institution on lease for at least twenty five years;
 (g) members shall not be subject to any grounds for refusal specified in section 9; and
(h) the applicant shall satisfy the minimum standards required for the establishment of a Child
Development Centre as set out in Schedule I to this Statute.
5. (1) A voluntary organization or incorporated institution which desires to establish a Child
Development Centre within the Northern Province may where it satisfies the qualifications specified in
section 4 of this Statute, apply for a provisional approval  to establish such proposed Child Development
Centre, in the form specified in Schedule II to this Statute, which shall be signed by the person who is
assigned to function as the Manager of such proposed Child Development Centre.
 (2) On receipt of an application submitted for provisional approval under sub-section (1), the
Provincial Commissioner shall forthwith require a probation officer or any other officer having adeqate
experience as determined by the Provincial Commissioner, and who is authorized in that behalf to hold
such inquiry as may be necessary and submit a report on the same within such time as shall be specified
by the Provincial Commissioner.
 (3) The report referred to in sub-section (2) shall, among other matters state whether the
applicant satisfies all the qualifications specified in section 4 to become eligible to be-granted the provi-
sional approval.
6. (1) The  Provincial Commissioner shall, upon examining the contents of the report submitted
to him under sub-section (2) of section 5, and having –
 (a) determined the need to establish a Child Development Centre in the particular area
where such Child Development Centre is being proposed to be established, in view of the number of
Registered Child Development Centre being already maintained in that area;
 (b) taken into account any other information that he may have gathered on any visit made
personally to the premises where the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established,
arrive at a decision as to whether or not to grant provisional approval for the establishment of the Child
Development Centre concerned.
 (2) It shall be the duty of the applicant to furnish any information and details required by the
Provincial Commissioner relating to establishment of Child Development Centre.
Application for the
provisional
approval to
establish a Child
Development
Centre.
Grant of
provisional
approval.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
6 A
 (3) A decision on any application received by the Provincial Commissioner shall be made with
a period of three months from the date of receipt of such application and where the Provincial
Commissioner arrives at a decision to–
 (a) refuse the grant of provisional approval, he shall inform the applicant in writing of such
fact giving reasons for the refusal; or
 (b) grant a provisional approval, the applicant shall be issued with a Provisional Approval
Certificate in the form specified in Schedule III to this Statute.
 (4) A Provisional approval Certificate issued under paragraph (b) of sub-section (3) shall be
valid for a period of six months from the date of its issue, and be subject to such terms and conditions that
may be prescribed for that purpose by the Minister.
7. (1) The person to whom a Provisional Approval Certificate has been granted under Section 6
shall be required fourteen days prior to the expiry of period of validity of such Provisional Approval
Certificate, to establish the Child Development Centre to which it relates and submit a report of its
completion along with an application as may be determined by the Provincial Commissioner for the
registration of such Child Development Centre as a Registered Child Development Centre for the
Purpose of this Statute.
 (2) In the event the person to whom a Provisional Approval Certificate is issued is unable to
complete the establishment of the Child Development Centre within the period of six months referred to
in sub-section (1), such person may, on a written request made in that behalf to the Provincial
Commissioner, be granted an extension of a further period up to a maximum of another six months.
8. (1) Within one month of the receipt of the report and the application for registration referred
to in sub-section (1) of section 7, the Provincial Commissioner shall either by himself or through an officer
authorized in that behalf, make such inquiries and inspections as he considers necessary and
appropriate, in order to determine whether–
 (a) such Child Development Centre has the capacity to maintain in a manner that would
ensure the best interest of the children admitted therein since the issue of the Provisional Approval
Certificate; and
 (b) such Child Development Centre should therefore be declared as a Registered Child
Development Centre for the purpose of this Statute.
 (2) On the conclusion of the inquiry and inspection carried out under subsection (1), the
Provincial Commissioner shall–
 (a) register such Child Development Centre as a Registered Child Development Centre and
issue a Certificate of Registration in the form specified in Schedule IV to this Statute; or
 (b) refuse to register such Child Development Centre a Registered Child Development
Centre on any one or more grounds referred to in Section 9 and state his reasons for such refusal.
(3) A Certificate of Registration issued under paragraph (a) of sub-section (2) shall be valid for
a period of three y ears from the date of its issue and shall be subject to such terms and conditions as shall
be prescribed from time to time for that purpose by the Minister.
 (4) Where the Provincial Commissioner refuses to grant a Certificate of Registration under
paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) of this section, the Provisional Approval Certificate already issued to the
Establishment of
the Child
Development
Centre to be
completed within
the period granted.
Registration of a
Child Development
Centre.

<!-- page 7 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
7 A
person concerned, if it be in operation, shall stand cancelled, and the provisions of section 10 of this
Statute shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of any children who may have been admitted to
such Child Development Centre after the grant of the Provisional Approval Certificate.
9. An  application for the registration of a Child Development Centre as a Registered Child
Development Centre under subsection (1) of section 8, may be refused by the Provincial Commissioner,
on any one or more of the following grounds–
 (a) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant does not have or is
not able to obtain adequate resources to administer and maintain such Child Development Centre;
 (b) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant has failed to provide
or obtain adequate resources necessary to provide education or any other training, accommodation
facilities, guardianship, protection and maintenance to the  Children in the Child Development Centre;
 (c) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the Manager of the Child Develop-
ment Centre or any person working in the Child Development Centre in a voluntarily capacity or, any
officer or other employee of the Child Development Centre or any other person associated with the
administration of the Child Development Centre, is a person who has been convicted of an offence;
 (d) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the repute or character of any
person or persons employed in or working at the Child Development Centre is such that it renders him
unsuitable to be so employed or work in a voluntary capacity in the Child Development Centre or to be
associated in working with the children resident in such Child Development Centre;
(e) Where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the Child Development Centre
concerned would be unable to maintain the minimum standards for Registered Child Development Cen-
tres specified by the Minister under section 12; or
 (f) any other grounds as may be determined by the Minister from time to time, by Notice
Published in the Gazette. Such notice shall be placed before the Provincial council within three months.
 (g) In case of refusal by the Provincial Commissioner, the applicant shall have the right of
appeal to the Minister who shall appoint an appropriate committee consisting three members to go into
it and the decision of that committee shall be final.
10. (1) A child shall not be admitted to a Registered Child Development Centre
 (a) without the prior approval of the Provincial Commissioner; and
 (b) in violation of the age limit, gender or any categorization based on religious persua-
sions or any other factors as may have been determined by the Provincial Commissioner at the time of
registering such Child Development Centre as a Registered Child Development Centre.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), where a child is found to be facing a
situation which endangers or threatens to cause any harm or a threat to the child's life, health or safety,
such a child may be admitted to a Registered Child Development Centre without the prior approval of the
Provincial Commissioner.
(3) The Manager of the Registered Child Development Centre shall inform to the Probation
officer, Child Rights Promotion Officer or Officer of the National Child Protection Authority relating to the
admission of the child under subsection (2) within twenty four hours from such admission and shall
receive such approval of the Provincial Commissioner within two weeks from such admission.
Grounds for refusal
of a registration.
Admission of
children to a
Registered
Child Development
Centre and duties
of
Manager.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
8 A
(4) Where a child is found to be facing a situation which endangers or threatens to cause any
harm or a threat to the child's life, health or safety, the Manager of the Registered Child Development
Centre Shall take necessary action within twenty fours hours.
 (5) Any convicted child or any child affected by any abuse shall not be admitted to the
Registered Child Development Centre established under this Statute.
11. A Certificate of Registration issued may be renewed on application being made there for within
three months prior to the date of expiry of the period of validation of such certificate of Registration and
the provisions of section 4 of this Statute shall mutatis mutandis  apply to and in respect of such
application for renewal.
12. (1) The Minister may, by an Order Published in the Gazette specify the minimum standards
that should be maintained by a Registered Child Development Centre and it shall be duty of the Board of
Management of the Registered Child Development Centre to strictly comply with all standards so speci-
fied. Such notice shall be placed before the Council within three months.
  (2) In the case of emergency, a Registered Child Development Centre may be exempted by the
Provincial Commissioner from complying with the minimum standards specified in an Order published
under subsection (1) for a specified period of time.
PART II
Inspectors and Visitors
13. (1) The  Provincial Commissioner shall for the purposes of this Statute, appoint by name or
office any Public officer or any retired public officer, as an Inspector or Inspectors of Registered Child
Development Centres within the Northern Province.
 (2) An Inspector appointed under subsection (1) shall in the performance and discharge of his
duties and functions, act on the advice or instructions that may be issued by the Provincial Commis-
sioner and be subject to his authority.
14. (1) The Provincial Commissioner or an Inspector appointed under section 13, may at anytime
enter and inspect a Registered Child Development Centre and may for that purpose, carry out an exami-
nation on any matter as he may consider necessary, to ensure the best of interest of the children resident
in such Registered Child Development Centre, including an examination into the state and management
of the Registered Child Development Centre, the conditions prevailing therein, the manner in which the
children are being looked after and an examination of the records being maintained in respect of each
child resident in such Registered Child Development Centre.
 (2) Every Inspector shall submit a report to the Provincial Commissioner at the end of the
inspection under subsection (1).
15. (1) The Minister may appoint any one or more persons, by name or office, to be visitors of
every Registered Child Development Centre within the Northern Province.
 (2) A person appointed to be a visitor, may exercise in respect of each Registered Child
Development Centre that he visits, the powers conferred on an Inspector by section 14 of the Statute.
  (3) Every visitor shall submit a report to the Minister with a copy to the Provincial Commis-
sioner at the end of the inspection under subsection (1).
Renewal of
Certificate of
Registration.
Minimum
standards to be
maintained by
Registered Child
Development
Centre.
Appointment of
Inspectors.
Inspection and
supervision of
Registered  Child
Development
Centres.
Appointment of
Visitors.

<!-- page 9 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
9 A
PART III
Closure of a Registered Child Development Centre, suspension or
cancellation of Certificate of Registration
16. (1) Where a registered voluntary organization or institution incorporated by a Statute of the
Northern Province passes a resolution to close a Registered Child Development Centre, such voluntary
organization or institution shall forthwith inform to the Provincial Commissioner about such resolution.
(2) Every resolution under subsection (1) shall come into operation after lapse of period of six
months from the date of resolution.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Board of Management of such Registered Child Development
Centre  to continue to provide guardianship, protection and maintenance to any children resident therein
until such time as the children concerned are removed from such Registered Child Development Centre.
 (4) On the date of such resolution, all the movable and immovable property received or held
in the name of or by the account of such Registered Child Development Centre shall be forfeited to the
Provincial Commissioner.
17. (1) A Certificate of Registration issued under section 8 shall be suspended or cancelled if-
(a) it is found that the Certificate of Registration had been obtained by providing false,
misleading or inaccurate information;
(b) the manager or member of the Board of Management of the Registered Child Devel-
opment Centre has contravened any provisions of this Statute or any regulation, direction or Order made
under this Statute;
(c) the Registered Child Development Centre becomes danger to the safety of the Chil-
dren; or
(c) the Registered Child Development Centre has willfully fails to comply with the guide-
lines or standards.
 (2) Where a Certificate of Registration issued is suspended or cancelled as the case may be
under subsection (1), It shall be duty of the Provincial Commissioner to inform forthwith to the Manager
of such suspension or cancellation, by a written communication sent under registered post to the
address given by the Manager.
 (3) Where the Certificate of Registration is cancelled under subsection (1), all the movable and
immovable property received or held in the name of or by the account of such Registered Child Develop-
ment Centre on the date of cancellation shall be forfeited to the Provincial Commissioner.
18. (1) Where the Provincial Commissioner is of the opinion, that-
(a) the manner in which a Registered Child Development Centre is being administered is
not satisfactory;
(b) the accommodation facilities made available to the children in such Registered Child
Development Centre are not adequate or conducive to the welfare of the children resident therein;
(c) the manner in which the children are being cared for, has a negative effect of the well
being and protection of the children resident in such Registered Child Development Centre;
Procedures to be
followed at the
closure of a
Registered Child
Development
Centre.
Suspension or
cancellation of
Certificate of
Registration.
Issue of general
and special
directions by the
Provincial
commissioner.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
10 A
(d) the minimum standards specified by the Minister under section 12 of this Statute are
not being maintained; or
(e) any terms and conditions prescribed under subsection (3) of section 8 are not being
complied with,
the Provincial Commissioner shall have the authority to issue general or special directions to the Board
of Management of the Registered Child Development Centre, regarding measures to be adopted to
rectify the situation.
  (2) It shall be the duty of the Board of Management to which any directions are issued under
subsection (1), to comply with the same.
  (3) Any general or special directions to be issued under subsection (1), shall be-
(a) sent by registered post to the Chairman of the Board of Management or where appro-
priate forward to him through the Grama Niladhari of the area where the Registered Child Development
Centre is situated; or
(b) affixed to a conspicuous place in any building of the Registered Child Development
Centre.
  (4) Where the Board of Management of the Registered Child Development Centre to whom
any general or special directions are issued under subsection (1) fails to comply with such directions, the
Provincial Commissioner shall have the power to make an application to an appropriate Magistrate's
Court having jurisdiction, to ensure their due compliance.
19. (1) Where an application is made to a Magistrate's Court by the Provincial Commissioner
under subsection (4) of section 18, the Magistrate shall, on being satisfied after an inquiry held for that
purpose that the Board of Management has failed to comply with any general or special directions issued
by the Provincial Commissioner, issue notice to the members of the Board of Management, requiring
them, to appear before such Magistrate and show cause why the Certificate of Registration granted the
Registered  Child Development Centre concerned, should not be cancelled due to such failure.
  (2) On receipt of a notice issued by a Magistrate under subsection (1), if the members of the
Board of Management fails to appear before such Magistrate on the date specified in such notice or
having appeared fails to show sufficient cause as to why the Certificate of Registration should not be
cancelled, the Magistrate shall make an order cancelling the certificate of Registration of the Registered
Child Development Centre concerned.
  (3) Where an order is made under subsection (2) cancelling the Certificate of Registration of
a Registered Child Development Centre, the Provincial Commissioner or Inspector or any person who is
duly authorized in that behalf by the Provincial Commissioner shall have the power to enter into such
Registered Child Development Centre, and–
(a) remove the children resident in such Registered Child Development Centre to an-
other Registered Child Development Centre within the Northern Province;
(b) hand over the children to their parents; or
(c) remove the children to any other location as may be determined by the Provincial
Commissioner.
 (4) Where the Certificate of Registration is cancelled under subsection (2), all the movable and
immovable property received or held in the name of or by the accuont of such Registered Child Develop-
ment Centre on the date of cancellation shall be forfeited to the Provincial Commissioner.
Order of
cancellation.

<!-- page 11 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
11 A
20. (1) Any person who shall be dissatisfied with any order made by a Magistrate under subsec-
tion (2) of section 19 may prefer an appeal to the relevant High Court established by Article 154P of the
Constitution in like manner as if the order was a final order pronounced by Magistrate's Court in a criminal
case or matter, and sections 320 to 330 (both inclusive) and sections 357 and 358 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No., 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such appeal.
  (2) Any person dissatisfied with an order made by a High Court in the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction under this section, may prefer an appeal there from to the Supreme Court, on a Question of
law, with the leave of the High Court, and where such leave is refused, with the special leave of the
Supreme Court first had an obtained.
21. (1) A Provincial High Court shall have the power to make anyone of the following orders on an
appeal made to it under subsection (1) of Section 20–
(a) affirm, reject or vary the order made by the Magistrate's court;
(b) grant the Board of Management, Permission to show cause before the Magistrate; or
(C) make any other order as it may deem just in the circumstances of the case.
22. (1) The manager of a Registered Child Development Centre shall be required to comply with
any directions or instructions issued by the Provincial Commissioner with regard to the replacement of
any child resident in such Registered Child Development Centre and no child resident in such Registered
Child Development Centre shall be transferred to any other Registered Child Development Centre or be
removed from such Registered Child Development Centre in any manner, without the prior approval of
the Provincial Commissioner.
  (2) The manager of a Registered Child Development Centre shall hear the opinion of the child
relating to transfer of residence of child residing in such Registered Child Development Centre shall be
and the importance shall be given to the best interest of the child.
  (3) Where the Placement Committee of a Registered Child Development Centre as may be
prescribed by regulations decides to keep a child in the Registered  Child Development Centre for more
than three years, such decision shall not be carried out without obtaining the prior approval of the
Provincial Commissioner for the same.
23. (1) Any child shall not be admitted to any Registered Child Development Centre, the Certifi-
cate of Registration of which has been cancelled.
 (2) Any child who was resident in any Registered Child Development Centre, at the time of the
cancellation of its Certificate of Registration or where the order of cancellation was affirmed in appeal, as
the case may be, it shall be the duty of the Board of Management of such Registered Child Development
Centre to continue to provide guardianship, protection and maintenance to any child resident therein
notwithstanding such cancellation or the affirmation of the order, as the case maybe, until such time as
the chid concerned is removed from such Registered Child Development Centre.
PART IV
Child Development Centre of the Northern Province
24. (1) The Minister may establish a Child Development Centre of the Northern province to be
maintained by the Northern Provincial Council, for the reception, guardianship, protection and mainte-
nance of any children who may be removed from a Registered Child Development Centre,  due to the
Right to appeal.
Order to be made
on appeal.
Transfer of
children from a
Registered
Child Development
Centre.
Effect of a
cancellation of a
Certificate of
Registration.
Child Development
Centre of the
Northern Province.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
12 A
suspension or cancellation of its Certificate of Registration or failure to convert the Provisional Approval
Certificate to Certificate of Registration or refusal of renewal of the Certificate of Registration under this
Statute, until alternate arrangements are made.
(2) All expenses incurred in the establishment, administration and maintenance of a  Child
Development Centre of the Northern Province established under subsection (1) shall be paid out of the
Provincial Fund of the Northern Provincial Council.
(3) The Minister shall appoint by name or office, a person to be the Warden of a Child Devel-
opment Centre of the Northern Province established under this section and such number of other officers
and servants as may be required to administer such Child Development Centre of the Northern Province.
(4) The management of a Child Development Centre of the Northern Province established
under this section shall be entrusted to a Board of Management which shall consist of the Provincial
Commissioner who shall be its Chairman and not more than three other mambers to be appointed by the
Minister, and the person appointed as the Warden of such Child Development Centre of the Northern
Province shall be the Secretary of the Board.
25. (1) The Warden of a Child Development Centre of the Northern Province, shall perform the
duties of his office in compliance with any directives issued by the Board of Management of such Child
Development Centre of the Northern Province and in accordance with any advice or instructions that
may be issued by the Provincial commissioner from time to time.
 (2) The warden  shall take all necessary steps to ensure adequate guardianship, protection
and matintenance to the children admitted to the Child Development Centre of the Northern Province and
take all necessary action to transfer as soon as possible such children to a Registrered Child Develop-
ment Centre within the district from where such children had been transferred or to send such children
back to their parents, as the case may be.
(3) Where the Warden takes action to transfer any child to a Registered Child Development
Centre, he shall obtain the prior approval of the Provincial Commissioner for that purpose. The Provincial
cmmissioner may grant such approval upon the receipt of a report from the Probation Officer.
PART  V
Receiving Home
26. (1) An orphan or a deserted child who is less than five years of age, shall be accommodated,
placed and protected only in a Receiving Home which is administered by the Department of Probation
and Child Care Services of the Northern Province.
(2) Any person who becomes aware that a Child under five years of age has become an orphan
or has been deserted, may frothwith inform the Officer-charge of the nearest police station, any police
officer, an officer of the Department of Probation Child care Services of the Northern Province or the
Grama Niladhari of the area, as the case may be, of such fact.
(3) It shall be the duty of any officer who receives information under sub section (2), to take
necessary action to forthwith admit the child concerned to the nearest Government hospital for a medical
examination.
(4) Where on examination the child is found not to be in need of any medical treatment, it shall
be the duty of the  Director of the hospital or any officer duly authorized in that behalf with the consent
of the Provincial Commissioner, to admit the Child concerned to a Receiving Home situate within the
Northern Province.
Duties of the
Warden of a
Child Development
Centre of the
Northern Province.
Care of children
less than five years
of age.

<!-- page 13 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
13 A
27 (1) It shall be the duty of the Director of a hospital or any other officer duly authorized in that
behalf, to take all preliminary steps necessary to ensure the registration of the birth of a child born in such
hospital who is found to be an orphan or a deserted a child, prior to such child being released from the
hospital.
(2) Once such birth has been duly registered, it shall be the duty of the Director of the hospital
to inform the Provincial Commissioner forthwith and the Provincial Commissioner shall take all necessary
steps to admit such child to a Receiving Home situate within the Nortern Province.
28. In respect of every child who is admitted to a Receiving Home within the Northern Province, it
shall be the duty of the Probation Officer in charge of the unit or an officer authorized in that behalf by the
Provincial Commissioner, to submit to the Provincial Commissioner within thirty days of admitting such
child to the Receiving Home, a detailed report containing all information pertaining to such child.
29. It shall be the duty of the Provincial Commissioner to perform all duties connected with the
placement of a child admitted to a Receiving Home within the Northern Province and he may in the
performance of such duty, obtain the assistance of an appropriate Placement Committee.
PART VI
Finance
30. (1) The Provincial Commissioner shall use any funds made available, by the Government or
from the Provincial Fund by the Northern Provincial council under its annual estimates or any money or
funds obtained from any other financial resources or through donations, for carrying out the activities
and performing the duties entrusted to him by or under this Statute.
 (2) The Provincial Commissioner shall maintain proper books of accounts of all funds made
available to him for the performance his duties under this Statute.
 (3) (2) The provisions of section 23 (1) and 23 (2) of the provincial council Act  No. 42 of 1987
shall apply in this regard and the accounts of the Child Development Centre shall be audited annually by
the Auditor general or a Qualified auditor appointed by the Auditor general in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
31. The annual income and expenditure and the accounts of each registered Child Development
Centre shall be audited by a qualified auditor and be submitted annually to the Provincial commissioner.
PART VII
Offences
32. Any person or body of persons who–
(a) establishes a Child Development Centre without obtaining a Provisional Approval Certifi-
cate for the same or continue to operate as a Child Development Centre after the cancellation of a
Provisional approval Certificate;
(b) maintains or administers a Child Development Centre after the expiry of the validation
period of the Provisional Approval Certificate, without being registered as a registered Child Develop-
ment Centre under this Statute; or
(c) continues to operate as a Registered Child Development Centre after the cancelation of its
registration.
Registration of a
birth.
Submission of an
examination report.
Placement of a
child.
Availability of
resources.
Audit of accounts.
Establishment or
maintenance of a
Child Development
Centre in
contravention of
the Statute to be an
offence.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
14 A
Shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary Trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to a term imprisonment of
either description not exceeding a period of five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
33. (1) Any person who fails or refuses to submit any information or record required to be
submitted under this Statute shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable–
 (a) where such offence is being committed for the first time, to a fine not exceeding twenty
five thousand rupees; or
 (b) where such offence is being committed for the Second time, or thereafter, a to fine not
exceeding fifty thousnad rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period
of two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who knowingly submits false information or knowingly makes any false or
inaccurate statement in any record or application made under this Statute, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable–
 (a) where such offence is being committed for the first time, to a fine not exceeding twenty
five thousnad rupees; or
 (a) where such offence is being committed for the Second time, or thereafter, to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period
of two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
34. Any person who resists or obstructs the Provincial Commissioner, Probation Officer, an in-
spector, a visitor or any officer authorized by the Provincial Commissioner, in the performance of any
duty or in the discharge of any function or in the exercise of any power imposed on the Provincial
commissioner, Probation Officer, an inspector or visitor or any officer authorized by the Provincial
commissioner, by or under this Statute, shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and  shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liabel to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand
rupees or to a term imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period of two years or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
35. Any person who acts in contravention of any provisions of this Statute or any regulations,
directions or Order made there under, shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to a
term of imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period of six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
36. Where an offence under this Statute is committed by a body of persons, then, if that body of
persons is–
(a) the Board of Management which is administering a Child Development Centre or a Regis-
tered Child Development Centre, as the case may be, every member of such Board of Management;
(b) a body corporate, every director, manager, secretary or an officer of that body corporate; or
(c) a firm, every partner and every manager of that firm, shall be jointly and severally liable for
the commission of the  offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed without his consent or
concurrence and that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
Failure to provide
information or
making any false
statement to be an
offence.
Obstructions the
Provincial
Commissioner
etc., to be an
offence.
General penalty.
Offences committed
by a body of
persons.

<!-- page 15 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
15 A
37. Where an offence under this Statute is committed by the Manager, a member of the Board of
Management of a Registered Child Development Centre or any member of the staff of such a Registered
Child Development Centre, The Magistrate shall have the power, in addition to imposing the penalty
specified for that offence, to order for the cancellation of the registration granted to such  Child Develop-
ment Centre.
PART VIII
Miscellaneous
38. The Provincial Commissioner shall, on application made in that behalf by the Manager of a
Registered Child Development Centre pay in respect of each child resident in such Registered Child
Development Centre, a sum of money determined by the Minister as a relief, maintenance grant to be
used for the benefit of each child.
39. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect
Regulations to the provisions of this Statute.
 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minis-
ter may make regulations for all or any of the following matters-
 (a) all matters in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to be made under
this Statute;
 (b) information to be included in any report required to be submitted under this Statute;
 (c) books and registers to be kept and maintained by the Provincial Commissioner and
particulars to be entered therein;
 (d) procedure for inspection of Registered Child Development Centre;
 (e)  the circumstances in which children may be admitted to or discharged from a Regis-
tered Child Development Centre; and
 (h) any other matters that may become necessary in order to give effect to the provisions
of this Statute.
 (3) All regulations made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall be Placed
before the Northern Provincial Council within three months of such Gazetting and be approved by such
Northern Provincial Council.
 (4) Every regulation which is not approved by the Northern Provincial Council shall be
deemed to be rescinded from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done there under.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall be deemed to be rescinded, shall be
published in the Gazette.
40. (1) It shall be the duty of the Manager of a Registered Child Development Centre to submit a
report to the Provincial Commissioner once in every three months, in a form specified in Schedule V to
this Statute.
 (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the Provincial Commissioner or any
officer authorized in that behalf by the Provincial commissioner shall have the power to request the
Manager of a Registered Child Development Center by a notice issued in that behalf, to submit a report
on any particular matter relating to the administration of such Registered Child Development Centre or to
Additional penalty
where an offence is
committed by a
Manager etc.
Relief payment
by the
Provincial
commissioner.
Submission of
reports to the
Provincial
Commissioner.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
16 A
provide any information considered necessary, to ensure the best interest of the Children resident in
such Registered Child Development Centre and it shall be the duty of such Manager to submit the report
or to provide the information as the case may be, within the time stipulated in the notice issued.
41. (1) An annual financial statement in respect of each Registered Child development Centre
shall be prepared by a qualified auditor who has been appointed for that purpose at the Annual General
Meeting of the voluntary organization or incorporated institution and the financial statement so pre-
pared shall be adopted at an Annual General Meeting of the organization or incorporated institution.
 (2) The financial statement perpared under subsection (1), shall be forwarded to the Provincial
Commissioner by the Manager of the Registered Child Development  Centre concerned, on or before the
30
th of April of each year.
42. Notwithstanding the fact that any Children's Home which is established within the Northern
Province has been registered with the Social service Department of the Northern Province, if such Home
is a “Child Development Centre” within the meaning of this Statute, such Home shall be required to be
registered under this Statute.
43. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires:-
“Child Development Centre” means a Child Development  Centre being maintained fully
or partly out of voluntary funds providing accommodation facilities, protection
and undertaking the guardianship of orphans and deserted children;
“deserted” when applied to a legitimate child, means a child deserted by both parents or
deserted by one parent, the other being dead or incapable of acting as a parent
or a child both of whose parents are incapable of acting as parents, and when
applied to an illegitimate child means a child deserted by his or her mother or a
child whose mother is incapable of acting as a parent;
“Inspector” means a an Inspector of Registered Child Development Centre appointed by
the Provincial Commissioner under section 13;
“Manager” means the person responsible for the management of a Registered Child
Development Centre and in the case of a Child Development Centre that has not
been established, means the person proposed to be appointed as Manager after
its establishment;
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Probation and Child Care
Services of the Northern Province;
“orphan” when applied to a  legitimate child, means a child, both of whose parents are
dead or one of whose parents is dead, the other being incapable of acting as a
parent, and when applied to an illegitimate child, means a child whose mother is
dead;
“Probation Officer” means an officer appointed as a Probation Officer under section 17 of
the Probation of Offenders Ordinance (Chapter 24);
“Children Development Centre of the Northern Province” means a Children Development
Centre of the Northern Province established by the Minister under section 24 of
this Statute;
“Receiving Home” means Receiving Home which is being administered by the Provincial
Department of Probation and Child Care Services under section 26 of this Stat-
ute;
Annual financial
statement of a
Registered Child
Development
Centre.
Registration of
Children's Home.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 17 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
17 A
“Registered Children Development Centre” means a Children Development Centre which
is registered under Section 8 of this Statute; and
“Warden” means the person appointed by the Minister under Sub section (3) of section
25 of this Statute, to be in charge of a Child Development Centre of the Northern
Province.
44. (1)  Any orphanage which has been registered under the Orphanage Ordinance (Chapter 142)
and is being operated and maintained on the date of the coming into operation of this Statute shall,
notwithstanding the provisions contained in Section 2 of this Statute, but subject to the provisions of
Subsection (2), be permitted to continue to be operated and maintained as such from the date of the
coming into operation of this Statute, for a period of six months.
 (2) Prior to the expiry of the Period of six months referred to in Sub section (1), an orphanage
referred to in that Sub section shall be required to make an application under Section 8 of this Statute for
the registration of such orphanage as a Registered Children Development Centre.
 (3) Where an application is made for registration under subsection (2) of this Section, the
Provincial commissioner shall grant a Temporary Certificate of Registration in the from specified in
Schedule VI of this Statute which shall be valid for a period of six months and the Provincial commis-
sioner shall require, as may be appropriate, to comply, with the requirements specified in Sections 4 and
8 before the expiry of such Period, and thereafter make a decision to register such Orphanage as a
Children Development Centre under this Statute.
45. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and Sinhala versions of this Statute,
between the Tamil version shall prevail.
Savings
Tamil text to
prevail in the
case of
inconsistency.
SCHEDULE  I
[Section 4 (h)]
Minimum Standards for the Establishment of a Child Development Centre
1. The members of the Board of Management of the Child Development Centre shall submit the police report and
character references from public officers.
2. The members of the Board of Management of the Child Development Centre and the members of the staff shall
obtain approval to work with children from the Department of probation and child Care Services of the Northern Province.
3.  The majority of the members of the Board of Management of the female Child Development Centre shall be females
and female caregivers shall be appointed.
4. The staff shall not have been accused in criminal cases relating to adult or child abuse, whether convicted or not.
5. (i) The members of the Board of Management and the members of the staff should have passed two subjects in the
General Certificate of Education (Advance Level); should have completed training in relation to child development and child
psychology; and should have minimum 5 years' experience relating to childcare; and be aged between 30 to 60 years.
  (ii) The caregivers should have passed 6 subjects in the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) including
Mathematics and Tamil; should have minimum 2 years' experience relating to childcare; and be aged between 25 to 60 years.
(iii   Any volunteers should have passed 6 subjects in the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) including
Mathematics and Tamil; should have minimum 1 month experience relating to childcare; and be aged between 18 to 60 years.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
18 A
6.  Each child shall be placed with due regard for their religion, age, gender and mental status.
7. Children with special needs shall be given special care.
8. (1) The Child Development Centre shall provide services to only one age group of children stipulated below-
 (i) age 6 – 10 years; or
(ii) age 11 – 18 years.
 (2) Both male and female children could be accommodated together under group (i) and only either male or female
children should be accommodated at the Child Development Centre under group (ii).
9. A first aid box shall be maintained in each building where children are accommodated.
10. A library shall be maintained and the books appropriate for the children's age shall be kept there.
11. A television, radio, musical instruments, board games, art materials for drawing and painting shall be a available to
promote leisure activities among children.
12. Access to proper facilities shall be provided for children with physical or psychological disabilities.
13. Child Development Centre shall provide facilities within premises for the children to meet their parents, relatives and
friends.
14. A functioning fire extinguisher shall be available in each part of the building of Child Development Centre.
15. In a Child Development Centre, there shall be at least 1 staff member for every 5 children under age of 6 years and
at least 3 staff members for every 25 children over age of 6 years.
16. Children shall be  provided appropriate education or training to become employed when they leave the care of the
Child Development Centre.
17. Every child shall be provided to register with a medial Officer.
18. The Child Development Centre shall be near to the educational institution.
19. The building of the Child Development Centre shall be designed appropriately for children.
20. The building or the premises shall consist of bedrooms, toilet and bathrooms, seating area, study area, outdoor play
area, garden, dining room and kitchen. Those areas shall be made accessible to children with disabilities.
21. Each child shall be allocated indoor space (36 Square feet) and have his or her own bed; mosquito nets shall be
available for each bed; personal cupboard with a lock shall be available for each child; room shall have adequate lighting and
ventilation.
22. A number of toilet and bathroom at a ratio of 1 toilet and a bathroom for every 8 children shall be a vailable and
bathroom and toilet facilities shall be attached to the children's rooms.
23. Water tanks shall be available at the childcare institution to provide uninterrupted access to water supply.
24. Toilet and bathroom facilities shall be available separately for males and females.
25. Adequate number of chairs and tables shall be provided for children to continue their studies.

<!-- page 19 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
19 A
26. The study area shall be located separated from the common areas.
27. Sufficient number of plates, cups, spoons shall be available for children.
28. A high wall fence shall be available around the premises and a watchman shall be available for 24 hours.
29. There shall be sufficient transport facilities at the Child Development Centre for children.
30. When there is no electricity, a torch or lamps shall be available.
31. In the child Development Centre, there shall be a complaint box and shall be provided to make complaints anony-
mously.
SCHEDULE  II
[Section 6 (1)]
Application for Provisional Approval
1. Name of the voluntary organization or institution seeking approval:-
2. Registration Number given on being registered as a voluntary organization:-
3. Sex and maximum and minimum age of the children who are proposed to be admitted to the Child Development
Centre
4. Sources of the funding available for the maintenance of the proposed Child Development Centre:-
5. Total amount of the funds available for expenditure for the establishment of the proposed Child Development
Centre:-
6. Names and addresses of the Member of the Board of Management of the Proposed Child Development Centre:-
7. Whether the applicant has satisfied the minimum standards required as specified in Schedule 1 of this Statute:-
*Attached hereto is a plan of the building or buildings to be erected for the maintenance of the proposed Child Development
Centre and of the deed of the property in which the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established.
..........................................................................
Signature of the Manager of the Board of
Management of the proposed Child Development Centre.
Date:.....................................

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
20 A
SCHEDULE  III
[Section 6 (3) (b)]
Provisional Approval Certificate
I, ..........................................................., Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services for the Northern
Province, do hereby issue under Section. 6 (3) (b) of the Child Development Centre Statute of Northern
Province No. 04 of 2016, this Provisional Approval Certificate for the establishment of the Child Develop-
ment Centre to be called and known as ....................................., at ............................
Given on this ......................... day of ................20...........
.........................................................................
Signature of the
Provincial Commissioner of Probation and
Child care Services of the Northern Province.
Date:.....................................
SCHEDULE  IV
[Section 6 (2) (b)]
Certificate of  Registration
I, ............................, Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services of the Northern Province, do
hereby certify that the Child Development Centre established at ............................., and called and known
as ...................................., was registered by me as a Registered Child Development Centre under section 8
(2) (a) of the Child Development Centre Statute of Northern Province No. 04 of 2016.
Issued on this ................ day of ..................., 20......
.........................................................................
Signature of the Provincial Commissioner of
Probation and Child care Services of the
Northern Province.
(Seal)
Date:.....................................

<!-- page 21 -->

  IV ï¨å´Ì :( wwwww) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25
PART  IV :  S EC. (A)  —  GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  —  25.11.2016
21 A
SCHEDULE V
[Section 40 (1)]
Information Report under section 40 (1)
Name and location of the Registered Child Development Centre:-
Number, age and sex of the children accommodated at the Child Development Centre, as on the date
hereof:-
Number of cases of serious illness among the children in the Child Development Centre during the three
months immediately preceding the date hereof and the nature of the illness in each case:-
Nature and quantity of the normal diet of the children in the Child Development Centre and number of
meals given per day to each such child:-
Number of children (if any) who had left the Child Development Centre during the the months immedi-
ately preceding the date hereof and the cause for leaving:-
................................................................
Signature of the Manager of the Board
of Management of the Registered
Child Development Centre.
Date:.....................................
SCHEDULE VI
[Section 41 (3)]
Temporary Certificate of Registration
I, ............................, Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services of the Northern Province, do
hereby and issue this Temporary Certificate of Registration under Section 41 (3) of the Child
Development Centre Statute of Northern Province No. 04 of 2016, to the Orphanage established under the
Orphanages Ordinance (Chapter 142) at .................................... and called and known as ........................,
which shall be valid for a period of six months from .............................. this day of ..............20..............
.........................................................................
Signature of the Provincial Commissioner of
Probation and Child Care Services of the
Northern Province.
(Seal)
Date:.....................................
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,SRI LANKA
12–509