

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3716  
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 3708
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"148 – 2019 fkdjeïn¾ ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'11'01
No. 2,148 –  fRiday ,  NoVEmbER 01, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd November, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th November, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3705 - b 81574- 5,403 (11/2019)


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3706
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3707
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3708
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrars of births, Deaths and (General) marriages/Additional Registrar of (General),
marriages - Tamil medium
 
KaLUtaRa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrars of births, deaths and marriages/additional Registrar of, in the 
divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies as given in the following 
Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agent's Office) or Land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariats 
of the district. 
07. Duly filled applications should be posted to the address mention in the Schedule on or before 02nd December, 
2019 by Registered Post.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 30th September, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretary's 
Division
Post  and Division for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kalutara Walallawita Post of marriage Registrar of (General) in Pasdun 
Koralaya West division and birth and death of 
makalandawa division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kalutara
11–105

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3709
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
KaNdy  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
02nd december, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 14th october, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called 
Address to which Application 
should be sent
Kandy Poojapitiya
Post of additional marriage Registrar 
(Kandyan/General) of Harispattuwa division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kandy.
11–745

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3710
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages
 
NUWaRa ELiya  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
02nd december, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 14th october, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Application 
should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
thalawakele area in Nuwara Eliya 
district division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya.
10–744

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3711
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR / vOLuNTEER N AvA L  
fORCE
vacancies for Sailors (male) in the Civil Engineering 
Branch (Artificer) of Sri Lanka Naval Force
V ACANCIES exist  in the Civil Engineering (Artificer) 
branch of the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval force for 
recruit sailors.
2. applications are called from male candidates possessing 
the following qualifications. Candidates should essentially 
fulfill the following general conditions for the recruitment in 
the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval  force : 
 (a) Nationality   :- must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) age :- Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 33 years as at 30th 
November, 2019.
 (c) Height  :- must not be less than 5 feet and 5 
inches.
 (d) Weight :- must not be less than 47kg (105 
pounds)
 (e) chest :- must not be less than 32 inches 
 (f) colour Vision :- Std ii
 (g) Visual  acuity :- Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles and lenses)
 (h) civil Status :- married / Unmarried.
3. Education and Professional Qualifications :-
it is compulsory to passes Six (6) subjects in G. c. E. 
(o/L) examination including mathematics, Science, mother 
tongue and English Language in not more than two sittings 
and each of the following levels must have professional 
qualifications and professional experience and priority will 
be given to the candidates who have followed the G. c. E. 
(a/L) mathematics stream/Engineering technology stream. 
 
 (a) Professional Qualifications for Civil Engineering 
Artificer - Age 18-33 (Class III)
 (i) Successfully complete of National Certificate 
in technology (Nct) - civil ;
 or
 (ii) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
in technology (Nct) - QS ;
  or
 (iii) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
for industrial technicians (Ncit) - civil ;
  or
 (iv) Successfully completed of equivalent course 
with NVQ Level 5 standards certificate/
diploma course from approved institute by 
tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(tVEc) ; 
  and
 (v) 03 years work experience in recognized 
institute or Government department.
 (b) Professional Qualifications for Civil Engineering 
Artificer - Age 18-30 (Class IV) :
 (i) Successfully completed of National 
Certificate in Technology (NCT) - Civil ;
 or
 (ii) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
in technology (Nct) - QS ;
  or
 (iii) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
for industrial technicians (Ncit) - civil ;
  or
 (iv) Successfully completed of equivalent course 
with NVQ Level 5 standards certificate/
diploma course from approved institute by 
tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(tVEc) ; 
  and
 (v) 01 year work experience in recognized 
institute or Government department.
 (c) Professional Qualifications for Civil Engineering 
Artificer - Age 18-28 (Grade i) :
 (i) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
in technology (Nct) - civil ;
 or
 (ii) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
in technology (Nct) - QS ;
 or

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3712
 (iii) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
for industrial technicians (Ncit) - civil ;
  or
 (iv) Successfully completed of equivalent course 
with NVQ Level 5 standards certificate/
diploma course from approved institute by 
tertiary & V ocational Education commission 
(tVEc) ; 
  or
 (v) Successfully completed of National 
Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship 
(NcEd) 01 year full time or equivalent 
course with NVQ Level 4 standards from 
approved institute by tertiary & V ocational 
Education commission (tVEc) with 02 
years work experience in recognized institute 
or Government department.
 (d) Professional Qualifications for Civil Engineering 
Artificer - Age 18-26 (Grade II) :
 (i) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
in Engineering draughtsmanship (NcEd) 01 
year full time course ;
 or
 (ii) Successfully completed of equivalent course 
with NVQ Level 4 standards from approved 
institute by tertiary & V ocational Education 
commission (tVEc) ;
  or
 (iii) 01 year work experience in recognized 
institute or Government department.
 (e) Professional Qualifications for Civil Engineering 
Artificer - 18-24 (Grade III)
 (i) Successfully completed of National Certificate 
in Engineering draughtsmanship (NcEd) 01 
year full time course
  or
 (ii) Successfully completed of equivalent course 
with NVQ Level 4 standards from approved 
institute by tertiary & V ocational Education 
commission (tVEc).
 (f) Professional Qualifications for Apprentice Civil 
Engineering Artificer - Age 18-24 (Grade IV) - 
V olunteer
  Should have completed one year or more of above 
mentioned full time course in a Government 
technical college / completed Examination in 
december 2019 (Principal of technical college 
should certify that he is expected to sit for the 
examination and or sit for the final examination in 
2019). the training will be provided for 6 months 
from the date of recruitment and will be recruited 
for a basic service contract period of 5 years from 
the successful completion of the course.
3. Applications of candidates who have not fulfilled the 
requirements of para 2 will be rejected. On arrival for the first 
interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. 
candidates whose height, vision and weight are below the 
standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have 
no exceptional skills will not be reviewed. any candidate 
who may have a special skills or value to the service may at 
the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy be 
considered even though he may not have the requisite height 
provided.
4. Service Conditions.–
 (a) candidates will be initially enlisted as recruits 
and they are required to undergo basic training 
courses.
 (b) during and after the period of training the recruits 
shall be subject to the Naval Law.
 (c) all the recruits will be provided with uniforms and 
other equipment.
 (d) during the period of training the  recruits will be 
provided with accommodation and food by the Sri 
Lanka Navy.
 (e) during the training period, if a recruit desires to get 
his candidature dismissed, the recruit is required 
to pay back to the government of Sri Lanka all the 
expenses incurred so far by the government of Sri 
Lanka for his training. 
 (f) during the training period, due to a misconduct 
of the recruit or due to any other reason which 
the recruit is responsible for, if the responsible 
authorities determine that he is eligible for 
the service of the Navy, the recruit, on that 
occasion itself, should enter into a bond with 
the Navy commander as the representative of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of sri Lanka 
agreeing that he will pay back all costs incurred 
for him to the Sri Lanka Navy. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3713
 (g) Either for duties or training, all Naval Sailors are 
bound to be attached to any part of Sri Lanka or a 
foreign country.
5. Official Languages Requirements.– the selected 
candidates are required to obey all commands and 
legislation that have already been and likely to be enacted 
for implementation of the official languages policy that 
comes under the Official Languages Act, No. 33 of 1956.
6. Salaries and Allowances .- the payments from the 
date 01.01.2019 will be made according to the management 
Services circular No. 03/2016. accordingly,
 (a) basic Salary - Rs.26,488.00
 (b) cost of Living - Rs.7,800.00
 (c) Uniform cleaning - Rs.350.00
  allowance
 (d) Hardline allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (operational areas)   training
 (e) Hardline allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (Non-operational  training
  areas)
 (f) other allowances - Special allowance 
    Rs. 1,000  
   - Special additional
    allowance Rs. 2,400.00
 (g) adjustment - Rs. 684.00
  allowance 
  t otal Salary - Rs.38,722.00
Note.– Sailor's basic salary by 01.01.2020 will be                                                   
Rs. 29,540.00 and he will be entitled to the 
following increments.
 01.01.2016 - 176 x 5 - 210x19
 01.01.2020 - 300 x 5 - 370 x19
 (h) three sets of Railway warrants per year will 
be granted (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, 
children and dependents). 
 (j) an additional set of Railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for the sailors living in 
the camp to travel from the Sailors mess to their 
Hometown will be granted once a month.
 (k) free medical facilities will be provided (as 
applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and 
dependents).
 (l) married sailors who are not residing in government 
quarters will be entitled to a house rent allowance 
from Rs. 2,400.00 to Rs. 6,600.00.
 (m) Quarters will be provided to the married sailors 
based on the availability of vacancies in the 
quarters reserved for married sailors. 
7. Instructions to Applicants.–
 (a) Duly filled application by the candidate himself 
with clear handwritings should be submitted 
as per the specimen application to SENIOR 
STAff OffICER (RECRuITING), 
NAvy hEADQuARTERS, P. O. bOx 593, 
COLOmbO - 01 by  registered post before 12.00 
noon of 30th November 2019. applications that 
are not sent by registered post will be rejected. 
"Recruitment of Civil Engineer Artificer Sailors" 
should be indicated on the top left corner of the 
envelope. Late applications and unqualified 
applications will not be entertained. for further 
information, please contact 011-7195162 or visit 
www.navy.lk.
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/boards/civil Establishments should 
forward their applications through their                    
Heads of department/corporations/boards/civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to 
the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the originals 
of the following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
 (2) Certificates in support of the educational 
qualifications required for the branch applied 
for;
 (3) School leaving certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladhari Certificate (Taken within six 
months to closing date);
 (5) Certificates of trade / technical training and / or 
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized 
institution;

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3714
 (6) Three recent certificates of character. One of 
these should be from the Principal of the last 
school attended and the other from a responsible 
person who has known the applicant for more 
than two years or from the present employer (if 
employed);   
 (7) Certificates in support of sports activities.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f) the Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for loss 
of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form. 
8.  any Statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
9. Selection Interviews etc.–
 (a) Candidates who fulfil the above conditions 
required to undergo the preliminary medical 
test prescribed by the Sri Lanka Navy. only 
the candidates who pass the medical test should 
undergo the following physical Endurance 
test. the candidates who pass the said physical 
Endurance test shall have to be appeared at an 
interview before a Selecting board. 
 (b) Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical 
Endurance test :
exercise Time 
(Minutes/
Seconds)
Rounds
1600m run
Push up
Sit up
arm bending
07 minutes and 
30 seconds
02 minutes
02 minutes
02 minutes
-
20 or more
15 or more
07 or more
 (c) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date 
of such interviews. travelling or other expenses 
will not be paid in this respect. 
 (d) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he is to produce his National 
identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons. 
 (e) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final 
interviews will be required to present themselves 
before a Sri Lanka Navy medical board.
 (f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
 (g) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
Note : this Gazette notification will be published 
in the three languages i. e. Sinhala, tamil and 
English. in case of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 KKVPH 
de SilVa,
 WWV & bar, RWP, RSP, VSV , USP, ndu.
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters,
P.o. box 593,
colombo 01.
aPPLicatioN foR PoSt of REcRUit aRtificER 
(ciViL ENGiNEERiNG) iN tHE SRi LaNKa NaVy
01. Nationality :––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if registration, quote number and date 
of certificate)
02. Stream applied (in priority order) :––––––––––.
03. full Name (as per the National identity card) :––––––.
04. National identity card Number :––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :––––––––––.
06. Postal address :––––––––––.
07. date of birth :––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3715
08. age :
 y ears :––––––––. months :–––––––.days:––––––––. 
(as at 30th November 2019):
09. Height :––––––––––, (cm) 
 chest :–––––––––,(cm) Weight :––––––––––, (kg)
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––––.
11.  district :––––––––––.
12. Electorate :––––––––––.
13. G.S. division :––––––––––.
14. telephone Number :––––––––––.
15. civil Status :––––––––––.
16. Gender :––––––––––.
17. Schools attended :––––––––––.
18. Particulars of School or university attended :
Name of 
School/ 
University
Type of 
examination
Year of 
examination
Subject 
passed 
(Including
 Grading)
ordinary
 Level:   
advanced
  Level:
    
other :
19.  Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university (if applicable) :
Name and 
address of 
employer
Nature of 
employment
Period of Service
From To
20. Particulars of Parents:-
Full Name Place of 
Birth
Occupation Present 
Address
father
mother
21.  Any Special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
22.  details of current achievements in sports (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ 
years etc. and standards/ levels achieved) :–––––––––.
23. other achievements of note at School/ University or at 
outside organizations (Give details with dates/years 
etc.) :––––––––––.
24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or boy Scout organization :–––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or 
any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications :––––––––––.
26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :––––––––––.
27. if employed earlier in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/boa rd/corporation (including the 
central bank, National bank, Universities, Joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal  Address
29. declaration to be signed by the applicant :
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for the Artificer Branch 
in the Sri Lanka Navy, published in the Gazette of the 
Government of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
11–829                         

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3716
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
Department of Examinations - Sri Lanka
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-
Qur'an Schools on Islamic Studies - 2017 (2020) 
(Equivalent to Daham Pasal Final Certificate 
Examination)
1. Rules and Regulations.– the above Examination will be 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
during January 2020. Subjects and the syllabus for the 
examination are given in annexure i. 
2. Centres for examination.– Examination centres will be 
set up in towns indicated in Annexure II of this notification. 
Centres in any town will be cancelled if sufficient number 
of candidates has not requested that town. in case of such 
cancellation of any town the candidates will be transferred 
to centres set up in the nearest town. 
3. Language Medium.– this examination will be 
conducted in tamil, Sinhala and English medium. 
candidate should appear for all the subjects in one and the 
same medium.
4. eligibility.– Every applicant should have fulfilled at 
least one of the following requirements. 
 4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 in an ahadhiya 
School registered with the department of muslim 
Religius and cultural affairs ;
or
 4.2 Should be a student who has completed the senior 
grade al-Quaran madrasa Syllabus approved by 
the department of muslim Religious and cultural 
affairs ;
or
 4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects of 
islam or arabic in the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
conducted by the department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka. 
Note :
 (i) applications for this examination should be 
certified by the Principal of the Ahadhiya School 
or by the Principal of the ai-Qur'an madrasa 
or by the Principal of School to the effect that 
the candidate has fulfilled the requirements 
mentioned under paragraph 4 above. 
 (ii) an applicant can submit application for this 
examination only thorugh the Principal of an 
ahadhiya School, or the Principal of a Senior 
ai-Qur'an madrasa or School. 
5. in the event a registered ahadhiya School, Senior 
Qur'an madrasa or a School does not receive the application 
forms and instructions by post on time of the Principal 
concerned should contact the -
commissioner General of Examinations,
(organization and foreign Examinations branch),
department of Examinations,
P. o. box 1503,
colombo.
on or before 22nd of November, 2019.
 5.1 applications should be prepared in duplicate. the 
original should be forwarded to the department 
of Examinations while the duplicate should be 
kept filed in the relevant institution. 
 5.2 the closing date of applications will be 02nd of 
december, 2019.
 5.3 applications should be clearly and accurately 
filled in. Inaccurately or illegibly filled 
applications and those that are received after the 
closing date will be rejected.
 5.4 duly perfected applications should be sent under 
registered cover to the -
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  (organization and foreign Examinations 
branch),
  department of Examinations, 
  P. o. box 1503,
  colombo.
 5.5 applications will not be acknowledged.
 5.6 the name of the Examination "ahadiya/al 
Quran Madrasa final Certificate Exam - 2017 
(2020)" and the chosen town for the exam should 
be clearly written on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope enclosing the application. 
 5.7 No certificate should be annexed to the 
application. the Principals of the institutions 
should certify to the effect that the applicant 
holds the stipulated qualifications. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3717
6.  Mode of payment :
 6.1 the Examination fee for all four subjects is                  
Rs. 200 and the fee for one repeat subject is  Rs. 50. 
No Examination fee will be charged for those who 
sit for the examination for the first time. 
 6.2 the amount which is equal to the total 
examination fee, should be paid at any post office 
and the receipt obtained should be firmly attached 
to the application. (Keeping a photocopy of the 
receipt will be useful).
7. Admission Cards.- commissioner General of  
Examinations shall issue the admission cards through 
the relevant Heads of the institutions. they will handover 
admission cards to the candidates.
7.1 in the event a candidate fails to produce his/ her 
Admission Card to the supervisor on the first 
instance of sitting the examination or attempting 
to sit the Examination at a centre other than the 
one allocated to him/ her by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, his/ her candidature 
can be cancelled.
7.2 the specimen signature of the candidate should 
be attested by the head of the relevant institution 
or by a staff grade officer in permanent 
Government service, or by an islamic Priest of 
mosque.
7.3 if admission card is not received by at least 7 
days before the date of commencement of the 
examination the head of the institution concerned 
should notify the commissioner General of 
Examinations accordingly. in all such instances, 
information should be provided as indicated 
below.
(a) Name of Examination,
(b) Name of ahadhiya School/ madrasa/School, 
and the computer number provided to the 
School,
(c) Name of candidate in full and address,
(d) the town which is applied for to the 
examination,
(e) Post Office from which the application was 
posted,
(f) Registration number and date.
8. Personnel Identification.– Every applicant should 
prove his/ her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
on all instances he/ she appears for the examination by 
producing acceptable identity documents.
 8.1 National identity card.
 8.2 Valid Passport.
 8.3 Postal identity card.
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation of 
the Result : 
9.1 this examination consists of four papers, a 
candidate who passes in all four papers in one 
and the same sitting will be considered to have 
passed the Examination.
9.2 However, if a candidate gets passed in 3 subjects 
and fails to get through in the fourth subject in 
one and the same sitting he/ she will be allowed 
referral.
Such a candidate should get through the referred subject 
within the subsequent two examinations in order to be 
considered to have passed in this certificate examination. 
(this will be effective from 2011 Examination)
Referred candidate should apply and sit only for the 
referred subject.
9.3 Each of the four question papers carries 100 
marks and grades will be awarded as shown 
below.
Range of Marks Grade Symbol
0   - 34 fail f
35 - 54 ordinary Pass S
55 - 69 credit Pass c
70 - 100 distinction Pass d
 9.4 Release of the Results : 
  details of examination results will be posted to the 
relevant Heads of institutions.
10. Certificates.– action will be taken to issue a 
Certificate to every candidate passing the examination.
11. Re - scrutiny of answer - scripts.– opportunity will be 
provided for the re - scrutiny of answer - scripts if requested 
within 30 days from the date of issue of examination results. 
Such request should be made through the respective Heads 
of institutions, using the specimen form issued by this 
Department for this purpose. A specified fee must be paid.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3718
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any 
alteration is made to the examination results. applicants 
or their representatives will not be granted permission to 
examine the answer scripts for any reason what so ever.
12. all applicants are bound to act in accordance with the 
above conditions. decision of the commissioner General 
of Examinations on any matter that is not dealt with in this 
notification will be the final.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification the 
Sinhala text shall private.
 B. SaNath Pujitha,
 commissioner General of Examinations.
department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
battaramulla,
23rd october, 2019.
Annexure 1
Subjects and the prescribed Syllabus for the examination.
there will be four question papers, of three hour duration 
each. Structure of the question papers and marks allocation 
for the questions will be according to the Gazette notification 
published on Gazette No. 1358 of 10th
 September 2004.
fiRSt PaPER
1. Aqeedha, Sharee' ah (Principles and Fundamentals of 
Islam) and Arabic language
  1.1 aqeedha - General understandings (al iiahiyath, 
annubuwath, arroohaniyyath and assam’ iyyath) 
  1.2 Sections of aqeedha
  aqeeda of ahlussunnah Wal Jama'ath
  few other aqeeda sections such as : Jabariya, 
Kadariyya, murjiya, mu’ tazila and Shee’ ah
  1.3 t awheedh and Shirk
  iman and Kufr
  Riddath, Nifak
  History of revelation and compilation of the 
Qur’an
  Use of al - Qur’an as a source of Law
	  Sunna and history of its collection
  Utilization of Sunna as source of Law
	  History of Hadees and the contribution of 
muhaddis
  details relating to ijthihad
  ijma as a secondary source
  Kiyas as a secondary source
  History of fikhu and its imams
  1.4 arabic Language
  Writing with proper shapes of alphabets
  Writing of small Sentences
  Writing of arabic words having relation to the 
subject of  islam
  Writing of specific Qur ’an suras, verses and 
Hathees
SEcoNd PaPER
2. Al - Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
  2.1 details Relating to ibadath
    Kinds of  ibathath
    thaharath
  2.2 Najees and its categories : 
  methods of cleaning Najees
  Water and its categories
  Wulu, thayammam and - Procedures existing 
relating to bathing
  2.3 Zakath :
   Significance
  Rules and Regulations
 	collection and distribution
  minimizing poverty through Zakath and 
distribution of Wealth
  2.4 assawm (fasting)
    Significance
    Rules and Regulations and Usefulness
  2.5 Hajj :
    Significance
    Rules and Regulations
    Usefulness
  2.6 Hajj - method of  Performance
    farlu - Wajibu, Sunnath
    Hajj performed in addition to farlu Hajj

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3719
  2.7 attention and procedures in islam relating to food, 
dressing and dwellings.
  2.8 Understanding of Jihadh
  2.9 Kurbani and methods of slaughter
  2.10 oaths and V ows
  2.11 details relating to muamalath :
  dignity of earning
  main transaction (t rading)
  other transactions ( eg. borrowing, Rent)
  Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Public Property, 
testamentary Property, inhertited Property)
 2.12 Position of man and woman in islam :
    marriage Laws in islam and their uses
    family life in islam 
    Husband and Wife
    Rights and duties of parents and children
    talaq and idhdha
 2.13 Jinayath :
    Hudood, Kisas and ta’ zeer
tHiRd PaPER
3. Seera and Tarigh
  3.1 Socio - Religious position in arabian Society in the 
period before islam.
   3.1.1 Prophet mohamed (Sal) :
   Life before the Nubuwwath
  * family Lineage
  * y outh hood
  * Noble characteristies
  * marriage
	  Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
  * Nubuwwath
  * Propaganda of  islam and its outcomes
  * Hijrath
 	madina Life
  * Socio - Political activities
  * defensive wars and Peace agreements
  * completion of  islam
  Position of Sahabas and their contribution 
towards islam 
  History and Political contribution of 
Kulafa Urrashidoon
  Period of rule by Umaiya and abbasiya
  History of baitul mukaddas
  History and contributions of Sri Lankan 
muslims
  Contribution of Muslims to Scientific 
Knowledge
   History relating to the following 
personalities
  * imam buhari (Rah)
  * Imam Shafi (Rah)
  * imam Gassali (Rah)
  * imam abdul cader Jeelani (Rah)
  * imam Saduli (Rah)
foURtH PaPER
4. aklaq (islamic Values)
  4.1 View point of islam on aklaq
   	Understanding aqhlaq
   	Relationship between iman and aqhlaq
   	Relationship between aqhlaq and ibadath
   	Purity of mind (ikhlas)
  4.2 t aqwa
   	Wara’ u and Suhud
   	murakaba, muhasafa
   	Shawq
  4.3 charity
  dedication
  Gratitude
  Patience, tolerance, accommodating, pardoning
  Politeness
  appreciation of time
  Safeguarding organs in the body : mouth, eye, 
ear and sex organs
  Respecting others
  Justice and honesty
  important moral values visible among youth
  Harmonious living with people of other faiths
  4.4 islamic Jurisprudence

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3720
Annexure II
Name of towns and their town Numbers where 
Examination centres will be Established. 
Town Town 
No.
District 
No.
Colombo District
colombo (central)
bambalapitiya
01
02
01
Gampaha District
thihariya
mabola
malwana
Negombo
Kal-Eliya
03
04
05
06
07
02
kalutara District
Panadura
Kalutara
aluthgama
08
09
10
03
Galle District
Galle 11
04
matara District
Weligama
matara
12
13
05
hambantota District
Hambantota 14
06
kegalle District
mawanella
Warakapola
Kannattota
15
16
17
07
kurunegala District
Kuliyapitiya
Kurunegala
melsiripura
Polgahawela
Kekunagolla
18
19
20
21
22
08
Puttalam District
Nuraichcholai
Puttalam 
chilaw
23
24
25
09
Anuradhapura District
anuradhapura
Kekirawa
Galenbindunuwewa
26
27
28
10
Polonnaruwa District
Kaduruwela 29
11
Town Town 
No.
District 
No.
matale District
matale 30
12
kandy District
Kandy
Nawalapitiya
deltota
Gelioya
31
32
33
34
13
Nuwara Eliya District
Nuwara Eliya 35
14
Ratnapura District
Eheliyagoda
balangoda
36
37
15
badulla District
badulla
Welimada
38
39
16
monaragala District
bibila 40
17
Ampara District
akkaraipattu
Pottuvil
Kalmunai
Sammanthurai
irakkamam
Nintavur
oluvil
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
18
batticaloa District
Kattankudy
Eravur
Valachchenai
48
49
50
19
Trincomalee District
mutur
Kinniya
trincomalee
51
52
53
20
vavuniya District
Vavuniya 54
21
mannar District
mannar 55
22
mullaitivue District
mullaitivu 56
23
kilinochchi District
Kilinochchi 57
24
Jaffna District
Jaffna 58
25
11–759

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3721
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'11'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.11.2019
3722
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 NOvEmbER 01.11.2019 friday — 18.10.2019 friday 12 noon
  08.11.2019 friday –– 25.10.2019 friday 12 noon
  15.11.2019 friday –– 01.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  22.11.2019 friday –– 08.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  29.11.2019 friday –– 15.11.2019 friday 12 noon
 DECEmbER 06.12.2019 friday — 22.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  13.12.2019 friday –– 29.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  20.12.2019 friday –– 06.12.2019 friday 12 noon
  27.12.2019 friday –– 13.12.2019 friday 12 noon
2020
 JANuARy 03.01.2020 friday — 20.12.2019 friday 12 noon
  09.01.2020 thursday –– 27.12.2019 friday 12 noon
  17.01.2020 friday –– 03.01.2020 friday 12 noon
  24.01.2020 friday –– 09.01.2020 thursday 12 noon
  31.01.2020 friday –– 17.01.2020 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.