

<!-- page 1 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notiﬁ cations
CENTRAL  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
1A  PG  4265— 12  ( 10/2018)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
wxl 2091$51 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 04 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'10'04
No. 2091/51 -  THURSDAY ,  OCTOBER  04,  2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
Irrigation Statute of the Central Provincial Council No.05 of 2017
I, M. Rameshwaran, the Minister of Agriculture,Minor Irrigations,Animal Production & Development, Agrarian Develop-
ment,Inland Fisheries, Environmental Affairs, Hindu Cultural and Estate Infrastructure Facilities, hereby announce that the 
Irrigation Statute of the Central Provincial Council No.05 of 2017 adopted on 14.08.2018 by the Central Provincial Council, 
has been approved by the Hon. Governor of Central Province on 03.10.2018.
M. R
AMESHWARAN,
Minister of Agriculture,Minor Irrigations,Animal Production & 
Development, Agrarian Development,Inland Fisheries, 
Environmental Affairs, Hindu Cultural and 
Estate Infrastructure Facilities.
On  03rd of  October, 2018
At the Central Provincial Ministry of Agriculture,Minor Irrigations,
Animal Production & Development, Agrarian Development,
Inland Fisheries, Environmental Affairs, 
Hindu Cultural and Estate Infrastructure Facilities,
Gatambe

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
IRRIGATION  STATUTE OF THE CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL NO. 5 OF 2017
A statute to improve agricultural and related products in order for the betterment of farmer community 
of the Central Province by allocating provisions for planning, designing, implementing, supervision and 
maintenance of all irrigation works in the Central Province other than irrigation schemes relating to rivers 
running through more than one province or interprovincial irrigation and land development schemes, for 
restoration and maintenance of minor irrigation works, for establishment of the Department of Irrigation of 
Central Province, for establishment of Irrigation Management and Development Committees and Regional 
Irrigation Management Authorities and for the operation and discharge of their powers and functions, and 
for matters connected therewith or consequential thereto
BE it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
as follows:- 
1. This Statute may be cited as the Central Provincial Irrigation Statute No. 5 of 2017 of the 
Central Provincial Council and shall come into force from the date of receipt of assent of the 
Governor of the Central Province.
 
P
ART I
Establishment of the Central Provincial Department of Irrigation
2. There shall be established the Central Provincial Department of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Department”) for the purpose of giving effect to provisions of this Statute.
 3 (1) There shall be appointed a Central Provincial Director of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Provincial Director”) for the operation and discharge of functions and powers of this 
Department. That person shall be the Head of the Department, and shall be appointed by the 
Governor of Central Province in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of Demo-
cratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and the Provincial Councils Act No.42 of 1987.
     (2)  A Class I Of ﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service shall be appointed as the Provincial 
Director.
     (3)  Provincial Director shall implement the provisions of the Statute under the supervision of 
Secretary in charge of the subject of provincial irrigation.
    4. There shall be appointed irrigation engineers, and the staff in accordance with the Provincial 
Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as may be required for the purpose of assisting the Provincial 
Director to exercise powers and functions of this Statute.
    
     5.  Functions and powers of the Provincial Director may be conferred to the of ﬁ cers who are             
appointed under Section 4 above.
     6. The Minister may establish District of ﬁ ces for the Districts of Kandy, Matale and Nuwara Eliya, 
and may establish Regional Ofﬁ ces with the recommendation of the Secretary to the Ministry 
as may be required. 
Short title and 
date of enforce-
ment
Establishment of 
Provincial Depart-
ment of Irrigation
Appointment of 
other ofﬁ cers 
of the  
Delegation of 
powers
Provincial
 Director of 
Irrigation
Establishment  
of District or 
Regional Ofﬁ ces 

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
PART II
Functions and Powers of the Department
  7.          Functions and Powers of the Department shall be as follows:
 
 (1) To plan, design, implement, monitor and maintain irrigation works of the  Province.
 (2)  To restore and maintain minor irrigations,
 (3) To develop, maintain, repair and restore roads within or providing access to irrigation schemes 
coming under 7( 1) and7(2) above,
 (4) To make provisions to discharge the duties and functions ordered to be implemented by this 
Statute,
 (5) To prepare and publish in the Gazette, a list of all irrigation schemes coming under the scope 
of the Department, situated in divisional secretariat divisions of Central Province, by Grama 
Niladhari division,
 (6) To revise the above list as appropriate from time to time,
 (7) To establish, register and supervise Irrigation Management and Development Committees 
and Regional Irrigation Management Authorities,
 (8) To ensure construction or maintenance of irrigation works listed in 7(5) above are not carried 
out by other institutions without the approval of Provincial Director and to ﬁ le the design 
plans and information of approved projects,
 (9) To identify, demarcate, conserve and protect irrigation reservations and develop catchment 
areas of irrigations,
 (10) To take legal action against persons who damage or encroach irrigation systems and its 
structures, or intentionally or maliciously cause to waste water stored in an irrigation scheme,
 (11) To take legal action against persons who engage in a commercial activity at an irrigation 
scheme or who use irrigation schemes for illegal activities,
 (12) To plan and design to control damages to irrigation systems and agricultural lands due to 
natural disasters such as ﬂ oods and earth slips,
 (13) To ef ﬁ ciently manage water supplied by irrigation schemes and water used for agricultural 
practices,
 (14) To build capacities through increasing public awareness on construction, maintenance, and 
protection of irrigation schemes and water management,
 (15)  To maintain proper coordination with the relevant institutions and of ﬁ cials in order to solve 
the issues that arise while implementing programs related to irrigation schemes,
 (16)  To plan, design, construct, maintain, repair, and restore any engineering work intended to 
drain water from, or to regulate or prevent water in ﬂ ow or water outﬂ ow to any cultivated 
land or to protect it from ﬂ oods,
 (17) To get the participation of other Government or non-government or volunteer organizations 
in maintenance and construction of irrigation schemes,
Functions and 
powers of the 
Department

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
 (18)  The Provincial Director and/or a person who has been authorized by the Provincial Director 
may enter at any time and inspect a premise in order to implement the duties of this Statute,
 (19) To provide engineering guidance for subjects coming under the supervision of Secretary to 
the Ministry,
 (20) Other management and administrative authorities required to implement the duties of the 
department.
PART III
Establishment of Irrigation Management and Development Committees
8. Powers and Duties of Irrigation Committees
 (1) There may be established an Irrigation Management and Development Committee (hereinafter 
referred to as “Irrigation Committee”) for every tank, anicut, cascading system or irrigation 
system or irrigation scheme under the guidance of Provincial Director.
  (2) Each Irrigation Committee shall be registered at the of ﬁ ce of the Provincial Director.
 (3) Each Irrigation Committee shall have perpetual succession and a common seal.
 (4) An Irrigation Committee shall be a body incorporated with powers to perform all of its duties 
and may sue or be sued by its name.
 (5) An Irrigation Committee shall be able to summon meetings with the participation of occupiers 
and owner cultivators engaged in cultivation and implement the decisions taken regarding 
cultivation for each cultivation season and to take actions to make relevant provisions.
 (6) The Minister shall impose relevant regulations.
9. (1)   Membership of Irrigation Committees
 (a) Any person whose livelihood is agriculture can obtain membership of an Irrigation             
Committee established under the clause 8 above if such person is,
 (i)  a citizen of Sri Lanka;
 (ii)  not less than eighteen years of age;
 (iii) a permanent resident of the area of authority of the Irrigation Committee of which he is 
seeks the membership, or has been using irrigation water for agricultural activities for a 
period of over two years;
 (iv) a bene ﬁ tting owner cultivator or owner cultivator who obtains water for cultivation or 
an occupier.
(2) Associate Membership of Irrigation Committees
 (a) Of ﬁ cers, organizations and institutions engaged in the ﬁ eld of agriculture; and
 (b) A representative from a relevant agency determined by the Provincial Director;
 may obtain the associate membership of above Committee.
Registration
Authority and 
responsibilities
Membership 
and Associate 
Membership of 
the Committee
Establishment 
of Irrigation 
Management and 
Development 
Committees

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
10 (1) A General Meeting shall be summoned for appointing of ﬁ cers of the above Committee and 
the Provincial Director or an of ﬁ cer authorised by him shall preside the meeting. The three 
main ofﬁ ce bearers viz Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer of the Irrigation Committee and 
Vice-Chairman, Deputy Secretary and not less than two executive committee members shall 
be elected from the members.
 (2) Each Irrigation Committee shall have a constitution stating the composition of the commit-
tee, its fund and provisions for maintenance of the committee. The Secretary to the Ministry 
may, from time to time, order the general provisions to be included to the Constitution on the                   
recommendation of the Provincial Director. The regulations required for this shall be formulated 
and declared by the Minister.
 (3) The term of the office of the Irrigation Committee is two years. However a General                             
Meeting shall be held within 14 days prior to the end of two years and board of ofﬁ cers shall be            
elected. A member cannot be appointed to the same main position for two consecutive terms. 
The term of the ofﬁ ce of existing ofﬁ ce bearers come to an end with the appointment of new 
ofﬁ ce bearers.
 
 (4)  Provincial Director may dismiss any person who is found guilty based on the ﬁ ndings of an 
inquiry for any ﬁ nancial misconduct or ﬁ nancial fraud. A person removed such cannot be 
appointed for a position for a period of ﬁ ve years.
 
 (5) An appeal can be forwarded to Secretary to Ministry related to 10(4)  above within 14 days. 
The decision of Secretary to the Ministry shall be ﬁ nal and decisive.
11. (1) Every Irrigation Committee may maintain a Fund. The account of Fund shall be maintained in 
a state bank approved by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
 (2) These accounts of the Committee shall be audited in the same manner as is adopted 
to audit  accounts of the State Corporations as provided for under Article 154 of the 
Constitution. 
 (3) Irrigation Committees have the power to enter into agreements subject to the restrictions already 
imposed or to be imposed in future.
 (4) An Irrigation Committee will be under the supervision of Secretary to the Ministry or Provincial 
Director and Secretary to the Ministry or Ofﬁ cers authorized by the Provincial Director.
12. Each Irrigation Committee shall, within the area of its authority;
 (a) inspect whether work items of development projects implemented are properly executed 
and report to relevant ofﬁ cers of the Department,
 (b)  obtain contribution of farmers for the success of development projects,
 (c) take actions to maintain irrigation schemes effectively during and beyond the maintenance 
period of development project,
 (d) encourage and expand cultivation of paddy or other crops in agriculture lands or paddy 
lands,
 (e) Perform traditional customs and conventions relevant to cultivation,
 (f) ensure agricultural activities are carried out on par with the decisions taken at occupiers 
and owner cultivators meetings,
 (g) ef ﬁ ciently manage water from irrigation schemes and water used for agricultural use,
 (h) take steps to conserve soil by protecting crops from insects and diseases,
Term of 
Ofﬁ ce
Committee 
Fund
Auditing of 
accounts
Enter into Agree-
ments
Role of the 
Committee
Ofﬁ e and 
Constitution

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
 (i) take steps to order to cut and remove branches of trees and thicket of lands adjacent to any 
paddy ﬁ eld and canal and to cut and remove any thicket that interferes to the growth of 
crops cultivated in a paddy ﬁ eld or land,
 (j) summon meetings of owner cultivators and occupiers for the purpose of formulating regu-
lations relevant to development of collective agricultural activities in lands or agricultural 
lands within an irrigation scheme,
 (k)  inform the relevant ofﬁ cers about obstructions and damages made or being made to irrigation 
schemes and of ﬂ oods and other disasters.
13. Appointment of Irrigation Representative 
 (1) An Irrigation Representative shall be elected on the consent of majority of members at the 
time of appointing the Irrigation Committee. The Irrigation Representative may even be the 
Chairman, Secretary or a member of the executive committee.
 
(2) Unless removed from of ﬁ ce as a result of 
  (a) a letter of resignation forwarded to Provincial Director, or;
  (b) on the grounds of ﬁ ndings of an inquiry conducted by the Director or by any other ofﬁ cer 
duly authorized by him on chargers of inefﬁ ciency or misconduct; 
  (c) The Irrigation Representative will hold the of ﬁ ce for a period of two years or a period  
 speci ﬁ ed by the constitution from the date of appointment.
( 3) Role of the Irrigation Representative
 (a) to prepare a register of paddy lands in the tract with the assistance of other of ﬁ cers of the 
committee.
 
 (b) to allocate extents of the main bund, main distribution canal, the tank bund and spillway to 
each owner or occupier for cleaning and maintenance to be in proportionate with the extent 
of paddy lands belonging to him in the register of paddy lands. In the case of a land cultivated 
by an occupier, the name of owner of the land shall be indicated in this register.
 (c) the portion allocated to each owner cultivator or occupier shall be demarcated by him using 
a lasting method made of timber with heartwood, cement or stones, such that a part of each 
item buried in the ground to mark the borders is visible above the ground.
 (d) to cause the removal of thorny bushes, jungle and anthills in the portion so allocated and 
demarcated and ﬁ lling with earth the eroded parts of the bund prior to the commencement 
of each cultivation season. In addition it should be legal to inform the owners and occupi-
ers and to cause maintenance of their portions during a cultivation season if the Irrigation 
Committee decides that particular irrigation scheme needs maintenance.
 (e) The Irrigation Committee shall cause to be cleaned any portion allotted to any owner or 
occupier who does not properly clean the portion allotted to him in terms of sub section 
13.(3)(d), and shall notify such person to pay the cost incurred.
Appointment of 
Irrigation Repre-
sentative
Resignation from 
Irrigation Com-
mittee
Role of Irrigation 
Representative
Preparation of 
Register of Paddy 
Lands
Demarcation of 
Portion

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
        (i) if the relevant owner or occupier fails to pay the said amount within 21 days from 
the date of receipt of the notice, he shall be an offender under the provisions of this 
Statute.
        (ii) When an offence has been committed under the Clause13 (3)(e)( i) above, Irrigation 
Committee shall recover the monies as a ﬁ ne by a request to the Magistrate and this 
amount shall be credited to the Committee Fund.
 (f) to protect irrigations, to report on those who damage irrigation works to the Provincial 
Director, to assist to bring any such person before the court, to preserve water issued from 
reservoirs and irrigation works, to operate water management activities in accordance with 
time tables of agricultural plans, 
14. Every owner cultivator, occupier or tenant cultivator shall pay an emolument to the Irrigation 
Representative for the above services with part of their harvest or an amount of money determined 
by the General Assembly. Failure to pay the emolument is an offence under this Statute.
P
ART IV
Establishment of Regional Irrigation Management Authorities
15. Establishment of Regional Irrigation Management Authorities
(1) (a) Each Divisional Secretariat division of the Central Province may have a Regional Irrigation 
Management Authority (hereinafter referred to as “Regional Authority”) with the Inte-
gration of all Irrigation Committees of that Divisional Secretariat division. The Regional 
Authority shall comprise the members selected from registered Irrigation Committees 
within its Divisional Secretariat division.
  (b) A General Meeting, presided by the Provincial Director or an of ﬁ cer authorised by him, 
shall be summoned to appoint of ﬁ cers of the Regional Authority. The three main of ﬁ ce 
bearers - Chairman, Secretary and the Treasurer - and not less than four executive com-
mittee members shall be elected from the members of the committee.
  (c) Every Regional Authority must have a Constitution stating the composition, Fund and 
the provisions required to conduct the Regional Authority. The Secretary to the Ministry 
may, from time to time, order the general provisions to be included in the Constitution. 
The Minister shall formulate and declare regulations required for this.
  (d) The term of of ﬁ ce of the Regional Authority is two years from the date of appointment. 
However a General Meeting shall be held within 14 days prior to the end of two years 
and board of of ﬁ cers shall be elected. A member cannot be appointed to the same main 
position for two consecutive terms. The term of the ofﬁ ce of existing ofﬁ ce bearers come 
to an end with the appointment of new ofﬁ ce bearers.
  (e) Provincial Director may dismiss any person who is found guilty based on the ﬁ ndings of 
an inquiry for any ﬁ nancial misconduct or ﬁ nancial fraud. A person removed such cannot 
be appointed for a position for a period of ﬁ ve years.
 (f)  An appeal can be forwarded to Secretary to Ministry related to 15(1)(e)  above within 14 
days. The decision of Secretary to the Ministry shall be ﬁ nal and decisive.
(2) Every Regional Authority appointed under 15.(1) shall register at the of ﬁ ce of the Provincial 
Director.
Emolument
Establishment of 
Regional Irriga-
tion Management 
Authorities
Term of ofﬁ ce

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
   (3) Every Regional Authority shall have a perpetual succession and a common seal.
   (4) An Irrigation Committee shall be a body incorporated with powers to perform all of its duties 
and may sue or be sued by its name.
16. Every Regional Authority, within its area of authority;
 (a) three main of ﬁ ce bearers shall represent the regional agriculture committee.
 (b) shall work towards improving the inter-relationships among Irrigation Committees.
 (c) shall conserve irrigation works.
 (d) shall determine priorities in restoration and development activities.
 (e) shall protect the relevant irrigation reservations and develop and conserve catchment areas.
 (f) shall assist in developing high lands in the close proximity to every irrigation work.
 (g) to assist in demarcating and preserving components of irrigation works as required by rules 
and regulations.
17. (1) Every Regional Authority may maintain a Fund under the provisions of the Constitution. An 
account shall be maintained in respect of the Fund in a State Bank approved by the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka.
 (2) The accounts of the Authority shall be audited in the same manner as is adopted to audit 
accounts of the State Corporations as provided for under Article 154 of the Constitution.
 (3) Every Regional Authority has the power to enter into agreements subject to the restrictions 
already imposed or to be imposed in future.
 (4) A Regional Authority will be under the supervision of Secretary to the Ministry or Provincial 
Director and Secretary to the Ministry or Ofﬁ cers authorized by the Provincial Director.
 18.  The Minister may formulate regulations in terms of other matters and procedures related to 
Irrigation Committees and Regional Authorities established under Sections 8 and 15. 
P
ART V
Offences and Punishments
19. (1)  Any person who,
  (a)   blocks;
  (b) obstructs;
  (c) encroaches the land;
  (d) causes to be blocked or encroached upon; 
  (e) damage or causes to be damaged,
  (f) wastes conserved water wilfully or maliciously;
  (g) cultivates or puts up unauthorised erections within an irrigation or      
    irrigation reservation;
  (h) moves or causes to be moved earth or sand from connected areas;
  (i) dumps in the connected areas earth, sand, gravel, metal or similar matter  
 from outside for a purpose of paddy cultivation;
Authority and 
Responsibilities
    Fund
Auditing
Enter into Agree-
ments
Formulating 
Regulations
Damaging an 
irrigation system is 
an offence

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
   (j) dumps or allows dumping of garbage or allows the ﬂ ow any waste or dirty  
 matter;
  (k) damages or causes damages using animals, vehicles or machinery,
   any irrigation scheme, watercourse, bank, tank, bund, access to any tank,  
 anicut or irrigation scheme, reservation of an irrigation scheme, sluice,   
 thawulla, stream, brook, water reservation, irrigation reservation, agricultural  
 road, streamlet, river, anicut, an erection in an irrigation or a cascading system;
  (l) aids or supports to commit the above;
  
  without the prior permission of the Director, shall be an offender for an offence stipulated 
under this statute.
 (2)  Digging, constructing and maintaining a well for agricultural purposes in any identi ﬁ ed irri-
gation system shall be an offence under this Statute unless it is done subject to the conditions 
laid down by the Provincial Director.
 (3)  It shall be an offence under this Statute to act against any decisions made at Irrigation Com-
mittee meetings on agricultural activities.
20.  Where the Provincial Director observes that any person engages in an activity by contravening 
to provisions of Section 19, a substantial order shall be issued promptly by the Provincial 
Director according to the Schedule 1 directing to,
    (a)   rectify the relevant offence,
    (b).  restrain from continuing,
   (c)  bring back the relevant work to normal within a period of minimum 7 days    
 and  maximum 14 days.
21.(1)  When any person commits a breach of the order of the Section 20, the Provincial Director shall 
have the power to complain by a written notice to the Magistrate Court having jurisdiction.
  (2) Where a written notice under Sub-section 21(1) has been received by the Magistrate, and 
the aforesaid person is convicted after a summary trial before the Magistrate, to direct him 
to pay a ﬁ ne not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 
two years or to both such ﬁ ne and imprisonment. The expenses to rectify the consequences 
of his actions shall be charged from the convict(s). The report of the Director of such expense 
shall be a decisive evidence for that lawsuit. 
 (3)  The Magistrate Court shall have the power to order the convict to follow the order issued by 
the Director in terms of Section 20.
22.  Any person who commits a breach of any provision of this Statute or provisions of any reg-
ulation made under it shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and where such offence 
shall not be imposed a special punishment under this Statute when such person is convicted 
after a summary trial before the Magistrate, to direct him to pay a ﬁ ne not exceeding ﬁ ve 
thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both such ﬁ ne 
and imprisonment.
Issuance of orders 
by the provincial 
Director
Judicial actions 
when orders are 
breached
General punish-
ments

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
PART VI
General Provisions
23.   The Minister shall have the power to formulate regulations required to discharge the functions and 
powers of the Department in terms of implementing the provisions of this Statute.
24. (1)  Every regulation formulated by the Minister shall come into operation on date of publication in 
the Gazette or on such later date, as may be speciﬁ ed in the regulation.
 (2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Council for approval, 
immediately after or within a month after its publication in the Gazette. Any regulation failing to 
obtain approval thus shall be considered as repealed as from the date of its disapproval, but with-
out prejudice to any such executed there under, and that shall be published in the Gazette. Every 
regulation approved by the Provincial Council shall be published in the Gazette.
 (3) After the approval of regulations made under this Charter by the Provincial Council, such regu-
lations shall have the same force and effect as if they were contained in this Statute.
 (4) If any department, public corporation, person or board of persons intends to restore, develop, or 
preserve any type of irrigation scheme belonging to a irrigation scheme published in Gazette as 
per 7.(5)  above, the written permission of Provincial Director shall be obtained.
PART VII
Transitional Provisions
 25.  The person who has been appointed as the Provincial Director of the Provincial Department of 
Irrigation and Ofﬁ cers who have been appointed to other posts before the prescribed date shall 
be considered as the employees of the Provincial Department of Irrigation subjected to rules and 
conditions which are not less advantageous than the rules and conditions of this Statute. 
 26. (1) All assets, responsibilities, all debt liabilities, legal actions which have existed with the Provincial 
Department of Irrigation that has come into operation since before the prescribed date and all con-
tract agreements entered with the said Department shall be considered as the assets, responsibilities, 
debt liabilities, legal actions, and contract agreements which have existed under the Department 
that has been established under this Statute.
     (2)  All assets, responsibilities, all debt liabilities, legal actions which have existed with three District 
Ofﬁ ces in Kandy, Matale, and Nuwaraeliya those have come into operation before the prescribed 
date and all contract agreements entered with District Irrigation Engineers shall be considered 
as the assets, responsibilities, debt liabilities, legal actions, and contract agreements which have 
existed under the Department that has been established under this Statute.
 
P
ART VIII
Interpretation
27. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires;
“irrigation work” means irrigation scheme providing water to an agricultural land within the prov-
ince, other than irrigation schemes relating to rivers running through more than one province 
or interprovincial irrigation and land development schemes;
Imposing regu-
lations related to 
Statute
Provincial Direc-
tor and staff who 
have held posts 
from before 
Continuance of 
assets, respon-
sibilities and 
liabilities
Interpretation

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
“minor irrigation work” means an irrigation scheme that supplies water to agricultural land up to 
the extent of two hundred (200) acres; 
 “Province” means the Central Province;
 “Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council;
“Governor” means the person who holds the post of Governor of Central Province at present in 
terms of the Constitution; 
“Minister” means the Minister who is in-charge of the subject of irrigation of the Central Provincial 
Council;
“Secretary to the Ministry” means Secretary to the Ministry to which activities of irrigation schemes 
of the Central Provincial Council are delegated to;
“Provincial Director” means the Central Provincial Director of Irrigation;
“Engineer” means an engineer appointed to discharge the tasks and duties of the Provincial Irri-
gation Department.
“construction” with reference to any irrigation scheme, includes any improvement or extension 
of any irrigation scheme, or the repair or restoration of any abandoned irrigation scheme, or 
( subject to the de ﬁ nition of “maintenance” hereinafter contained) any action taken for the 
protection of any irrigation scheme, or the irrigable area there under, or of any part of such 
system or area;
“maintenance” with reference to any irrigation scheme, includes any operation for the protection 
of any existing irrigation scheme, or the irrigable area there under;
“irrigation scheme” includes the followings those come under the subject of Provincial Irrigation:-
(a) any tank, cascading system, bund, anicut, stream, channels, ﬁ eld channel, or watercourse  
comprised in or incidental or ancillary to an irrigation scheme or; 
(b) any structure, road, bridge, sluice, gate, or other engineering work comprised in or 
incidental or ancillary to construction or maintenance of irrigation scheme or; 
(c) any structure, bund, sluice, or other engineering work erected for the purpose of 
protecting any farming area in any cultivated area from ﬂ oods or any other disaster.
 
“water course” includes any river, tributary, or oya, or ela, or natural ela, or ela built to run off 
water time to time, or water runoff tributary or waterway or branch of such tributary, and area 
extending towards the land from the two banks of the said water course to a length equal to 
the length between the centre and the bank of such water course.
“paddy land” means land which is cultivated with paddy or is prepared for the cultivation of paddy 
or which, having at any time previously been cultivated with paddy, is suitable for the cultiva-
tion of paddy, and includes such other land adjoining or appertaining to it as may be used by 
the cultivator for a threshing ﬂ oor or for constructing his dwelling house, but does not include 
any land which is used for any purpose other than cultivation or which has been determined 
by the Commissioner of Agrarian Services as a non-paddy land.
“cultivator” with reference to an extent of a paddy land, means any person who by himself or by 
the members of his family or together with any other person, carries out 
(a)    two or more of the operations of plowing, sowing and reaping; 
(b)  and the operation of tending or watching the crop in each season of cultivation of 
that paddy land.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
“landlord” with reference to an extent of paddy land, if it were let on rent to any person, means the 
person other than the owner cultivator who is for the time being entitled to the rent in respect 
of such extent, and includes any tenant of such extent who lets it to any subtenant.
“owner cultivator” with reference to an extent of paddy land, means the person who is the owner or 
usufructuary mortgagee of such extent and who is the cultivator of the entire of such extent 
and in the case of the paddy ﬁ elds given under the Land Development Ordinance, the person 
who derives title to such extent and who is the cultivator of the entire of such extent shall 
deemed to be the owner cultivator of such extent.
“occupier” shall mean the person for the time being entitled to use and occupation of agricultural land 
by virtue of his being the lessee or usufructuary mortgagee and shall include persons in use 
and occupation of agricultural lands alienated under the Land Development Ordinance, State 
Land Ordinance or any other enactment, and includes a tenant cultivator. 
“cascading system or an irrigation system” means a region where there are feeding areas, reservations, 
canals, streams, paddy ﬁ elds with all irrigations and also a tank which, before connecting 
with a river or oya at the end, collects water originated from a speciﬁ c area with slopes and 
ﬂ owing in one direction and overﬂ owing with excessive rains;
“emolument” means share of harvest given by other farmers on their mutual consent to the irrigation 
representative for his effort and responsibility put into proper maintenance of the respective 
irrigations including the paddy ﬁ elds and proper conductance of cultivation season in addition 
to the responsibility undertaken by the him in planning and implementation of cultivation of 
his paddy ﬁ eld as an owner cultivator or tenant cultivator. 
“Portion” means the portion of main bund and main distribution canal allotted to a farmer in propor-
tionate to the number of farmers who cultivate with the water from an irrigation scheme and 
extent of his land indicated in the register of paddy lands.
“Irrigation reservation” means the strip of land left undisturbed to be used for the protection, pres-
ervation, maintenance or development of a tank, anicut, water course, or drainage canal.
    
    viz.
   for a tank or an anicut -  10 meters from maximum water level,
for an irrigation canal -  05 meters from maximum water level of the bank where the 
width of the bottom of the canal is less than 03 meters, or
 10 meters from maximum water level of the bank in case 
width of the bottom of the canal is more than or equal to                
03 meters.
Words importing one gender shall include all genders.
 
28.  In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
In an inconsist-
ency Sinhala text 
shall prevail 

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'04
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 04.10.2018
SCHEDULE  01
Form A
I …………………….............  Director of Irrigation, according to the powers vested in me by the Sections … of the Central Pro-
vincial Irrigation Statute No. 05 of 2017, having the opinion that you, ……………………………………………………………, 
have committed and/or causes more close to be committed the offence described hereunder;
hereby order you to act immediately according to
and/or to prevent from acting / further continuing  according to  
and/or to restore the offensive action committed by you within the period  …………………..
In case of your failure to act according to the above order, legal action being taken against you according to the powers 
delegated to me in terms of the Section 20 of the Irrigation Statute.
Provincial Director of Irrigation                                                                                              Date:
          Central province
10 - 980
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.