

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2186$29 - 2020 cQ,s ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'07'31
No. 2186/29 - FRIDAY ,  JULY 31, 2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notiﬁ cations
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  1A-  G  032325 — 67 (07/2020)
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA ACT, No. 36 OF 1987 
RULES made by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka, in terms of Sections 53 and  13 of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 
                                                                       V IRAJ DAYARATNE, PC,
 Chairman,
 Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka.
Colombo,
31st July, 2020.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
2A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Rules
1. These Rules may be cited as the Unit Trust Code for Sri Lanka Real Estate Investment Trusts, No. 1 of 2020
PART I
GENERAL
Interpretation 1 In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires  
“annual report and accounts” means in relation to a SL-REIT a report on the operations, ﬁ nancial 
performance and ﬁ nancial condition of such a SL-REIT during an accounting year and shall include 
the auditor’s report;
“approved accounting standards” has the meaning assigned to it in the Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards;
“CBSL” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
“CSE listing requirements” means the listing requirements of the Colombo Stock Exchange; 
“Explanatory Memorandum” means the document containing information of a SL-REIT inviting 
members of the public to subscribe to or purchase units in the SL-REIT;
“ﬁ nancial institution” means a commercial bank licensed by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or any 
other ﬁ nancial institution licensed/registered by the SEC; 
“general public” means the general public within or outside Sri Lanka;
“immovable property” means land, and any constructions and work of a permanent nature  standing 
thereon and anything forming an integral part thereof;
“independent person” means a person who is free of any relationship with the managing company 
or a controlling shareholder of the managing company or with the unit holders or with the assets of 
the fund that would otherwise interfere with the member’s exercise of independent judgment. The 
following persons shall not be deemed to be independent:-
(a) An of ﬁ cer of the Managing Company excluding its non-executive director
(b) An of ﬁ cer of the trustee of the SL- REIT
(c) An of ﬁ cer of any body corporate or unincorporated body that has the power to appoint or 
make recommendations  towards the appointment of members to the investment committee 
of the SL-REIT
(d) A close family member of an of ﬁ cer of the Managing Company or trustee of the SL-REIT
(e) A person representing or seen to be representing anybody corporate or un incorporate with 
a controlling interest in the managing company; or
(f) A person who, within six months prior to his appointment as an independent member, has 
derived any remuneration or bene ﬁ t, other than retirement bene ﬁ t, from the Managing 
Company or anybody corporate or un incorporate that has the power to appoint or make 
recommendations towards the appointment of members of the board of directors of the 
Managing Company or to the members of the investment committee of the SL-REIT.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
3A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
“IPO” means Initial Public Offer;
“key management personnel” means directors, chief executive ofﬁ cer, compliance ofﬁ cer, property 
manager, project manager, designated person or member of the investment committee;
“local equity” means equity provided by the citizens of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka in a Managing Company of a Unit Trust intending to manage a SL-REIT;
“major modiﬁ cation” means modiﬁ cations of the value not exceeding 25% of the value of the 
building in terms of the latest valuation;
“major unit holder” means the person who holds the largest percentage of units;
 “Managing Company” shall have the same meaning as given under the SEC Act No. 36 of 1987;
“net asset value (NA V)”means the value of all the SL-REIT’s assets less the value of all the                            
SL- REITS’s liabilities at the point of valuation; 
“near cash” means investments such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with maturities 
of less than three months, commercial paper endorsed or guaranteed by a licensed commercial bank 
or licensed specialized bank with maturities of less than three months and government securities 
including government bonds with maturities of less than one year which can be readily convertible 
into cash;
“non real-estate assets” means any other permitted investment other than real estate;
“ordinary resolution” means a resolution passed by a simple majority of votes validly cast at a 
meeting of unit holders;
“property development activities” means an activity which involves a construction or an extension 
of  a building or a modi ﬁ cation thereof or any other related activity pertaining to the existing real 
estate property of a SL-REIT;
 “real estate investment trust scheme” means a real estate investment scheme which aims to provide 
the opportunity for investors to participate together in the scheme’s pro ﬁ ts or income and capital 
gains arising from the acquisition, holding, a management or disposal of real estate or any other 
property vested in the trustee or trust managed by the managing company for a speciﬁ ed fee;
“real-estate” means income generating land and buildings including all things that naturally form 
part and parcel of the land as well as things attached to the land both below and above the ground 
and also including rights, interests and beneﬁ ts related to the ownership of the real estate. Such land 
and buildings shall be fully completed and either fully or partially occupied. Real-estate shall also 
include income generating infrastructure built or owned by the Government; 
“related party” means:-
(a) the managing company of a SL-REIT;
(b) the trustee of a SL-REIT;
(c) a major unit holder of a SL-REIT;
(d) a director, chief executive of ﬁ cer or major shareholder of the managing company; or
(e) close family members of the persons described in (d) above and subsidiaries and associate 
companies or any other company   connected with any of the above

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
4A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
“SL-REIT assets” means the assets of the SL- REIT including property; 
“stock exchange” has the meaning assigned to it in the Securities and Exchange Commission of 
Sri Lanka Act No. 36 of 1987; 
“sponsor” means any person who transfers or leases property to a SL-REIT;
“strategic investor” means any person who becomes a unit holder in a SL-REIT after the initial 
setting up of a SL-REIT and who together with or without the sponsor will hold an aggregate 
of not less than 30% and not more than 80% of the total units in issue of a SL-REIT; 
“SEC” means the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka;  
“SL-REIT” means a Sri Lanka Real Estate Investment Trusts; 
“Sri Lanka real estate investment trust (SL-REIT)” means a unit trust that invests or proposes to 
invest primarily in income-generating real estate;
“the property manager” means the person selected by the Managing Company, responsible for the 
proper management of the real estate property vested in the SL-REIT;
“the valuer” means the person selected by the trustee to value the SL-REIT’s assets;
 “The SEC Act” means the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act No. 36 of 1987;
“unit holder in relation to a SL-REIT” means any person for the time being registered by the real 
estate investment trust as a holder of a unit under such real estate investment trust; 
Object of the Rules 2 These Rules provide the regulatory framework for Real Estate Investment Trusts in Sri Lanka 
and the manner in which they will operate in Sri Lanka. 
Regulatory 
Framework
3 (1) The SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, these Rules, and Rules of a licensed Stock 
Exchange shall form the regulatory framework for Real Estate Investment Trusts that shall 
be listed in Sri Lanka. All parties to a Real Estate Investment Trust shall be governed by 
the framework referred to herein and the regulatory requirements.
  (2) Any person engaged in dealing, marketing and distributing (including issuance of 
advertisements and promotional material) or online transactions/activities relating to 
Real Estate Investment Trusts in Sri Lanka, shall observe and ensure compliance with 
the regulatory framework referred to in Rule 3 and all other Laws applicable to property.
Regulatory 
authority
4 The regulatory authority for the SL-REITs shall be the Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Sri Lanka. 
Exemptions and 
variations
5 In circumstances which the SEC deems exceptional, the SEC may on its own motion or upon 
application made to it, grant exemptions or variations from compliance with any rule hereunder.
Amendment of 
these Rules
6 The SEC may amend, vary or rescind any of these Rules in the same manner as these Rules 
are made.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
5A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Unit Trust Code 
and Directives to 
be followed
7 Every person engaged in dealing, marketing and distributional activities for SL-REITS shall 
follow the Unit Trust Code issued by Gazette Extraordinary No. 1723/4 dated September 12
th 
2011 and relevant directives that have been issued by the SEC, when issuing advertisements 
and promotional material.
8 A person shall not issue, offer for subscription or purchase, make an invitation to subscribe for 
or purchase any units of a SL-REIT unless the Explanatory Memorandum and the Trust Deed 
have been approved by the SEC.
9 In the event that there is a con ﬂ ict between the provisions of these Rules or the Listing Rules 
these Rules shall prevail. In the event that these Rules are silent on any matter pertaining to 
the provisions in the Listing Rules, the SEC may issue directives to address the issue and such 
Directives shall take precedence over the Listing Rules.
                              PART II
Establishment of a SL-
REIT 
10. A SL-REIT shall be a newly created REIT which may take the form of any one or 
more of the following;
(a) The purchase of a property with the intention of leasing residential or 
commercial units of a building standing thereon for a certain period of time 
and terminating the SL-REIT upon a subsequent sale of the property; 
(b) The leasing of a property with the intention of sub-leasing residential or 
commercial units of a building standing thereon for a certain period of time 
and terminating the SL-REIT upon the expiry of the lease; 
(c) Any other property which has been approved by the SEC upon terms and 
conditions imposed by it.
However, all buildings standing on the property purchased outright or obtained by 
way of a lease as referred to above, shall be fully completed and no building which 
is partially completed shall qualify hereunder.
Provided that the newly created SL-REIT shall be structured in compliance with the 
requirements of these Rules and shall have a life of more than ﬁ ve years from the 
inception and shall be listed on a licensed Stock Exchange in Sri Lanka. 
Provided further that once the SL-REIT is listed the unit holders may only exit from the 
secondary market and shall not be entitled for redemption by the Managing Company 
other than at the point of winding up or terminating the SL-REIT.  
The real estate property of 
a SL-REIT
11. The real estate which shall form part of the assets of a SL-REIT shall;
(1)  Where the real estate of the SL-REIT is to be owned by the SL- REIT-
(a)  The property shall be transferred to the SL-REIT pursuant to the 
veriﬁ cation of validity of the title deeds demonstrating clear title to the 
property free of all encumbrances.
(b) That all survey plans pertaining to the land including sub division plans 
have been duly approved by the relevant authorities.
(c)  That all buildings standing on the property have received all relevant 
approvals, licenses and clearances for their design and construction from 
the relevant authorities, Municipalities and or Provincial Councils.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
6A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
The real estate property of 
a SL-REIT (Contd.)
(d) That all rates and taxes have been duly paid to the relevant authorities.
(e) That the real estate of the SL-REIT has, in accordance with these Rules, 
been valued by a competent independent valuer.
(f) Any other requirements that the SEC may specify from time to time
(2) Where the real estate of the SL-REIT is to be leased to the SL-REIT:-
(a) The property shall be leased to the Trust pursuant to a valid lease 
agreement entered into with the owner of the property, who has 
established his ownership and the right to lease such property with valid 
title, free of all encumbrances and such lease agreement has authorized 
the trust to enter into sub lease the buildings standing on the property. 
The tenure of the lease entered into by the SL-REIT shall not be for a 
period less than for the minimum period approved by the SEC. 
(b) That all survey plans pertaining to the land including sub division plans 
have been duly approved by the relevant authorities.
(c) That all buildings standing on the property have received all relevant 
approvals, licenses and clearances for their design and construction from 
the relevant authorities, Municipalities and or Provincial Councils.
(d) That all rates and taxes payable upto the point of lease have been duly 
paid by the lessor to the relevant authorities.
(e) The real estate of the SL-REIT has been valued by a competent 
independent valuer acceptable to the SEC. 
(f) The lessor shall be responsible for the payment of rates and taxes in 
respect of the property during the tenure of the lease.
(g) Any other requirements that the SEC may specify from time to time.
Public Offers 12. (1) SL-REIT shall be established and marketed by way of public offer or by way of 
private placement to investors within or outside Sri Lanka.
          (2) SL-REIT which is to be established by way of public offer shall be listed and 
traded on an exchange licensed by the SEC.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
7A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART III
The Managing Company 13. (1)  A Managing Company shall not manage or operate a SL-REIT without ﬁ rst having 
obtained a license from the SEC to operate such SL-REIT.
(2) A Managing Company intending to operate and manage a SL-REIT shall be a body 
corporate and shall provide in its Articles of Association: -
(a) for the establishment and management of a SL-REIT ;
(b) for the issuance, offering for subscription, making an invitation to 
subscribe for or purchase units of the Real Estate Investment Trust; and 
(c) for operating and administering the underlying asset of the Real Estate 
Investment Trust.
Eligibility Requirements 14. A Managing Company shall –
(a) be a body corporate  incorporated in Sri Lanka;
(b) ensure the Stated Capital of the body corporate consists of  50% or 
more of local equity;
(c) have a minimum Shareholders’ Funds of LKR 50 Million at all times;
(d) have identi ﬁ ed the real estate which is to form the SL-REIT property 
and shall have entered into an agreement with the sponsor either for 
outright purchase or to lease which has been notarially executed; and
(e) have entered into a trust agreement with a Trustee approved by the 
SEC.
Change of Managing 
Company
15. A Managing Company which has been granted a license to operate a SL-REIT shall only 
be permitted to withdraw as the Managing Company in the following circumstances:-
(a) due to a liquidation of the licensed Managing Company in accordance 
with the provisions of the Company’s Act, No. 7 of 2007, and where 
a corporate entity deemed suitable by the SEC has been nominated 
prior to its liquidation;
(b) a proposal has been made by  the Managing  Company to the SEC 
to appoint an identiﬁ ed “nominated competent Managing Company” 
which has more competencies and resources in managing REITs than 
the existing company together with the consent of the nominated party. 
In such an event the Managing Company shall prove to the satisfaction 
of the SEC that the proposed entity has fulﬁ lled all required criteria of 
the SEC in terms of the provisions of the SEC Act, Directives issued 
thereunder, these Rules, and Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange to 
become eligible to obtain a license from the SEC to operate the SL-
REIT;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
8A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Provided however, the services of a Managing Company shall not be terminated until 
a new Managing Company which has been licensed to operate a SL-REIT has been 
appointed by the Trustee with the prior approval of the SEC and written notice of the 
termination and the appointment of the new Managing Company has been sent to 
unit holders. The termination shall take effect at the same time as the new Managing 
Company takes ofﬁ ce;
(c) a new Managing Company may with effect from the date of its 
appointment change the name of the SL-REIT at its discretion with 
the consent of the SEC  and the Trustee.
Reconstruction, 
Amalgamation and Change 
in Shareholding 
16. Any reconstruction or amalgamation of a SL-REIT in which the Managing Company is 
a party, or any change in the shareholding of the Managing Company shall, require the 
prior approval of the SEC in order to ensure its continued eligibility to be a Managing 
Company of a SL-REIT.
Board of Directors 17. (1) (a)  The Board of Directors of a Managing Company shall comprise of at least 
two independent directors whilst maintaining a minimum ratio of at least one-third 
independent directors at all times. 
(b) The Managing Company shall obtain from its directors an af ﬁ davit which 
shall contain a declaration of their ﬁ tness and propriety to hold such position 
(in the case of independent directors, a further declaration setting out their 
independence) in the Managing Company and submit such af ﬁ davit to the 
SEC and to the stock exchange on which the SL-REIT is listed; the afﬁ davit 
shall be tendered:-
 (i) at the time of submitting the application to the SEC to obtain a 
license to operate a SL-REIT
 (ii) before appointing a new director to the board of directors of the 
Managing Company and
 (iii) on an annual basis
 
(c) The independent directors of a Managing Company shall, in addition to their 
duties and responsibilities as directors, represent and safeguard the interest of 
unit holders. In the event of a conﬂ ict between the best interest of the Managing 
Company and those of the unit holders the latter shall prevail.
(d) In the event the independence of the independent directors is impaired in any 
manner the Managing Company shall report to the SEC immediately and also 
make a disclosure to the stock exchange simultaneously.
(2) The persons appointed shall–
(a) be of good repute and standing as deemed by the SEC;
(b) observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in carrying out their 
duties and responsibilities;
(c) act with due skill, care and diligence in carrying out their duties and 
functions in accordance with the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder 
and these Rules; and

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
9A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(d) possess the necessary quali ﬁ cations and demonstrable expertise and 
experience particularly in the  ﬁ eld of managing REITS to perform their 
duties and responsibilities in a ﬁ t and proper manner to ensure that  funds 
of the unit holders are managed with utmost care.
(3) It shall be the responsibility of the Managing Company to assess the ability of the 
directors and ofﬁ cers to carry out the duties and responsibilities required of them.
(4)  (a) Where any person becomes subject to any disqualiﬁ cation or becomes otherwise 
unﬁ t to hold of ﬁ ce, the Managing Company shall ensure that such person 
vacates the position immediately. 
(b) The Managing Company shall notify the SEC forthwith of any disqualiﬁ cation 
and when such position becomes vacant.
(5) A director of a Managing Company shall not–
(a) hold of ﬁ ce as a Director of more than one Managing Company at any one 
time; nor
(b) hold of ﬁ ce as a member of the investment committee of funds managed by 
another Managing Company
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 18. A Managing Company shall appoint a suitable person as a Chief Executive Of ﬁ cer 
who shall be a full time ofﬁ cer.
Requirement for 
Explanatory Memorandum
19. The Managing Company shall execute an Explanatory Memorandum in compliance 
with the requirements set out in these Rules and shall contain details as to how the 
SL-REIT is to be set up and operated and shall also contain disclosures which are 
adequate in order to enable the investors to make informed investment decisions. 
Duties of a Managing 
Company
20. (1) A Managing Company shall at all times carry out its duties and functions in 
accordance with the SEC Act, Directives issued there under and these Rules; 
       (2) The Managing Company shall ensure that the property sought to be transferred or 
leased to the SL-REIT has valid title free of all encumbrances and that the transfer 
or the lease of the property to the SL-REIT has been properly executed and that 
the subsequent lease or rental agreements have been properly executed by or on 
behalf of the SL-REIT.
        (3)  In order to ensure that the property sought to be transferred or leased to a SL-REIT 
is acceptable, the Managing Company and Trustee shall ensure that an Attorney at 
Law who is also Notary Public with not less than ten years of notarial experience 
shall examine the title of the property for the preceding 30 years.
For this purpose, the Managing Company shall ensure that the following documents 
are made available:-
(a) original of the current owner’s deed or certi ﬁ cate of title;
(b) latest approved survey or condominium plan;
(c) other plans to cover the preceding 30 year and other related deeds to 
cover the preceding 30 years unless the title originates from a partition 
decree or grants issued by the Government of  Sri Lanka;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
10A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(d) certi ﬁ ed extracts from the Land Registry evidencing encumbrances to 
cover the preceding 30 years;
(e) original approvals and certificates issued by the local authorities 
including certiﬁ cates of ownership, certi ﬁ cates of non vesting, street 
line and building line certiﬁ cates, notice of assessment for the current 
year with receipt of tax paid for the full year, certiﬁ cate on sanctioned 
building lines and certiﬁ cate on sanctioned street lines;
(f) approved building plan and certi ﬁ cate of conformity;
(g) certi ﬁ cate of approval by the local authority of the amalgamation or sub 
division of the property;
(h) bill of quantities prepared by chartered architects or engineers together 
with the approved building plan in the case of major modi ﬁ cations 
needing to be carried out; 
(i) clearance from the National Environmental Authority;
(j) ﬁ re insurance policy for the building; and
(k) any other relevant title documents including letters of administration, 
probates, afﬁ davits and death certiﬁ cates
(4) A Managing Company shall operate the SL-REIT under its management and exercise 
its obligations in accordance with the Trust Deed, Explanatory Memorandum, the SEC 
Act, Directives issued thereunder, these Rules and all applicable laws of Sri Lanka.
(5) The Managing Company shall adopt proper business practices in a timely manner in 
carrying out its duties and functions
(6) In carrying out its duties and functions a Managing Company shall:-
(a) exercise the degree of care and diligence that a reasonable person would exercise 
in the position of a Managing  Company
(b) act in the best interests of unit holders and, if there is a con ﬂ ict between unit 
holders’ interests and its own interests, give priority to the interests of unit holders;
(c) not improperly make use of information acquired through being the Managing 
Company to–
(i)   gain an advantage for itself or other person; or
(ii)   cause detriment to unit holders in the SL-REIT;
(d) ensure that the trust’s property is–
 (i) clearly identi ﬁ ed as the property of the trust; 
 (ii) that the real estate of the trust property is free from all encumbrances; 
and
 (iii) held separately from the assets of the Managing Company and any 
other funds managed by the Managing  Company; 
(e)      (i)  establish and maintain risk management systems and controls to enable it 
to identify, assess and mitigate risks in relation to the SL-REIT it operates 
and manages;
          (ii)  have adequate human resources with the necessary qualiﬁ cations, expertise 
and experience to carry on business as a Managing Company of a SL-
REIT; and
       (iii)  have adequate and appropriate systems, procedures and processes to 
undertake the business as a Managing Company of a SL-REIT in a proper 
and efﬁ cient manner;

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
11A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(f) the Managing Company shall be;
 (i) subject to the supervision and oversight of the Trustee;
 (ii) comply with any instructions given by the Trustee; and
(iii) accountable to the Trustee for any loss suffered by the SL-REIT as 
a result of its failure to exercise the degree of care and diligence 
required in operating and managing a SL-REIT;
(g) ensure that its of ﬁ cers and employees do not make improper use of 
information acquired during the course of their duties and functions to 
gain an advantage for himself or another person or cause detriment to 
the unit holders of the SL-REIT; 
(h) ensure that the of ﬁ cers and employees comply with all duties and 
obligations speciﬁ ed under the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, 
these Rules, the Listing Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange and all other 
Laws that may be applicable;
(i) have a contingency plan that enables it to respond to any urgent need 
that may arise in the course of its investment and management of the 
assets of the SL-REIT and divestment of such assets; 
(j) take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence to ensure that the 
property of the SL-REIT is correctly valued in line with the provisions 
of the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder and these Rules; 
(k) for the purpose of valuing the property of the SL-REIT, not do or omit to 
do anything that would, or might confer on itself a beneﬁ t or advantage 
at the expense of unit holders or potential unit holders.
(l) ensure all lease rentals are collected and are credited to a bank account 
approved by the Trust;
(m) the lease rentals collected are invested in a manner approved by the 
Investment Committee and the Trust until dividends are distributed;
(n) ninety percent of the income of the SL-REIT is distributed in a timely 
manner as provided in the Explanatory Memorandum;
(o) perform Know Your Customer (KYC) and Customer Due Diligence 
(CDD) requirements to comply with applicable regulations and to ensure 
that the assets of the SL-REIT are not utilized for an illegal purpose;
(p) if the Managing Company fails to achieve the objectives mentioned in 
the Explanatory Memorandum for one year, or any subsequent years 
thereafter, the Managing Company shall obtain a rating for the SL-REIT 
from a rating agency registered by the SEC until such objectives in 
Explanatory Memorandum are achieved; 
(q) in the event that the SL-REIT distributes a dividend less than 90% of the 
distributable income for any ﬁ nancial year, the Managing company shall 
obtain a rating certiﬁ cate for the SL-REIT from a Credit Rating agency 
registered with the SEC at its cost and disclose same to the licensed 
Stock Exchange unless otherwise the approval of unit holders have been 
obtained at an Extraordinary General Meeting via a resolution, to pay 
a dividend less than 90%.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
12A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
The Sponsor 21 (1) It shall be the responsibility of the Managing Company to identify one or more 
sponsors who shall own the property which will be transferred or leased out to the 
SL-REIT and such property shall thereafter form the assets of a SL-REIT.
(2) A sponsor shall be disquali ﬁ ed from holding shares or holding a position as a 
Director or key management person of a Managing Company.
(3) In addition to other requirements as may be speciﬁ ed from time to time, a sponsor 
shall have investment capabilities to meet the required criteria of the SEC which may 
be issued from time to time by way of Directives. A Managing Company shall obtain 
a written undertaking from the sponsor that he will duly comply with the instructions 
if any, issued to him by the SEC through the Managing Company.
(4) The Sponsor shall enter into an agreement with the Managing Company and the 
Trustee and such agreement shall contain the following terms and conditions:-
(a) Where it is necessary that major modiﬁ cations are required to be effected 
to the property that is to be transferred or leased to the SL-REIT and such 
necessity has been spelt out in the Explanatory Memorandum but the 
SL-REIT fails to carry out such major modiﬁ cation, all funds disbursed 
for such major modiﬁ cations shall be deemed to be part of the value of 
the property transferred or leased by the Sponsor to the SL-REIT and 
not from the funds of other unit holders. In such event the Sponsor shall 
be entitled to receive any payment only if there is any residue after all 
other unit holders are paid. 
(b) At all times the Sponsor shall hold not less than 30% of all units.
(c) A Sponsor shall exit his holding in SL-REIT full or part, only if he’s 
able to sell such holding to a strategic investor. 
(d) In the event the sponsor exits from the SL-REIT in full he shall ensure 
that the strategic investor shall hold a minimum of 30% of the units in 
issue and not exceed 80% of the total units in issue.
(e) In the event the sponsor exits from the SL-REIT in part the sponsor shall 
ensure that the sponsor and strategic investor in aggregate shall hold a 
minimum of 30% of the units and not exceeding 80% of the total units 
in issue.
(f) The Sponsor shall submit a Title Report and supporting Deeds in order to 
demonstrate that he has valid title to the property that is to be transferred 
or leased to the SL-REIT, devoid of any encumbrances and shall also 
submit an afﬁ davit to that effect. 
(g) The Sponsor shall submit a written undertaking to the SEC and Managing 
Company that he will warrant and defend the title to the real estate 
property vested in the SL-REIT, at his own cost if a dispute arises in 
respect of the title of the property of a SL-REIT, in addition to a covenant 
in the deed that he warrants and defends title of the real estate property.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
13A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(h) The Sponsor shall submit to the SEC and Managing Company an 
undertaking by way of an af ﬁ davit along with supporting documents, 
that the buildings have been constructed upon receiving all relevant 
approvals from the relevant authorities, municipalities and or Provincial 
Councils.
(i) Where the Managing Company is of the view that a SL-REIT shall be 
wound up or liquidated such proposal may be considered by the SEC 
provided, the unit holders other than the sponsor or strategic investor are 
given priority in disbursing the value of the property of the SL-REIT on 
liquidation or winding up. Such unit holders shall be entitled at minimum 
to the higher of the amounts contributed during the IPO or the NA V at 
the time of winding up or liquidating, before the sponsor or strategic 
investor becomes entitled to any distribution. Excess remaining if any, 
may only be used to settle the sponsor or strategic investor after settling 
such unit holders. 
Provided however the ﬁ nal value to be settled to the sponsor or strategic 
investor shall be either equal or lower than the amount paid to the public 
unit holders.
Property Manager 22 (1) A Managing Company shall have a person as property manager to manage the 
real estates of the SL-REIT and shall notify to the Trustee of such appointment.
 (2) The property manager shall possess the necessary experience and expertise in 
real estate management.
 (3) The property manager shall be responsible to maintain the assets of the SL-REIT 
in a marketable condition and shall ensure that all material contracts including rental or 
lease agreements entered on behalf of the SL-REIT are valid, binding and enforceable 
by and on behalf of the SL-REIT.
Designated Persons 
Responsible for the Fund 
23 (1) A Managing Company shall employ an individual as a designated person who shall 
be responsible for the real estate portfolio management of the SL-REIT and who shall 
be competent in managing real estate investments and shall possess a minimum of 
ﬁ ve years of senior managerial demonstrable experience and expertise in Real Estate 
Investment.
(2) Where the SL-REIT’s investment strategy includes investments in non-real estate-
related assets in addition to real estate assets, the Managing Company shall ensure 
that a designated person responsible for the fund management function in respect of 
non-real estate related assets is appointed. Such designated person shall be competent 
with a minimum ﬁ ve years of demonstrable senior managerial experience in the ﬁ eld 
of managing non-real estate related assets.
Compliance Ofﬁ cer 24 (1) A Managing Company shall appoint an Attorney at Law who is also a notary 
public with a minimum of ten years’ experience in property matters as Compliance 
Ofﬁ cer who shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with the SEC Act, Directives 
issued thereunder, these Rules, Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange and all other Laws 
applicable to Property. 
(2) A Compliance Of ﬁ cer shall report to the Board of Directors

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
14A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
 (3) The duties and functions of a Compliance Ofﬁ cer shall include but are not limited 
to the following;-
(a) Preparation of compliance reviews regularly at every meeting of the 
Board of Directors and/or audit committee meetings. The compliance 
review shall examine compliance issues relating to each area of the 
Managing Company’s operations.
(b) Review of compliance procedures for each area of the Managing 
Company’s operations.
(c) Examine and/or inquire into any irregularity in the Managing Company’s 
operations. All ﬁ ndings shall be properly documented. If the Board of 
Directors of the Managing Company is unable to rectify any irregularity 
or contravention within a period of one month the compliance ofﬁ cer 
shall notify the Trustee to enable the Trustee to address and take 
necessary action to rectify such irregularity or contravention and shall 
keep the SEC informed simultaneously.
(d) The preparation of the compliance manual and the code of conduct for 
employees of the Managing Company and shall be entrusted with the 
creation of awareness amongst the employees of the Managing Company 
with regard to compliance matters and regulatory requirements of the 
SEC and other regulators where relevant.
(e) Regular updating of the compliance manual and code of conduct.
(f) Monitor and resolve con ﬂ icts of interests between SL-REITs managed 
and administered by the Managing Company and between the Managing 
Company and a SL-REIT.
(g) Reporting to the investment committee, the Board of Directors and the 
Audit Committee on all irregularities or contraventions or breaches of 
the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, these Rules or any other 
applicable Laws relating to property by the Managing Company or a 
delegate or agent or employee of the Managing Company. 
If the Board of Directors of the Managing Company fails to initiate remedial 
action within a period of two weeks of the reporting thereof the Compliance 
Ofﬁ cer shall forthwith report the matter to the Trustee. 
(h) Advising on any matter relating to compliance with the applicable 
requirements, including but not limited to fund management, dealings 
by employees and directors of the Managing Company and all matters 
relating to the Law of property, registration of title, apartment ownership 
Law and the Law relating to prevention of fraud in Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
15A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Construction
Contractor 
25 (1)  If the SL-REIT is to effect major modi ﬁ cations the Managing Company shall 
appoint a construction contractor to construct and develop the real estates of the 
SL-REIT with the prior approval of the Trustee and with notice to the SEC.
     (2) The construction contractor shall be an entity registered with the Construction 
Industry Development Authority (CIDA) in the highest category for at least 5 
years for Building Construction Category and in the case of a foreign contractor 
shall posses an equivalent registration from the country of origin.
       (3) Prior to selecting the construction contractor, the Managing Company shall ensure 
that competitive bids or quotations are obtained from a minimum of three eligible 
contractors. Any person local or foreign who has successfully completed at least 
two comparable construction undertakings during the last ten years of operation 
in Sri Lanka of comparable scale and value shall be deemed to be eligible for the 
purpose of obtaining competitive bids or quotations.
      (4)  In selecting a construction contractor the Managing Company shall ensure that the 
value threshold for the cost of construction shall be based on the total value of 
the major modiﬁ cation.
      (5)   Contracts with the contractors for such major modi ﬁ cations shall follow the 
applicable CIDA conditions of contract
Internal Audit 26 (1) (a) A Managing Company shall maintain an internal audit to report on the 
adequacy, effectiveness and efﬁ ciency of managing operations, risk management 
and internal controls.
(b) A Managing Company shall cause to be conducted an internal audit in to the 
affairs of the SL-REIT at least once a year.
External Audit (2) The Managing Company shall ensure independent competent auditor is  engaged 
to timely complete the audit of the ﬁ nancials of the Managing Company as well 
as of the SL-REIT.
Legal Audit (3) A Managing Company shall cause a legal audit to be conducted after the 
establishment of the SL-REIT and a report shall be made available to the SEC 
and the Stock Exchange together with the ﬁ rst quarterly ﬁ nancials. In the event 
a new property is acquired by the SL-REIT, the Managing Company shall cause 
a legal audit to be performed and a report shall be made available to the SEC 
and the Stock Exchange at the ﬁ rst quarterly ﬁ nancials that are due pursuant 
to such acquisition. 
Permitted Investments in 
Real Estate  
27 (1) A Managing Company shall ensure that real estate having valid title and free of 
encumbrances shall be allowed to form the underlying assets of a SL-REIT. 
      (2)  In carrying out the duties speciﬁ ed in Rule 28 the Managing Company shall ensure 
that the real estate property forming the underlying asset of a SL-REIT shall have 
a minimum occupancy of 20% or as may be speciﬁ ed by the SEC.
       (3) A Managing Company shall ensure that the property of a SL-REIT shall not be 
used for an unauthorized or illegal purpose.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
16A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Valuation 28 A Managing Company shall ensure that the valuation of the assets of an SL-REIT 
is done in accordance with PART X of these Rules and the valuation report shall 
comply with all requirements stipulated therein.
Pricing of Units 29 (1) A Managing Company shall take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence 
to ensure that the SL-REIT’s units are correctly priced at the initial public offerings 
and any subsequent issues, in line with the provisions of the SEC Act, Directives 
issued thereunder, these Rules, the Trust Deed, the Explanatory Memorandum and 
Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange.
(2) For the purpose of pricing the units, a Managing Company shall not do or omit 
to do anything that would, or might confer on itself a bene ﬁ t or advantage at the 
expense of unit holders or potential unit holders.
(3) A Managing Company shall obtain an independent veri ﬁ cation from a ﬁ rm of 
chartered accountants conﬁ rming that IPO price or listing price calculation is accurate 
and price is a reasonable representation of the value of assets of the SL-REIT. A copy 
of same is required to be submitted to the Trustee, SEC and CSE prior to listing.  
Maintenance of Records 30 (1)  A Managing Company shall maintain proper accounting records and other 
records as necessary–
(a) to enable a complete and accurate view of the fund to be formed; 
and
(b) to comply with the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, these 
Rules and all other Laws applicable to Property.
(2)  A Managing Company shall ensure that the ﬁ nancial statements of the SL-REIT 
give a true and fair view of the trust’s ﬁ nancial position as at the end of the trust’s 
ﬁ nancial period.
(3) A Managing Company shall prepare and present, or cause to be prepared and 
presented, its ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with approved accounting and 
auditing standards, the Trust Deed, the Explanatory Memorandum, the SEC Act, 
Directives issued there under, these Rules and Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange
Provision of Information 31 A Managing Company shall submit or make available any information relating to 
the Trust, its business and any other information as may be required by the SEC 
and the Trustee from time to time.
Insurance 32 (1) A Managing Company shall ensure at all times that adequate insurance policies 
for itself and the properties of the SL-REIT are obtained and ensure that it complies 
with accepted industry standards and policies. It shall ensure;-
(a) that insurance policies are taken in the name of the Trustee to cover all insurable 
risks in relation to the property from an insurance provider approved by the 
Trustee;
(b) that the insurance policies taken are adequate to cover the risks; and 
(c) that quarterly updates signed by the Board of Directors are given to the Trustee 
on the insurance taken to assure the Trustee of its adequacy and validity.
(2) A detailed list of insurance policies indicating adequate coverage shall be 
forwarded to the SEC and Trustee together with quarterly reporting requirements.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
17A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART IV
Trust Deed 33 (1) The SL-REIT shall come into existence upon establishing a Trust by the 
Managing Company. The Trust Deed shall contain the minimum requirements set 
out in these Rules and those speciﬁ ed under the SEC Act where applicable and any 
Directives that may be issued thereunder.
(2) A Managing Company and Trustee shall be responsible for executing the Trust 
Deed and for making necessary amendments to the Trust Deed in accordance with 
the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder and these Rules. 
Investment Objectives of 
the SL-REIT
34 (1) The investment objectives of the SL-REIT shall be clearly stipulated in the Trust 
Deed and the Explanatory Memorandum.
(2) Where the mechanism to be adopted to attain the investment objectives set 
out in the Explanatory Memorandum and the Trust Deed involve investments in a 
particular style, asset class, category, economic sector, market or geographical area, 
it shall be the duty of the Managing Company to ensure that an appropriate portion 
of the SL-REIT is invested in accordance with that objective.
Amendments to the Trust 
Deed
35 (1) Any amendment to a Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Trust Ordinance, SEC Act, Directives issued there under, these 
Rules and Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange where relevant and shall be subject 
to the prior approval of the SEC.
(2) Any amendment to the Trust Deed of a SL-REIT, including any material change 
to the investment objectives set out for the SL-REIT shall be approved by the unit 
holders of the SL-REIT by way of a resolution passed by not less than seventy ﬁ ve 
percent (75%) of unit holders. 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
18A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART V
The appointment of 
Trustee 36 A Trustee shall be appointed for a SL-REIT with the prior approval of the SEC, and 
shall be a bank licensed by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
Trustee’s Obligations 37 It shall be the duty of the Trustee to exercise due diligence in monitoring the operation 
and management of the SL-REIT by the Managing Company.
38 (1) A Trustee shall, at all times, through proper and adequate supervision ensure that 
the Trust is operated and managed by the Managing Company, in accordance with–
(a) the Trust Deed;
(b) the Explanatory Memorandum;
(c) the SEC Act, the Directives issued thereunder and these Rules; 
(d) the Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange; and
(e) all applicable Laws relating to property in Sri Lanka;
(2) Where necessary the Trustee shall act promptly including instituting legal action 
to protect the Trust property in order to safeguard the interests of the unit holders.
Duties and Responsibilities 
of the Trustee
39 (1) In addition to the duties stipulated in the Trust Deed, the Trustee shall observe 
and carry out its duties in accordance with the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, 
these Rules and the provision of the Trust Deed.
(2) The Trustee shall have the ﬁ duciary duty to hold the assets of a SL-REIT in trust 
for the beneﬁ t of the unit holders and ensure that all investment activities carried 
out by the Managing Company are in line with the investment objective and policy 
of the SL-REIT and are in the best interests of the unit holders. The Trustee shall 
also ensure that the activities of the Managing Company complies with the relevant 
regulatory requirements applicable to the SL-REIT.
  
40 A Trustee shall ensure that the Managing Company complies with the obligations 
cast on it with regard to the SL-REIT property as morefully set out in PART III.
 And further ensure;
(a) that all contracts (such as property contracts, lease agreements 
and any other agreements) entered into on behalf of the SL-REIT 
are legal, valid and binding and enforceable by and on or behalf 
of the SL-REIT;
(b) that all property owned or leased by the SL-REIT is clearly 
identiﬁ ed as the trustee’s property and ensure that all the assets 
of the SL-REIT are properly segregated and held for the beneﬁ t 
of the unit holders in accordance with the provisions of the SEC 
Act, Directives issued thereunder, these Rules the Trust Deed 
and the Explanatory Memorandum;

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
19A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(c) that the property of the SL-REIT is held separately from any 
other asset or property held by or entrusted to the Trust;
(d) that the property of the SL-REIT is registered in the name of, or 
to the order of the Trust;
(e) cause a valuation of any of the real estate of the SL-REIT to be 
carried out if it, or the Managing Company, reasonably believes 
that such valuation is appropriate; and  
(f) that the investment and borrowing limitations as provided for 
by the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, these Rules, the 
Trust Deed and the Explanatory Memorandum are complied with. 
Any breach of the maximum borrowing limit shall be noti ﬁ ed 
to the SEC and unit holders. Further, Trustee shall instruct the 
Managing Company to rectify such non-compliance but not later 
than three calendar months.
Trustee’s Reporting and 
Disclosure Obligations
41 The Trustee shall notify the SEC as soon as practicable of any irregularity, any breach 
of the provisions or covenants of the Trust Deed any contravention of the SEC Act, 
Directives issued thereunder, these Rules and Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange 
or any inconsistency between the disclosures in the Explanatory Memorandum the 
provisions or covenants of the Trust Deed, which in the trustee’s opinion, are not in 
the best interest of the unit holders.
Trustee’s obligations in 
relation to related party 
transactions and other 
obligations  
42 Where the real estate of the SL-REIT is occupied partly or wholly by related parties, 
the Trustee shall ensure that the terms and conditions of the tenancy agreements 
or lease agreements are entered into at arm’s length and under prevailing market 
conditions. In determining lease rental rates for related tenants or lessees, the Trustee 
shall be guided by the recommendation of at least one independent valuer.
43 It shall not be permitted to lease any property of the SL-REIT either to the Managing 
Company, its shareholders, its directors, its key management personnel or to the 
sponsor and related parties unless the full term and value of the agreement is covered 
by an on demand guarantee securing the payment of the lease rentals from a licensed 
Commercial Bank.
44 A Trustee shall carry out any instructions given by the Managing Company or its 
investment committee relating to acquisitions or disposals or the exercise of the rights 
attaching to a SL-REIT’s property. A trustee may refuse to effect any instruction 
given by the Managing Company in respect of a SL-REIT’s property if the trustee 
is of the opinion that the carrying out of such instruction shall materially devalue 
the SL-REIT property or be to the detriment of the minority unit holders.
45 In the event of a breach of the terms and conditions of the tenancy or lease agreements 
entered into in respect of the SL-REIT property, the trustee shall ensure that prompt 
measures are taken including and not limited to the institution of legal action to 
safeguard the interests of unit holders.
46 A Trustee shall ensure that the systems, procedures and processes employed by the 
Managing Company are adequate in terms of Part III.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
20A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Provision of Information 47 A Trustee shall submit or make available any statement, document, book, record and 
other information relating to the SL-REIT and the business of the trustee, as may be 
required by the SEC from time to time.
Holding of Units by 
Trustee
48 (1) A Trustee shall not hold units or other interests in the SL-REIT
  (2) A Trustee shall ensure that the Managing Company maintains proper accounting 
records and other records as necessary:-
(a) to enable a complete and accurate view of the SL-REIT to be formed; and
(b) to ensure that the SL-REIT is operated and managed in accordance with 
the Trust Deed, the Explanatory Memorandum, the SEC Act, Directives 
issued thereunder, these Rules, Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange and all 
applicable Laws relating to property.
Retirement of a Trustee 49  (1) A Trustee shall not retire except upon the appointment of a new Trustee whose 
appointment has been subject to the prior approval of the SEC and only if such 
retirement is in compliance with the Trust Deed. The retirement of the trustee shall 
take effect simultaneously with the appointment of the new Trustee.
(2) The SEC may where it is satisﬁ ed that:-
(a) for good and suf ﬁ cient reason a change in the trustee is desirable in the 
interest of unit holders; or 
(b) unit holders representing at least 75 per centum of the total units in issue 
excluding those held by the sponsor or strategic investor deliver to the SEC 
as the case may be, a written request that the Trustee be dismissed, the SEC 
may remove the Trustee of the SL-REIT and direct the Managing Company to 
appoint a new Trustee subject to the prior approval of the SEC. The removal 
of the Trustee who was dismissed shall take effect at the same time the new 
Trustee takes ofﬁ ce. 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
21A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART VI
Delegation or outsourcing 
of functions by the 
Managing Company
50 (1) A Managing Company may delegate or outsource certain of its functions to a 
competent or suitable third party or service provider with the prior approval of the 
SEC. Notwithstanding such delegation or outsourcing:-
(a) the Managing Company shall be fully liable to the unit holders and 
the SEC for the matters delegated or outsourced;
(b) the Managing Company shall ensure that adequate procedures are in 
place to monitor the conduct of the person to whom the functions are 
delegated or outsourced and ensure that the functions so delegated 
or outsourced are  performed in a proper and efﬁ cient manner; and
(c) the Managing Company shall ensure that there are controls in place 
to ensure that the person to whom the functions are delegated or 
outsourced comply with the Trust Deed, Explanatory Memorandum, 
the SEC Act, Directives issued there under, these Rules and Rules 
of a licensed stock exchange as may be relevant.
(2) A Managing Company shall ensure that the person to whom the functions are 
delegated or outsourced is suitable to undertake the particular functions so delegated 
or outsourced and ensure that such delegation or outsourcing is made to a person:-
(a) who is duly licensed  or authorized by a relevant supervisory or other 
authority, (where applicable);
(b) has adequate ﬁ nancial resources;
(c) has adequate experience and a proven track record in the performance 
of the functions delegated;
(d) has adequate and appropriate human resources, systems, procedures 
and processes in place to carry out the functions so delegated or 
outsourced (including  compliance with applicable requirements, 
policies and procedures on internal controls); and
(e) has taken an insurance policy adequate to cover the period of 
delegation or outsourcing.
(3) The service agreement between the Managing Company and the person to whom 
its functions are delegated or outsourced shall, amongst other things, contain clear 
provisions on–
(a) the services to be provided;
(b) the fees, remuneration, and other charges;
(c) any restriction or prohibition regarding the performance of the 
function to be delegated; 
(d) reporting requirements, including the line of reporting to the 
Managing Company or Trustee and means of evaluating the 
performance of the person to whom the functions have been delegated 
or outsourced; and
(e) indication of a timeframe within which the agreed scope of work is 
to be completed.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
22A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(4) Remuneration to the delegate or service provider shall be paid by the Managing 
Company and not be charged to the SL-REIT.
(5) Where a Managing Company appoints a delegate or service provider the 
agreement between the Managing Company and its delegatee or service provider 
shall include inter alia the power of the Managing Company, the Trustee or the 
SEC to examine and inspect the services provided by the delegatee or service 
provider to ensure that the delegate or service provider  is in compliance with 
the applicable requirements of the Trust Deed, Explanatory Memorandum, the 
SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder and these Rules.
(6) An of ﬁ cer of the delegatee or service provider (whether foreign or local) shall 
not hold ofﬁ ce as a member of:
(a) the investment committee of any SL-REIT; and
(b) a panel of advisors of any SL-REIT for which the delegate or service 
provider is  appointed to manage.
(7) Delegating or outsourcing shall not relieve a Managing Company from the 
responsibility for proper conduct of the delegated or outsourced activities and 
functions. 
(8) A Managing Company shall remain responsible for the actions and omissions of 
its delegatee or service provider as though they were its own actions or omissions.
For any avoidance of doubt the function of SL-REIT management shall not be delegated 
totally.
PART VII
Delegation of Functions 
by the Trustee 
51 (1) A Trustee may delegate the custodial function for the SL-REIT’s non real estate 
related assets with the prior approval of the SEC
(2) Where a custodial function of the Trustee is delegated the Trustee shall ensure 
that;
(a) it retains control of the SL-REIT’s property at all times; and
(b) there are adequate arrangements to prevent the delegatee from 
releasing the custody or control of the SL-REIT’s property without 
its prior consent
(3) The Trustee shall remain responsible for the functions delegated in like manner 
as the Managing Company is responsible for the functions of its delegatee. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
23A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART VIII
Oversight arrangements 52 (1) A Managing Company shall, in addition to the appointment of a Trustee, establish 
and maintain additional arrangements to provide oversight on the operation and 
management of the SL-REIT.
(2) A Managing Company shall implement and maintain the following arrangements:
(a) appoint an investment committee for the SL-REIT; and 
(b) appoint where applicable of a panel of advisors for a SL-REIT that is 
expressed to be managed in accordance with speciﬁ c principles
Investment committee 53 (1) The Investment Committee appointed by the Managing Company shall comprise–
(a) at least three individual members of whom at least two shall be independent 
whilst maintaining a minimum ratio of at least one-third independent 
members at all times.
(b) at least one member shall be a practicing lawyer with at least ten years 
experience inter alia in the Law relating to property including condominiums, 
conveyancing and the Law relating to land lord and tenant.
(c) at least one member shall be an engineer with minimum of ten years 
demonstrable expertise relating to property management preferably a Fellow 
of a professional body relating to engineering.
(2) No person shall be a member of an investment committee–
(a) if he is a member of an investment committee of a SL-REIT managed and 
administered by another Managing Company;
(b) if he is a director of another Managing Company; or
(c) if he is an of ﬁ cer of the delegatee that performs the fund management 
functions of the SL-REIT
Duties and 
Responsibilities of the 
Investment Committee of 
a SL-REIT
54 (1) An Investment Committee of a SL-REIT shall ensure that the SL-REIT is managed 
in accordance with–
(a) the SL-REIT’s investment objectives;
(b) the Trust deed;
(c) the Explanatory Memorandum ;
(d) the SEC Act, Directives issued there under ,these Rules the and Rules 
of a licensed Stock Exchange.
(e) the internal investment restrictions and policies; 
(f) all other Laws applicable to property; and
(g) acceptable investment management practices within the real 
estate investment trust industry.
(2) An Investment Committee’s duties and responsibilities shall include without 
limitation the following:
(a) the adoption of strategies to achieve the proper performance of 
the SL-REIT in accordance with the investment policies;

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
24A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(b) ensuring that the strategies adopted are properly and ef ﬁ ciently 
implemented by the Managing Company;
(c) actively monitoring, measuring and evaluating the performance 
of the Managing Company;
(d) where construction or major modifications are involved, 
reviewing the processes once in every three months and advising 
the trustee on the adherence to these Rules and  timely submission  
of deliverables;
(e) ensuring that the income from the lease agreements entered into 
with regard to the SL-REIT’s property are collected in a timely 
manner and if there are any defaults or delays in collecting the 
lease rental and other income of the SL-REIT’s property to advise 
the Trustee to take remedial action including the institution of 
legal action to recover any sums owing to the SL-REIT and to 
take any other ancillary or incidental action necessitated by such 
defaults; and
(f) ensuring that values of all lease rentals are in the best interest of 
the SL-REIT and either equal or above the valuer’s rent per square 
foot rate. Members in the investment committee shall approve 
any discounts to valuer’s rate and shall declare such arrangement 
is in the best interest of unit holders. 
(3) (a) The persons constituting the Investment Committee shall not have been 
charged or concerned in any business practices which in the opinion of the SEC 
is fraudulent, unethical or inappropriate. 
(b) A person shall be disquali ﬁ ed from being a member of an Investment 
Committee or from serving in an Investment Committee if such person;
 (i) has been declared an undischarged bankrupt ;
 (ii) has been convicted by a competent court of law in Sri Lanka 
or outside Sri Lanka for fraud, dishonesty or any other offence 
punishable with imprisonment of one year or more;
(c) It shall be the responsibility of the Managing Company to assess the ability 
of the person to carry out the duties and responsibilities required of him as a 
member of the Investment Committee. 
(4) (a) Where any member of an Investment Committee becomes subject to any 
disqualiﬁ cation or becomes otherwise unﬁ t to hold such position, the Managing 
Company shall ensure that such member is removed or vacates his position in 
the Investment Committee with immediate effect.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
25A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(b) The Managing Company shall notify the SEC and the Trustee immediately 
in the event a member of the Investment Committee becomes disqualiﬁ ed and 
is no longer suitable to hold such position.
(5) A member of the Investment Committee shall not be a member of a committee 
of any other SL-REIT or unit trust or hold any position that shall be deemed or 
seem to create a conﬂ ict of interest.
(6) A person before accepting an appointment as a member of an investment 
committee to a SL-REIT shall swear or afﬁ rm by way of an afﬁ davit declaring 
that he is not disqualiﬁ ed under any of the criteria mentioned above and has no 
interest in the SL-REIT either directly or indirectly and such af ﬁ davit shall be 
submitted to the SEC prior to accepting such position.
PART IX
Investments of the SL-
REIT
55 (1) The Managing Company shall ensure that the property of the SL-REIT shall be 
relevant and consistent with the investment objective of the SL-REIT.
(2) All necessary steps shall be taken to ensure that the property of the SL-REIT 
provides a prudent spread of risks.
Dealings in the SL-REIT’s 
Property
56 (1) The Managing Company shall ensure that all dealings in the SL-REIT’s property 
shall be appropriate to the SL-REIT and consistent with–
(a) the Trust deed;
(b) the Explanatory Memorandum;
(c) the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, these Rules,  Rules of 
a licensed Stock Exchange and all other applicable Laws relating 
Property; and
(d) acceptable practices within the real estate investment trust industry.
(2) A Managing Company shall–
(a) notify the trustee in writing and keep the Trustee updated on any proposal 
relating to acquisitions or disposals of real estate;
(b) notify the Trustee in writing of any acquisition or disposal of real estate-
related assets and non-real estate-related assets within one business day 
after which the acquisition or disposal was effected;
(c) ensure that the SL-REIT’s property has adequate proof of valid title or 
ownership to allow proper custodial arrangements to be made; 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
26A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(d) cancel a transaction or make a corresponding acquisition or disposal 
at its own expense to secure restoration of the previous position where 
the Trustee conveys an opinion that a particular acquisition or disposal 
exceeds the powers conferred on it, or is otherwise contrary to the 
interests of the unit holders
(e) ensure that all adequate insurance policies are in force; and
(f) notify the Trustee in the event of a default by any lease holder or tenant 
occupying the buildings owned or leased by the SL-REIT and advice 
the trustee to take appropriate action including the institution of legal 
action in a timely manner to rectify matters or to minimize losses to the 
SL-REIT.
Permitted Investments 57 (1) A SL- REIT shall only invest in the following:
(a) Real estates; up to a maximum of 80% of the SL-REIT’s value; 
and
(b) The balance 20% of the SL-REIT shall only be invested in 
Government Securities and or in Cash or Near Cash. 
(c) A SL-REIT’s property may consist of real estate-related assets and 
non-real estate-related assets
(d) The maximum amount to be invested in real estate may exceed 80% 
with the prior approval of the SEC
(2) The Managing Company shall ensure that the investment limits and restrictions 
set out herein are complied with at all times based on the latest value of the 
SL-REIT.
(3) In determining compliance with the authorized investments and their limits any 
accrued entitlement on the investments of the SL-REIT may be excluded. The 
entitlement shall not be exercised in the event the exercise results in a breach 
of any limit or restriction.
(4) It shall be the duty of the Managing Company to take all steps necessary to 
rectify the breach within a time frame of not more than three months.
(5) A ﬁ ve percent allowance in excess of any limit or restriction imposed under 
these Rules shall be permitted where the limit or restriction is breached through 
an appreciation or depreciation of the NA V of the SL-REIT.
(6) The Managing Company shall not in the event an investment limit is breached 
make any further acquisitions until steps have been taken to rectify the breach.
(7) The Managing Company shall ensure that the investment limits and restrictions 
are complied with at all times based on the most up-to-date value of the SL-
REIT. 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
27A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Acquisition of Property 58 (1) A Managing Company shall ensure that the property to be acquired:-
(a) has good prospects of future  net rental income of reasonable levels;
(b) is competitive and located within suitable areas, as evidenced by 
competent  market studies analysis; 
(c) has good potential to secure lessees and of sale to prospective buyers;
(d) that any capital expenditure to be incurred to enhance the property would 
not materially affect the yield to unit holders; 
(e) that the acquisition would be able to yield a reasonable return within a 
reasonable period of time;
(f) major modi ﬁ cation shall mean modiﬁ cations of the value not exceeding 
25% of the value of the building in terms of the latest valuation;
(g) in the event of any subsequent acquisition not covered in the Explanatory 
Memorandum, the Managing Company shall disclose to the market 
via a stock exchange filing,  a feasibility report on the proposed 
acquisitions which inter-alia shall cover, information relating to the title 
of the property, ﬁ nancing the purchase, estimated time to complete (if 
applicable) and future prospects of the property;
(h) any payments for the acquisition of the property shall be made after 
obtaining adequate title insurance as recommended by the investment 
committee;
(i) any payments by the SL-REIT to the contractor shall not be made unless 
a security in an equivalent value of the estimated approved cost has been 
submitted by the contractor to the Trustee of the SL-REIT;
(j) any payments by the SL-REIT to construction contractors shall be subject 
to adequate retention as advised by the investment committee but shall 
not be less than 10% of the estimated cost. Release of retention shall be 
subject to the approval of the investment committee;
(k) The property so acquired shall be ;
(i) in a fully completed condition, 
(ii) partially or fully leased out and 
(iii) generating income to meet the applicable thresholds speciﬁ ed 
by the SEC from time to time
(l) shall be a property with buildings standing thereon which are fully 
completed and are partly or fully leased and generating an income. The 
applicable thresholds shall be determined by the SEC from time to time.
(2) For leasehold real estates, a Managing Company shall ensure that–
(a) the consent of the relevant authority to transfer the lease has been obtained 
before the SL-REIT’S Explanatory Memorandum is approved  by the SEC, 
or prior to the acquisition of the leasehold property; and
(b) The lease shall be a registered lease.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
28A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Disposal of Property 59 Where the value of the property to be disposed of, exceeds 50% of the SL-REIT’s 
total asset value, the disposal shall be announced to the market fourteen (14) days 
prior to the unit holders’ meeting. The unit holders shall approve the disposal by way 
of an ordinary resolution, except where the disposal is for the purpose of terminating 
or winding up the SL-REIT, in which event the resolution shall be passed by not 
less than 75% of the unit holders present and voting.
Provided however if a breach of the ratio provided in Rule 59 occurs as a result of 
a disposal exceeding 50% of the total asset value of the SL-REIT, the Managing 
Company shall ensure compliance with Rule 59 within a period of three months from 
the date of disposal if the SL-REIT is not to be wound up or liquidated. 
If the Managing Company fails to comply with Rule 59 the Managing Company shall 
wind up or liquidate the SL-REIT at the Managing Company’s cost with prior notice 
to the Trustee, the SEC and the licensed Stock Exchange on which the SL-REIT is 
listed. In such event the distribution of proceeds on liquidation to unit holders shall 
take precedence over the management fees and any other fee chargeable by the 
Managing Company and the Trustee.
Acquisition and Disposal 
Price
60 (1) A SL-REIT shall not acquire property at a premium of beyond 10% of the value 
assessed in a valuation report obtained six months immediately prior or the latest 
available valuation report whichever is nearer to the date of acquisition, provided 
that the value has not been revised. 
(2) A SL-REIT shall not dispose of real estates at a discount less than 10% of the 
value assessed in a valuation report obtained six months or the latest whichever 
is nearer to the date of the resolution of the unit holders.
(3) Part selling of SL-REIT property shall be allowed subject to the cancellation or 
reduction of units upon full settlement of the agreed consideration unless the 
unit holders have given prior consent to reinvest the sale proceeds in accordance 
with the Trust Deed and permitted investments.
Borrowings 61 (1) A SL-REIT may use borrowings to acquire real estates, and for capital expenditure 
purposes subject to a maximum of 30% of the NA V of the SL-REIT.
(2) A SL-REIT may only borrow through the issuance of listed debentures or 
loans. When obtaining loans it shall not offer any of the SL-REIT’s property 
as collateral. 
(3) For the purposes of this part all provisions in relation to the Construction 
Contractor shall be as speciﬁ ed in these Rules.
Prohibited Activities 62 A Managing Company shall not -
(a) grant loans or provide any other credit facility to any person using the assets 
of a SL-REIT under its management;
(b) undertake or carryout  any activity that is in violation of the Trust Deed;
(c) permit or allow the carrying out of any illegal or unauthorized activity using 
the property of a SL-REIT

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
29A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART X
Valuation 63  A Managing Company shall ensure that a fair and accurate valuation of all assets 
and liabilities of the SL-REIT is conducted.
Appointment of a Valuer 64 (1) All valuations and revaluations of real estates shall be conducted by an 
independent valuer duly appointed by the Trustee.
(2) The Trustee shall only appoint a valuer who is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Valuers of Sri Lanka (IVSL) or is a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) with a minimum of ten years experience of valuing similar 
property or the Government Chief Valuer in the case of a state owned entity. 
(3) (a) A valuer shall only conduct up to two consecutive valuations of any particular 
real estate of a SL-REIT. 
(b) Subject to the approval of the Trustee, however it shall not be prohibited for 
the same valuer to conduct more valuations for a further period of two years, if 
the real estates of the SL-REIT under valuation did not constitute a part of the 
previous valuations carried out by the same valuer.  
Valuation and Revaluation 
of Real Estate
65 (1) A valuation shall be carried out on all real estates to be acquired and disposed 
of by a SL-REIT.
(2) (a) A revaluation of all the real estates in the SL-REIT’s investment portfolio 
shall be carried out twice a year by a competent and independent valuer of 
which at least one valuation shall be subject to the review of a panel of valuers 
as approved by the SEC.  However, this shall not preclude valuations being 
carried out during the interim period.
(b) Any valuation carried out for the SL-REIT shall be shared with the Stock 
Exchange on which the SL-REIT is listed for the timely information of investors. 
Such valuation shall disclose  the leasing rate per square foot of the property 
which was considered by the valuer for the  valuation.
(3) A Trustee may, at any time on its own accord, appoint a valuer to conduct a 
valuation of the real estates owned by a SL-REIT.
(4) The valuations referred to above shall be disclosed to the Stock Exchange 
on which the SL-REIT is listed on the ﬁ rst market day immediately after the 
submission of the valuation report by the valuer to the Managing Company 
upon completion of such report.
Valuation Report 66 (1) The appointed valuer shall, for each valuation of a real estate prepare a valuation 
report to be given to the Managing Company and Trustee.
(2) The valuation report shall comply with all valuation standards and standards 
of evidence acceptable to global best practices or standards as required by the 
SEC.
(3) The valuation report shall - 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
30A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(a) be prepared in accordance with the applicable valuation standards;
(b) be prepared within a period of six months immediately preceding the 
signing of the deed of sale or the lease agreement as the case may be or the 
date of the balance sheet of the SL-REIT of the relevant year, whichever 
is later; 
(c) actual and expected lease rental per square foot of the buildings standing 
on the property of the SL-REIT; and 
(d) submitted to the SEC–
 (i) within one month from the date of the deed of sale or the 
lease  agreement as the case may be; or
 (ii) together with the annual report of the SL-REIT in the case 
of a revaluation.
(4) Where there has been a change in the value of the real estates, the Trustee shall 
ensure that the appointed valuer makes the necessary adjustments in the valuation 
report
Regulatory Parameters on 
Valuation of Real Estates
67 (1) Where a property is the subject of an acquisition–
(a) as part of the establishment of a new SL-REIT; or
(b) which has been ﬁ nanced, or reﬁ nanced within one year of establishment, 
through the issuance of new units, the value of the real estate shall require 
approval by the Trustee. 
(2) The SEC shall have the right to obtain an independent valuation from a valuer 
appointed by the SEC, if the SEC is of the opinion that the valuation of the real 
estate carried out in terms of paragraph (1) is unacceptable for any reason. In 
such event the fees and costs incurred shall be borne by the Managing Company.
(3) Valuations of the SL-REIT’s property shall be based on processes that are 
consistently applied, and lead to objective and veriﬁ able conclusions. Valuations 
shall be disclosed to the stock exchange on which the SL-REIT is listed forthwith. 
The due dates for valuations to be carried out shall be clearly disclosed in the 
Explanatory Memorandum and shall not exceed an interval of six calendar 
months from each valuation date.
(4) Upon receipt of the valuation report, the Managing Company shall notify the 
Trustee immediately of the NA V per unit of the SL-REIT.
Announcement or 
Publication of the NA V 
per Unit of a SL-REIT
68 The Managing Company shall disclose the NA V per unit of the SL-REIT to the 
Stock Exchange on which the SL-REIT is listed on a quarterly basis

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
31A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART XI
Management Fee and 
Trustee Fee
69 (1) A Managing Company shall only be remunerated by way of fees charged to the 
SL-REIT and such fees shall be limited to:-
(a) Front end fee  – to be disclosed as a percentage of the value of the                       
SL-REIT at cost
(b) Annual fee – to be disclosed as a maximum percentage of the value of the 
SL-REIT and a maximum percentage of assets under management of the 
SL-REIT upon completion and achieving projected lease rental yields. No 
annual fee shall be payable after third year until the major modiﬁ cations 
to the buildings are completed and projected yields for the applicable real 
estate property are achieved.
(c) Performance fee on lease rentals - to be disclosed as a maximum 
percentage of lease income (after providing for doubtful debts and 
writing off bad debts) after occupancy exceeds 80% of total ﬂ oor area 
and all classes have surpassed any other thresholds indicated in the 
Explanatory Memorandum (applicable only to lease installments collected 
and outstanding invoices shall not be considered). The above mentioned 
performance fee calculation formula shall be clearly included in the 
Explanatory Memorandum. 
Performance fee calculation shall only be incorporated in to the formula 
for calculating the performance fee only upon completion of any major 
modiﬁ cation and upon successfully surpassing the criteria prede ﬁ ned in 
the Explanatory Memorandum. In any event total of all fees paid shall 
factor in the percentage of total ﬂ oor areas “not generating an income” 
and such percentage shall be used to discount the total performance fees 
payable other than front end fees. 
The Managing Company may propose other methods of calculating a 
performance fee which shall require the prior approval of the SEC.
(d) Benchmark Performance fee:  to be disclosed as realized capital gain 
over and above a market index of the stock exchange on which the                              
SL-REIT is listed + maximum of 2%. (the market index shall be factored 
on the date of realization of the proposed independent benchmark as 
deﬁ ned in the Explanatory Memorandum).
Provided however that all such fees enumerated above shall not exceed 4% of the total 
value of the SL-REIT.
(2) The fees shall be charged to the SL-REIT only if permitted by the Trust Deed 
and are clearly disclosed in the Explanatory Memorandum. Trustee fees shall 
be disclosed in the Explanatory Memorandum.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
32A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Remuneration of the 
Managing Company
70 (1) A Managing Company shall specify a management fee that is reasonable and 
which is approved by the Trustee considering–
(a) the duties and responsibilities of the Managing Company;
(b) the interests of unit holders;
(c) the nature and extent of the services provided by the Managing Company;
(d) the size and composition of the property of the SL-REIT;
(e) the success of the Managing Company in meeting the SL-REIT’s 
investment objective;
(f) the need to maximize returns to unit holders; and
(g) the maximum rate stipulated in the Trust Deed.
(2) If at any time the Trustee is of the opinion that the management fee charged to 
the SL-REIT is unreasonably high, the Trustee shall take such action, which may 
include but is not limited to convening a unit holders’ meeting, to have the fee 
approved as being commensurate with the services provided by the Managing 
Company.
Remuneration of Trustee 71 The remuneration paid to the Trustee shall be fair and reasonable, considering–
(a) the duties and responsibilities of the Trustee;
(b) the interests of the unit holders;
(c) the maximum rate stipulated in the deed; and
(d) the size and composition of the property of the SL-REIT
Expenses of the SL-REIT 72 (1) Only expenses (or part thereof) directly related and necessary in operating and 
administering a SL-REIT shall be paid out of fund of the SL-REIT. These shall 
include the following:-
(a) Maintenance of property owned by or leased to the SL-REIT;
(b) Taxes and other duties charged on the fund of the SL-REIT or its 
underlying  assets by the Government and other authorities;
(c) Fees and other expenses incurred by the auditor appointed for the 
SL-REIT;
(d) Fees for the valuations carried out by independent valuers of any 
investment of the SL-REIT for the beneﬁ t of the SL-REIT;
(e) Costs incurred for the amendment of the Trust Deed, Title Deeds or 
lease agreements as the case may be of the SL-REIT other than those 
for the beneﬁ t of the Managing Company or Trustee;
(f) Costs incurred for any meeting of the unit holders other than those 
convened for the beneﬁ t of the Managing Company or Trustee; 
(g) Expenses for listing the SL-REIT on a licensed Stock Exchange;

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
33A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(h) Legal expenses incurred to protect the interests of unit holders as 
approved by the Trustee other than legal expenses caused due to the 
negligence of the Managing Company or the Trustee as determined 
by the SEC. In the event of such negligence the negligent party shall 
bear the cost of the legal expense; and 
(i) Any other expenses authorized by the SEC
(2) A Trustee may be reimbursed by the SL-REIT for any expenses appropriately 
incurred in the performance of its duties and responsibilities as a Trustee with 
the approval of the SEC.
PART XII
Price of a Unit 73 (1) During the initial offer period a unit shall be sold at the initial price determined 
by the Managing Company. Any creation or cancellation of units shall also be at the 
initial price
(2) Where units are offered to related parties in conjunction with the initial public 
offering, the price of the units must be set at least at the issue price to the public.
(3) Upon the listing of a SL-REIT on a stock exchange, the unit shall be traded at 
the prices quoted on the exchange.
(4) Valuation of unit prices shall be conﬁ rmed by an independent ﬁ rm of chartered 
accountants 
Dealing in Units 74 Any dealing in units shall comply with the SEC Act, Directives issued there under, 
these Rules and the Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange on which the SL-REIT is 
listed where applicable.
Suspension of Dealing in 
Units
75 Suspension of dealing in units shall only be done in compliance with these Rules 
and the Listing Rules of a Stock Exchange on which the SL-REIT is listed or with 
any Directives issued by the SEC where relevant.
Creation and Cancellation 
of Units
76 (1) A Managing Company shall instruct the Trustee in writing to create or cancel 
units of a SL-REIT fund stating the number of units to be created or cancelled, and 
pay or receive cash to or from the Trustee for the transaction. Such instructions to the 
Trustee shall contain a report from a ﬁ rm of chartered accountants on the accuracy 
of calculation and details of creation or cancellation of units.
(2) A T rustee shall create or cancel units immediately on receipt of, and in 
accordance with, the instructions given by the Managing Company.
(3) A Managing Company shall pay the Trustee the value of units created within 
ten days of giving instructions to the Trustee to create units.
(4) A Managing Company shall not, when giving instructions to the Trustee for 
the creation or cancellation of units, do or omit to do anything which would 
confer on itself or a delegate or service provider a bene ﬁ t at the expense of a 
unit holder or a potential unit holder.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
34A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(5) Any instructions for the creation or cancellation of units given by the Managing 
Company may be modiﬁ ed only if the Trustee agrees and has taken reasonable 
care to determine that–
(a) the modi ﬁ cation corrects an error in the instruction; and
(b) the error is an isolated one. 
(6) Any error referred to in this Rule shall be corrected within the payment period 
speciﬁ ed in paragraph 3 of this Rule.
(7) A Trustee shall pay the unit holder the value of units cancelled within ten days 
of receiving instructions from the Managing Company to cancel units unless 
the SL-REIT lacks suf ﬁ cient cash or liquid assets, and the Trustee considers 
that payment within ten days is not in the best interests of unit holders.
(8) Where permitted, the creation and cancellation of units shall be at NA V per 
unit of the SL-REIT as at the next valuation point after instructions from the 
Managing Company is received by the Trustee.
Trustee May Refuse to 
Create or Cancel Units
77 Notwithstanding any other provision contained in these Rules, a Trustee may by 
notice to the Managing Company refuse to–
(a) create units;
(b) cancel units; or
(c) create or cancel units in the number instructed by the Managing Company,
Where the Trustee considers that the creation or cancellation is not in the best interests 
of unit holders or it would result in a breach of the trust deed, the SEC Act, Directives 
issued thereunder, these Rules and the Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange.
PART XIII
Public offers and listings 78 The requirements for the public offer and primary listing of a SL-REIT on an exchange 
licensed by the SEC shall be as follows:-
(a) All REITs shall be listed within three months of obtaining approval from the 
SEC.
(b) The SL-REIT shall offer at least 20% of its units to the public at the time of 
listing 
(c) The SL-REIT shall have a minimum of 100 unit holders at the time of listing.
(d) In order to be eligible to claim any applicable tax beneﬁ ts, the SL-REIT shall 
maintain a minimum of 50 unit holders at all times. 
Methods of Issuing Units 79 (1) Units of the SL-REIT of the same class shall have the same rights attached to 
them. No units shall have any preferential treatment over others except other than 
as provided for in these Rules.
(2) Wherever practicable the methods of issuing units selected shall enable the                  
SL-REIT to have a broad base of unit holders and comply with the public 
holding requirement of the exchange.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
35A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(3) The Managing Company shall determine the method of issuing units to the 
public unless otherwise directed by the SEC in the interests of the securities 
market and the public. In such event the Managing Company shall comply with 
the directions given by the SEC in respect of the method of issuing units to the 
public. 
(4) A Managing Company shall issue only one class of units in a SL-REIT. If  any 
other classes of units are to be issued, the Managing Company shall obtain the 
prior approval of the Trustee and the SEC.
(5) In a public issue the number of units issued shall not exceed 70% of the NA V 
of the SL-REIT. The units issued to the public shall constitute at least 20% of 
the approved fund size for a SL-REIT with total minimum asset value of LKR 
500 million.
(6) At the time of making an application to list a SL-REIT on a licensed Stock 
Exchange the information pertaining to the bene ﬁ cial ownership of the units 
shall be submitted to the exchange except in the following instances:-
(a) When the unit holder is a statutory institution managing funds belonging 
to contributors or investors who are members of the public where the 
number of beneﬁ ciaries are 200 or more; and
(b) Unit trust funds or other investment funds approved by the SEC, where 
there are 200 or more beneﬁ ciaries.
(7) The aggregate amount of units which may be offered to related parties during 
an IPO shall not be more than10% of the approved size of the SL-REIT.
(8) In the event of a con ﬂ ict between the listing Rules and these Rules, these Rules 
shall prevail.
(9) Lock in
A sponsor’s holding of 30% or more of the units issued shall be barred   from being 
traded through the secondary market of a stock exchange at all times other than in 
the following instances:-
(a) In the event the sponsor exits from the SL-REIT in full he shall ensure 
that the strategic investor shall hold a minimum of 30% of the units in 
issue and not exceed 80% of the total units in issue.
(b) In the event the sponsor exits from the SL-REIT in part the sponsor shall 
ensure that the sponsor and strategic investor in aggregate shall hold a 
minimum of 30% of the units and not exceeding 80% of the total units 
in issue.
(c) Where a sponsor disposes the minimum holding of 30% in full or in part 
to an identiﬁ ed strategic investor, the Managing Company shall make an 
announcement to the Stock Exchange on which the SL-REIT is listed 
on the following market day indicating at minimum the details of the 
new strategic investor and the unit price at which the transaction was 
concluded.
(10) Any issuance of new units shall only be made with the prior approval of the 
SEC.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
36A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Further Issue of Units 
subsequent to a Listing 
80 Where the unit holders of a SL-REIT have by way of a resolution at a general meeting, 
given a general mandate to the Managing Company to issue further units, any such 
issue under such general mandate shall comply with the following requirements:
(a) The number of units to be issued, when aggregated with the number of units 
issued during the preceding 24 months, shall not exceed 20% of the approved 
size of the SL-REIT unless prior approval of the SEC has been obtained by 
the Managing Company.
(b) Further units shall not be issued at a discount to the weighted average market 
price of the units calculated for the 30 market days immediately preceding 
the date of ﬁ xing the price.
(c) Any further units of the SL-REIT issued shall be in the same class as units 
of the initial issue and no preferential rights shall attach to any units issued 
after the initial offer other than as provided in these Rules. 
Rights Issue of units 81 Rights issue of units shall be allowed subject to the unit holders’ status quo being 
maintained in relation to the holding percentage at the time of issue. 
Issues of Units to ﬁ nance 
acquisitions of property to 
the SL-REIT
82 The Managing Company shall make its observations on the reasonableness of the 
terms and conditions of an intended acquisition of property including the purchase 
price. Such observations shall be made in the Explanatory Memorandum which shall 
be accompanied by the opinion of a competent and independent valuer’s opinion 
regarding the price.
Issue of Debentures to 
ﬁ nance acquisitions of 
property to the SL-REIT
83 (1) A Managing Company shall comply with rules of a Stock Exchange on which a 
SL-REIT is listed when issuing debentures to ﬁ nance acquisition of property for a 
SL-REIT.
(2) The amount raised by the issue of debentures shall not exceed 30% of the NA V 
calculated for the most recent quarterly ﬁ nancial statements disclosed to the 
Stock Exchange.
Issue of Bonus Units 84 Where there is a surplus of funds in a SL-REIT pursuant to a revaluation of the 
property  owned by such REIT, the Managing Company may utilize such surplus 
for an issue of bonus units provided the following conditions are satisﬁ ed:-
(a) The value of such bonus units shall not exceed 90% of such surplus;
(b) Such bonus units shall be issued only once in a ﬁ nancial year;
(c) The SL-REIT has acquired the property by way of an outright purchase 
with freehold title; and
(d) Where the property is held on a lease, any value appreciation of the land 
shall not be considered for the issue of bonus units.
 
Underwriting 85 If the SL-REIT is created for a single asset then the initial public offering shall be 
underwritten by an underwriter registered with the SEC for 80% of the subscription.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
37A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART XIV
Size of a SL-REIT 86 (1) The minimum value of a SL-REIT at the time of listing shall be LKR 500 Million.
(2) In determining the size of a SL-REIT, a Managing Company shall take into 
account its resources, expertise, experience, and overall capacity to carry out 
its duties in accordance with–
(a) the Trust Deed;
(b) the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder, these Rules and Rules of a 
licensed Stock Exchange on which the SL-REIT is to be listed; and 
(c) internationally or globally acceptable and ef ﬁ cacious business practices 
pertaining to the management of Real Estate Investment Trusts.
Register 87 The Central Depository of the Stock Exchange on which a SL-REIT is listed shall 
maintain a register of unit holders and such register shall contain details of unit 
holders updated as at the end of the last trading day. Entry of a person’s name in 
such register maintained by the Central Depository shall be the best evidence of the 
fact that the person is a Unit Holder of such SL-REIT.
Distribution of Income 88 (1) Of the distributable income, 90% shall be distributed. Distributions shall only 
be made from collected and realized gains or realized income unless approval of 
the unit holders excluding the sponsor, strategic investor and any party acting in 
concert with them, have been obtained by way of a resolution to decline to receive 
the distributable income in a given year or circumstance. Any deviation from the 
dividend distributions which is less than 90% shall result in disentitlement to any 
tax beneﬁ ts available to Unit Trusts.
(2) Distribution of income to the unit holders of a SL-REIT shall be made after the 
Managing Company has taken into consideration the following:
(a) Total returns for the period;
(b) Cash ﬂ ow for distribution;
(c) Stability and sustainability of distribution of income;
(d) Solvency Certi ﬁ cate obtained from a ﬁ rm of chartered accountants; 
and
(e) The investment objective and distribution policy of the SL-REIT as 
disclosed in the Explanatory Memorandum.
(3) Where a distribution is made, the Managing Company shall send to every unit 
holder a statement setting out relevant information.
Meetings of Unit Holders 89 (1) The Managing Company and Trustee may convene a meeting of the unit holders 
at any time in addition to any meeting made mandatory under these Rules.
(2) Unit holders may also convene a meeting with prior notice to the Managing 
Company and the Trustee to discuss unresolved matters. In order to convene 
such a meeting at least 50 unit holders shall give their consent to convene the 
meeting and the Trustee shall be present at such meeting.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
38A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Notice of Meetings 90 (1) A Managing Company or Trustee may convene a unit holders’ meeting on any 
date, subject to the following:-
(a) written notice of at least 21 calendar days prior to the meeting has been 
given to unit holders;
(b) specifying in the notice, the date, venue and time of the meeting and the 
resolutions proposed; and
(c) publishing of an advertisement giving notice of the unit holder’s meeting 
in all three languages in daily newspapers with a wide circulation.
(2) Where there has been a breach of the provisions of the Trust Deed by the 
Managing Company, the Trustee may convene a meeting of unit holders and 
where necessary by giving  shorter period of notice considering the urgency of 
the matter.
(3) When a meeting is called by the unit holders, for the purpose of passing a 
resolution the Managing Company shall convene the meeting within 21 days 
of receiving the request from the unit holders.
Chairman of unit holders 
meetings
91 A meeting of unit holders’ shall be chaired by a member of the trustee or by a person 
appointed by the Trustee other than a unit holder or a director of the Managing 
Company.
Quorum 92 (1) The quorum for a meeting of unit holders shall be ﬁ fty one percent of the total 
number of unit holders present by way of proxy or attending in person.
(2) If after a reasonable time from the start of the meeting, a quorum is not present, 
the meeting–
(a) if convened at the request of the unit holders shall be dissolved; and
(b) in any other case shall stand adjourned to a date and time to be held at a 
place determined by the Chairman which is seven or more days after the 
date of the convened meeting  
Resolutions 93 (1) Except where expressly provided in these Rules any resolution of unit holders 
shall be passed by a simple majority.
(2) Any resolution to alter the objectives of the SL-REIT shall only be passed by 
75% of the registered unit holders as appearing as of the date of the notice of 
the resolution.
Voting Rights 94 (1) V oting shall take place on a show of hands by every unit holder who is present 
in person or by proxy.
(2) A poll may be demanded on any resolution. In such instance every unit holder 
who is present shall have one vote per each unit held
(3) In the case of joint unit holders, only one of the joint unit holders shall be allowed 
to attend a meeting of unit holders and such person shall be entitled to one vote 
only. At a poll the joint unit holders shall be entitled to one vote per each unit 
held jointly.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
39A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(4) A Managing Company or its nominees shall not exercise the voting rights for 
the units it holds in aggregate with its nominees at any unit holders’ meeting, 
regardless of the party who requested for the meeting and the matter or matters 
that are laid before the meeting.
(5) Related parties of the Managing Company shall not vote or be counted for the 
quorum at a meeting of unit holders if they have an interest in the outcome of a 
resolution tabled for approval which is different from the interests of other unit 
holders.
Right to Demand a Poll 95 (1) A resolution put to the vote at a unit holders’ meeting shall be determined by a 
show of  hands unless a poll is demanded before or immediately after any resolution 
is tabled by–
(a) the Chairman;
(b) the Trustee;
(c) the Managing Company; or
(d) unit holders present (or represented by proxy) who hold between them 
not less than one-tenth of the total number of units in issue.
(2) Unless a poll is demanded, a declaration by the chairman as to the result of the 
resolution is conclusive evidence of the passing or defeat of such resolution.
(3) A Managing Company shall not exercise the voting rights for the units it or its 
nominees hold at any unit holders’ meeting.
(4) A copy of a resolution passed at a unit holders meeting shall be submitted to the 
SEC, CSE and the Trustee.
Proxies 96 (1) A unit holder may appoint another person to attend a unit holders’ meeting and 
vote in the unit holder’s place.
(2) Every notice calling a unit holders’ meeting shall contain a statement that a unit 
holder is entitled to attend and vote, or may appoint a proxy.
(3) The document appointing a proxy shall be deposited to reach the of ﬁ ce of the 
Managing Company not less than 48 hours before the meeting or adjourned 
meeting.
Adjournment and Minutes 97 A Managing Company shall ensure that–
(a) the minutes of all resolutions and proceedings at every unit holders’ meeting 
shall be  recorded and preserved; and
(b) any minute recorded as speci ﬁ ed under sub paragraph (a) shall be signed by 
the Chairman of the unit holders’ meeting.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
40A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Terminating and Winding 
up of a SL-REIT
98 (1) A SL-REIT shall be terminated or wound up upon the occurrence of any of the 
following events:-
(a) The license granted by the SEC to operate a SL-REIT is cancelled;
(b) A special resolution is passed at a unit holders’ meeting to terminate or 
wind up the SL-REIT with 75% of unit holders present and voting in favor 
of the resolution; or
(c) When the SL-REIT has completed its tenure or as speciﬁ ed in the trust deed 
and the Explanatory Memorandum where applicable
(2) In any of above circumstances, the Trustee shall–
(a) Liquidate all the SL-REIT’s assets remaining in its custody; and
(b) after paying all liabilities or retaining adequate amounts to meet such 
liabilities and the cost of winding up, distribute to unit holders the net cash 
proceeds available for the purpose of such distribution in proportion to the 
number of units held by the unit holders respectively in accordance with 
these Rules; 
(3) The Managing Company and Trustee shall within one market day subsequent 
to the triggering of any of the events mentioned above take steps to-
(a) disclose to the stock exchange by way of an announcement 
(b) inform the  unit holders of the termination and or winding up of the SL-REIT 
by way of a circular. This requirement shall not apply where the unit holders 
have already approved a resolution for the termination and or winding up 
of a SL-REIT; and
(c) publish a notice in all three languages on the termination or winding up of 
the SL-REIT in three newspapers having a wide circulation. 
(4) The Managing Company and Trustee shall notify the SEC in writing–
(a) upon the passing of a resolution to terminate or wind up the SL-REIT 
by the unit holders, or in any other circumstances leading to the 
termination or winding up of the SL-REIT; and
(b) upon the completion of the termination and/or winding up of the SL-
REIT.
(5) Where a SL-REIT is being terminated or wound up, the Trustee shall arrange for 
the auditor of the SL-REIT to conduct a ﬁ nal review and audit of the SL-REIT’s 
accounts.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
41A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART XV
Reporting Requirements 99 (1) A Managing Company shall prepare an annual report for the SL-REIT and 
shall issue audited ﬁ nancial statements and quarterly reports. The audited ﬁ nancial 
statements shall be prepared in compliance with the applicable Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards and audited in compliance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. The Annual 
Report and the quarterly ﬁ nancial statements shall be disclosed to the market in 
accordance with the listing requirements of the Stock Exchange on which the SL-
REIT is listed.
(2) If a Managing Company intends to change a SL-REITs ﬁ nancial year or interim 
ﬁ nancial period, the Managing Company shall obtain–
(a) a written con ﬁ rmation from the auditor of the SL-REIT stating 
that the change of the ﬁ nancial year or the period as the case 
may be would not result in any signi ﬁ cant distortion of the 
ﬁ nancial position of the SL-REIT; and
(b) the SEC’s prior approval before implementing such change.
Submission of Reports to 
the SEC
100 (1) The annual report of a SL-REIT and the annual report of the Managing Company 
shall be lodged with the SEC within three months of the end of the ﬁ nancial year.
(2) The quarterly report of the SL-REIT shall be submitted to the SEC within seven 
business days of the quarter following the end of the period of reporting.
(3) A SL-REIT’s quarterly report shall contain a declaration by the Compliance 
Ofﬁ cer responsible for all compliance matters that the SL-REIT’s quarterly 
report is complete, true and accurate to the best of his/her knowledge and 
belief and shall also include a conﬁ rmation of compliance with the regulatory 
requirements.
Submission of SL-REIT’s 
quarterly reports during 
termination or winding up
101 (1) When a SL-REIT is being terminated or wound up, a managing company shall 
continue to submit such SL-REIT’s quarterly report until the termination or winding 
up is completed.
(2) The Compliance Review Report shall be submitted to the SEC not later than 
seven business days from the date of submission of the SL-REIT’s quarterly 
report.
Contents of an Annual 
Report of a SL-REIT
102 An annual report of a SL-REIT shall include the following amongst others that may 
be speciﬁ cally required by the Managing Company:
(a) Information pertaining to the SL-REIT;
(b) Report on the performance of the SL-REIT;
(c) A report by the Managing Company;
(d) A report by the Trustee;
(e) A report by the valuer together with the NA V .
(f) Audited ﬁ nancial statements for the accounting period of the SL-REIT; 
(g) Auditor’s report on the SL-REIT.
(h) A report of the Investment committee 

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
42A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Audit 103 (1)  A Managing Company and Trustee shall ensure that the ﬁ nancial statements of 
the SL- REIT are audited annually by an auditor appointed by the trustee.
(2) A Trustee shall appoint an auditor for the SL-REIT who is independent of the 
Managing Company and the trustee.
(3) Where the SEC is of the opinion that the auditor appointed by the trustee is 
not suitable, or where an auditor has not been appointed, the SEC may direct 
the trustee to replace or appoint an auditor to the SL-REIT in accordance with 
these Rules.
(4) A Trustee may, at any time if it deems appropriate, remove the auditor of the 
SL-REIT and appoint another in its place. In addition the unit holders may, by 
way of an ordinary resolution request the Trustee to replace the auditor.
Co-operation with 
Auditors
104 (1) A Managing Company shall take reasonable steps to ensure that its employees–
(a) provide such assistance as the auditor reasonably requires to discharge 
its duties;
(b) give the auditor right of access at all reasonable times to relevant records 
and information;
(c) do not interfere with the auditor’s ability to discharge its duties;
(d) do not provide false or misleading information to the auditor; and
(e) report to the auditor any matter which to the knowledge of an employee 
may signiﬁ cantly affect the ﬁ nancial position of the SL-REIT.
(2) A Managing Company shall, in writing, require any person to whom the 
Managing Company has delegated or outsourced any function to co-operate 
with the SL-REIT’S auditor in accordance with the provisions of these Rules.
Corporate Governance 
Report
105 (1) A Managing Company shall adopt good corporate governance practices and best 
industry standards for all activities conducted in relation to the SL-REIT and any 
matter arising out of its listing or trading on a Stock Exchange. The valuer of the 
SL-REIT shall observe the best  practices and standard
(2) The chairman of the Managing Company shall by way of declaration con ﬁ rm 
that the corporate governance provisions in these Rules and the relevant listing 
Rules have been complied with. Any deviations therein shall be explained with 
a proposed plan to comply with such Rules within the next twelve months. 
Financial 
Statements and 
Other Reports 
of the Managing 
Company
106 (1)  A Managing Company of a SL-REIT shall prepare audited ﬁ nancial statements 
annually and unaudited ﬁ nancial statements monthly of the Managing Company. The 
unaudited ﬁ nancial statements of the Managing Company shall be signed by two 
Directors of the Managing Company and submitted to the SEC within two weeks 
from the end of the month of reporting.
(2) A Managing Company shall prepare a Compliance Review Report on a quarterly 
basis. The report shall be signed by two Directors of the Managing Company. 
In the event of any non-compliance the Managing Company shall provide an 
explanation for the said non-compliance and the action to be taken or taken to 
rectify same in the Compliance Review Report. 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
43A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART XVI
Application for a license 
to manage a SL-REIT to 
the SEC 
107 (1) An application to operate a SL-REIT shall be submitted in accordance with the 
requirements, terms and conditions stipulated under Part IV of the Schedule to the 
SEC Act and shall in addition comply with the requirements set out in these Rule.
(2) An application for a license to manage a SL-REIT shall be accompanied by:-
(a) all particulars relating to the issuance or offer of units of a real estate 
investment trust which the Managing Company is intending to manage 
including a draft Explanatory Memorandum;
(b) all particulars relating to the listing of units on a stock exchange;
(c) details of the Managing Company intending to manage a SL-REIT 
including details of Shareholders, Directors and Key Management Persons 
(d) details of the proposed Trustee including the draft Trust deed for the SL-
REIT prepared in accordance with these Rules; 
(e) all details of the property or properties to be acquired for the SL-REIT 
including details relating to the title of the property or properties; 
(f) documentary proof of all relevant approvals granted in respect of the  
buildings standing on the properties identi ﬁ ed for inclusion in the SL-
REIT  
(g) V aluation reports relating to the properties of the REIT (shall be submitted 
in accordance with the Valuation Guidelines applicable to REITs as 
approved by the SEC);
(h) report from a ﬁ rm of chartered accountants on the accuracy/reasonableness 
of unit price;
(i) audited ﬁ nancials of Managing Company for the last three years with 
unmodiﬁ ed opinion;
(j) information to demonstrate that the applicant has processes in place to 
safeguard the funds of the investing public or the unit holders;
(k) certi ﬁ ed copy of Business Registration; and
(l) a certi ﬁ cate or letter of assurance from a notary public who is a member 
of a reputed ﬁ rm of lawyers certifying the validity of the title to the 
properties or proposed properties that are to be owned by or leased to 
the SL-REIT.
(3) The SEC may, if the application complies with all the requirements set out in 
the SEC Act and these Rules. 
(a) grant a license to the applicant to manage and operate the SL-REIT 
subject to such terms and conditions as the SEC deems ﬁ t and subject 
to the payment of a license fee as required in terms of the SEC Act; and
(b) approve the proposed Trustee to act as the Trustee of the SL-REIT;or
(c)  reject the application if the SEC deems that the applicant or the 
application does not meet the requirements speciﬁ ed hereunder
(4) After obtaining the license from the SEC the Managing Company shall be 
required to obtain the prior approval of the SEC in the following instances:-
(a) appointment of a new Trustee.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
44A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(b) in case of reconstruction, amalgamation or any change in the shareholding 
of a Managing Company;
(c) appointment or change of construction contractor for the buildings standing 
on a SL-REIT’s property where the cost of such construction amounts to 
values over 10% of the SL-REIT’s NA V;
(d) appointment or change of property managers;
(e) appointment of new directors or for any other material change in the 
information provided to the SEC in its application for the license;
(f) amendments to the Trust Deed and any supplementary trust deeds of the 
SL-REIT; and
(g) amendments to the Explanatory Memorandum and supplementary 
memoranda of the SL-REIT.
Notiﬁ cations to an 
Exchange in which a 
REIT is listed
108 (1) A Managing Company shall forthwith disclose to the Stock Exchange on which a 
SL-REIT is listed the occurrence of any one or more of the following in addition to 
the disclosures required to be made under the listing rules of such Stock Exchange:-
(a) Appointment and resignation of directors of a Managing Company of a 
SL-REIT;
(b) Appointment and resignation of chief executive of ﬁ cer of the Managing 
Company;
(c) Appointment and resignation of any Members of an investment committee 
of a Managing Company of a SL-REIT; 
(d) Appointment of a delegate or service provider by a Managing Company 
in relation to its primary functions;
(e) Appointment or resignation of the property manager to mange a SL-REIT;
(f) Appointment and resignation of a property developer;
(g) Any acquisition of real estates for a SL-REIT;
(h) Any disposal of real estates of a SL-REIT;
(i) A resolution passed to terminate or wind up a SL-REIT; 
(j) The completion of the termination or winding up of a SL-REIT;
(k) Any matter materially affecting the SL-REIT’s income; and
(l) All other disclosures as may be required by the SEC or the stock exchange 
on which the SL-REIT is listed
Documents required to be 
ﬁ led with the SEC
109 (1) A Managing Company shall ﬁ le with the SEC the following:
(a) the annual report of the SL-REIT simultaneously with the releasing of 
such report to the Exchange;
(b) the annual report of the Managing Company;
(c) all interim reports of the SL-REIT; and
(d) copies of any notices issued or published after the approval of the SEC is 
obtained for the Explanatory Memorandum; and

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
45A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(e) certi ﬁ cate of assurance of clear title as to the real estate property belonging 
to the SL-REIT issued by a notary public having over ten years experience 
in conveyancing real estate with similar value, prior to a real estate property 
being acquired by or leased to a SL-REIT.
The documents speciﬁ ed in paragraphs (1) shall be submitted to the SEC by the 
following;
 (i) a Managing Company
 (ii) a Trustee where the application relates to the approval of the Trustee 
and appointment of a Company to act as a Trustee
(2) Documents which are unsatisfactory will be returned. The applicant including 
directors and/or sponsors, advisors, experts and any other person of a Managing 
Company accepting responsibility for all information and documents submitted 
to the SEC shall exercise due care and diligence in respect of the information 
submitted relating to or in connection with a SL-REIT. The information so 
provided shall be accurate as on the date of submission.

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
46A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
PART XVII
Document Constituting a 
SL-REIT
110 (1) The document constituting a SL-REIT established by way of a trust means the 
Trust Deed  
(2) Any provision contained in a Trust Deed referred to in paragraph (1) shall be 
void in so far as it would have the effect of exempting the Managing Company, 
the Trustee, or the auditor of the SL-REIT from any duty or function required 
under these Rules or of indemnifying any such person against liability for any 
failure to carry out such a duty or function.
(3) The Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall not contain any provision that:-
(a) con ﬂ icts with these Rules or any other applicable laws in Sri Lanka 
or 
(b) is prejudicial to the interests of the unit holders
(4) The Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall require its Managing Company and Trustees 
to be under a continuous duty to:-
(i) act in the best interests of the unit holders of the SL-REIT;
(ii) disclose to the SEC promptly any material information relating to 
the SL-REIT of which the SEC would reasonably expect notice to 
be given in a timely and accurate manner; and
(iii)  disclose to all the relevant parties to a SL-REIT information which 
is accurate in a timely manner in order that all parties to a SL-REIT 
may fulﬁ ll their obligations to unit holders as required by these Rules 
or any other applicable Law.
(5) The Managing Company of a SL-REIT shall make the Explanatory Memorandum 
and the Trust Deed of a SL-REIT under its operation, available in electronic 
format on its website and in hard copy for inspection during normal working 
hours at a physical address which is easily accessible to the public. 
(6) A Trust Deed for a SL- REIT shall in addition to the requirements of the Trust 
Ordinance contain such provisions, covenants, requirements, information and 
particulars speciﬁ ed by the SEC.
(7) The requirements stipulated herein are in addition to the requirements imposed 
on a Managing Company and a Trustee under the Law. The provisions of these 
Rules are in addition to and not in derogation of any other Law.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
47A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Minimum Contents for a 
Trust Deed
111 (1) A Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall contain at a minimum the following, in addition 
to any other information which the SEC may require to be included in the trust deed:-
(a) Name of the SL-REIT ;
(b) Participating Parties ;
(c) A statement to specify the participating parties such as the Managing 
Company and the Trustee;
(d) a statement to bind the Trustees and the Managing Company to the 
provisions of the Trust Deed and to authorize the Trustee to give 
instructions to the Managing Company as required by the terms of the 
Trust Deed;
(e) a provision that a unit holder of a SL-REIT is not liable to make any 
further payment after he has paid the purchase price of his units and 
that no further liability can be imposed on him in respect of the units 
which he holds; and
(f) a declaration that the assets of the SL-REIT are held by the Trustee on 
trust for the unit holders who shall hold such units pari-passu according 
to the number of units held by each unit holder.
Covenants of the 
Managing Company
112 A Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall specify the duties of a Managing Company, which 
are required by the SEC in terms of the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder and 
these Rules and shall include without limitation the following covenants:-
(a) that the SL-REIT has, at all times, an appointed Trustee;
(b) that payment to the trustee is made, within ten working days after 
receipt by the Managing Company, of any monies which, under the 
Trust Deed, is payable to the Trustee;
(c) not to sell any units to which the deed relates other than in accordance 
with these Rules or the listing Rules of a Stock Exchange on which 
the SL-REIT is listed;
(d) to specify the basis of the calculation of the NA V per unit of a SL-REIT;
(e) to make available to the Trustee all such information as the Trustee 
requires on all matters relating to the SL-REIT;
(f) to not exercise the voting rights with respect to the units it holds at any 
unit holders ‘meeting, regardless of the party who requested for and 
convened the meeting and the matter or matters that are laid before the 
unit holders; and
(g) to circulate the trustee’s report together with the annual report of the 
SL-REIT to all unit holders.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
48A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Covenants of the Trust 113 A Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall specify duties of the Trust which are required by 
the SEC Act, Directives issued thereunder and these Rules and shall include without 
limitation the following covenants:-
(a) That the SL-REIT shall at all times have a Managing  Company;
(b)  That all due diligence and care will be exercised in carrying out its 
functions and duties and in safeguarding the rights and interests of unit 
holders to which the Trust Deed relates and undertaking that timely 
action will be taken against any party that will cause any loss to a 
property of a SL-REIT in any manner;
(c)  That it will ensure that the Managing Company does not act improperly 
or engage in unethical business practices in managing the SL-REIT 
to gain directly or indirectly an advantage for itself or for any other 
person or to prejudice the interests of unit holders;
(d)  That it will keep or cause to be kept proper books of accounts for all 
investments and properties of the SL-REIT;
(e) That it will ensure that proper records are kept of all transactions, 
dividends, interests and income received and distributed for the SL-
REIT; and
(f) That it will cause the accounts of the SL-REIT to be audited at the end 
of each ﬁ nancial year by an auditor appointed by the Trustee.
Joint Covenants of the 
Management Company 
and Trustee
114 A Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall contain joint covenants by the Managing Company 
and Trustee which shall include the following:-
(a) To safeguard the interests of unit holders;
(b) To ensure that for the duration of the SL-REIT there is a valid deed in 
force at all times and a covenant undertaking not to exercise the voting 
rights where there is a conﬂ ict of interest; and
(c) To ensure timely action including the institution of legal proceedings 
against any defaulter or user of the real estate belonging to the SL-REIT
Other Provisions 115 A Trust Deed of a SL-REIT shall also provide for the following:
(a) Creation of the SL-REIT or declaration of trust, which also sets out 
full particulars of the trust, including precise information as to the 
circumstances in which the money, securities, investments, and properties 
which are the subject of the SL-REIT and the duties and obligations of 
the trustee towards the SL-REIT.
(b) That the Trust Deed–
 (i) is binding on each unit holder as if it had been made a party to it 
and that it or he is bound by its provisions;
 (ii) authorizes and requires the Managing Company and the Trustee 
to do the things required of them by the terms of the deed; and
 (iii) is made and governed under the laws of Sri Lanka;
(c) Appointment of a Trustee to the SL-REIT;

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
49A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(d) Full particulars of the SL-REIT including, but not limited to–
 (i) name of the SL-REIT;
 (ii) investment objective of the SL-REIT;
 (iii) permitted investments, limits, and restrictions;
 (iv) valuation of the assets of the SL-REIT;
 (v) the nature of the SL-REIT;
 (vi) the SL-REIT’s distribution policy including the basis for the 
distribution or re investment of income;
 (vii) accounting period of the SL-REIT; 
(e) Full particulars of circumstances by which all or any of the investments 
may be varied.
(f) Full particulars on the provision to be made for investments in property 
that depreciates in value, including the source from which the replacement 
is to be made or from which the cost of replacement is to be met. If no 
provision is made, a clear statement to that fact must be made;
(g) Full particulars on the circumstances in which the Managing Company 
may be required to repurchase from a unit holder any unit which the unit 
holder has purchased and the method of calculation of the repurchase price 
of the unit if or where relevant;
(h) Full particulars on the conditions governing the transfer of any unit to 
which the trust deed relates;
(i) Full particulars on the remuneration of the Managing Company and Trustee 
respectively and expenses including dealing charges (if any) and expenses 
which are  allowed to be paid out of the SL-REIT;
(j) Where the deed requires, or confers a right on, unit holders to enter into 
an agreement in connection with the SL-REIT, a provision incorporating 
the terms and conditions of that agreement;
(k) A declaration that unless the conditions of issue of any unit expressly 
provide that a certi ﬁ cate is not to be issued or that a certi ﬁ cate will be 
issued at the option of the unit holder, by the trustee to a purchaser of any 
unit purchased or subscribed for, not more than 21 calendar days after the 
issue of the unit where relevant. This subparagraph may not be applicable 
if the units are to be dematerialized;
(l) Circumstances under which the dealing in units can be deferred or 
suspended;
(m) Circumstances, procedures and processes for termination or winding up 
the SL-REIT;
(n) Circumstances, procedures and processes for convening of meetings of 
unit holders, including the manner in which votes may be counted at a 
meeting of unit holders;
(o) Circumstances, procedures and processes for retirement, removal and 
replacement of the Managing Company and the Trustee;

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
50A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(p)   Circumstances, procedures and processes for the appointment retirement, 
removal, and replacement of the auditor for the SL-REIT;
(q) Speci ﬁ c provisions whereby the Managing Company undertakes to keep 
and maintain an up-to-date register of unit holders and to make that register 
available for inspection, free of charge, to any unit holder at any time 
during ordinary business hours of the Managing Company;
(r) The extent of the indemnity provided by the Managing Company;
(s) Full particulars relating to unit holders’ rights and the extent of their 
liability; and
(t) Provisions governing the modi ﬁ cation of the trust deed; and
(u) Provisions on the method of calculating the liquidation and delisting price.
Minimum content 
in the Explanatory 
Memorandum
116 The Explanatory Memorandum constitutes the fundamental base of information 
for the subscribers to units of a SL-REIT and shall be reviewed and updated by the 
SL-REIT as it becomes necessary. In the event the Explanatory Memorandum is 
intended to be amended, a copy of the addendum shall be submitted and ﬁ led with 
the SEC for its prior approval. 
The information required below constitutes the minimum and is not  intended to be 
exhaustive. The Managing Company is obliged to disclose any information which 
may be necessary for investors to make an informed decision. 
(1) Constitution of the SL-REIT 
(a) Introduction to and about the SL-REIT
(b) Name, registered address and date of creation of the SL-REIT
(c) Type of investors 
(2) Investment Objectives and Restrictions 
The Explanatory Memorandum of the SL-REIT shall clearly include the following:-
(a) Investment Objectives – the fundamental investment objectives of the SL-
REIT must be stated and the types of permissible investments in which the 
fund proposes to invest.
(b) A disclosure shall be made as to whether the SL-REIT is perpetual or for a 
ﬁ xed or speciﬁ ed term. 
(c) The investment policy and strategy indicating the asset allocation of the 
SL-REIT in pursuing its objectives; 
(d) The proposed use of the monies raised from the public offering of the units 
in the SL-REIT and any business plan for the SL-REIT; 
(e) A discussion of the business plan for property investment and management 
covering the scope and type of investments made or intended to be made by 
the SL-REIT, including the type(s) of real estate; 
(f) The general character and competitive conditions of all real estate now held 
or intended to be acquired by the SL-REIT and how it meets the established 
criteria for selection;

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
51A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Actual and expected rent per square foot as projected by the valuer shall be 
disclosed. Where the property has already been leased to any party at a discount 
less than ten percent of the valuer’s projected rent per square foot, such fact shall 
be disclosed together with the rationale thereto. 
(g) The nature and risks of making property investments in each of the relevant 
locations, including, an explanation of the nature of the risks, including 
minimum/maximum exposure, concentration risk; 
 (i) demographics; 
 (ii) state of the economy, economic risks and foreign exchange risk; 
 (iii) political risks; 
 (iv) legal risks and tax considerations; 
 (v) policies that affect property investments and property sales; 
 (vi) overview of the property market; 
 (vii) analysis of the speci ﬁ c property sector and the competitive 
dynamics in the rental market; 
 (viii) operational requirement; and 
 (ix) rules and regulations governing property ownership and tenancy 
matters; 
(h) Details of the legal title/bene ﬁ cial ownership of the underlying property/
securities of the SL-REIT; 
(i) Transaction history of the relevant property in the ﬁ ve years immediately 
preceding and within the date of the valuation report included in the 
explanatory memorandum; 
(j) Any proposed program for renovation or improvement to the real estate, 
including the estimated costs thereof and the method of ﬁ nancing to be used; 
(k) The operating data of each of the property including the period of occupancy, 
occupancy rate, number of tenants and its mix in terms of occupation or 
business, average annual rental per square foot, and schedule of lease 
expirations for the next ﬁ ve years;
(l) The borrowing policy and the method or proposed method of operating and 
ﬁ nancing the scheme’s real estate investments; 
(m) The measures in place to mitigate or minimize risks relating to the investment 
and management of real estate owned by the SL-REIT; 
(n) The insurance arranged for the SL-REIT;
(o) The exit strategy in the event of divestment factors and risks which may 
impact or act as an impediment to an exit, and the contingency plan; 
(p) Details of transactions or agreements entered into with connected parties; 

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
52A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(q) Full particulars of the nature and extent of the interest, if any, of any director 
of the Trustee, the Managing Company, the Principal Valuer or any other 
connected persons to the SL-REIT, in the property owned or proposed to be 
acquired by the SL-REIT; and where the interest of such a director consists 
in being a partner in a ﬁ rm, the nature and extent of the interest of the ﬁ rm, 
with a statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to him or the ﬁ rm for 
services rendered to the SL-REIT;
(r) The Members in the Audit Committee and how frequently they have to meet; 
(s) A valuation report prepared by the Principal Valuer in accordance with 
regulatory standards applicable for managing the REIT with respect to all 
the SL-REIT’s  interest in real estate, including particulars of each property 
owned by the SL-REIT or contracted for purchase by the SL-REIT;
(t) Particulars of any bank overdrafts or similar indebtedness of the SL-REIT, 
or if there is no such indebtedness, a statement to that effect;
(u) Occupancy Projections for the next three years;
(v)  Projected Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Cash ﬂ ow forecast for the three 
years commencing on the date of the Explanatory Memorandum;
(w) Accountant’s Report on above (t), (u), (v);
(x) Intervals at which dividends will be paid.
Note: All the above information has to be disclosed in the context of the 
speciﬁ c characteristics and circumstances of the investments made or to be 
made by a SL-REIT, and shall not be generic statements of investment in 
the property market. 
If the nature of the investment policy so dictates, a warning that investment 
in the SL-REIT is subject to abnormal risks, and a description of the risks 
involved. 
(3) Designated Persons
The names, registered addresses and responsibilities of the parties involved in 
the Managing Company operation and valuation of the SL-REIT, including the 
following parties (where applicable): 
(a) The Managing Company; 
Information on the Managing Company shall include: 
(i) a description of the expertise, experience, resources, internal controls 
and risk management system regarding the investment activities of 
SL-REIT; 
 (ii) Audited Financial Statements of the Managing Company for a period 
of three years;
 (iii) description of the SL-REIT management activities;
 (iv) Speci ﬁ c details of the Investment Committee;
 (v) The details of the members in the Audit Committee;
(vi) How frequently they have to meet; and
 (vii) What are the roles and responsibilities of Audit Committee.
(b) the Trustee; 
(c) delegates of the Managing Company where applicable; 
(d) the sponsor; a description of his expertise and experience;

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
53A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(e) the property valuer; a description of his expertise, experience, resources, and 
qualiﬁ cations
(f) the property manager; a description of his expertise, experience and 
qualiﬁ cations
(g) the fund manager ; a description of his expertise and experience
(h) the auditor
(i) the registrar
(j) the project manager; a description of his expertise and experience
(k) the construction contractor; a description of his expertise and experience
(4) Characteristics of Units 
      Minimum investment and Subsequent holding (if any)
Issue and Redemption of Units
(5) Application Procedure 
Procedure for subscribing units
(6) Distribution Policy 
The dividend policy and approximate dates on which dividends will be paid.
(7) Fees and Charges 
(a) The types of all fees and charges payable by a unit holder, including all 
charges levied on subscription; 
(b) The types of all fees chargeable by the SL-REIT, including management 
fees, trustee fees, start-up expense and fees in relation to listing etc 
(including underwriting fees, where applicable); and 
(c) The period of notice to be given to unit holders for fee increases. 
Note: the basis of calculation or the estimated ranges shall be disclosed. 
the expected maximum expense percentage the managing company intends to charge 
against the value of the SL-REIT
Disclose details of fees payable in respect of attestation of transfer  Deeds and Lease 
agreements.
(8) Taxation 
Details of the principal taxes levied on the SL-REIT’s income and capital, including 
tax, if any, deducted on distribution to holders. Details of applicability of tax pass 
through status.
(9) Valuation Policy 
The frequency of the valuations to be carried out, qualiﬁ cations of the valuer and 
the maximum time of engagement of the valuer. 
If the valuer is removed then the relevant disclosure and details of valuations to 
be handed over to the incoming valuer.
Disclosure of the actual and expected rent per square foot in respect of a building 
or proposed building of a SL-REIT
(10) Permitted Investments
Details to be included under Permitted Investments.
(11) Unit Holders Meeting 
The Managing Company and trustee may convene a meeting of the unit holders 
at any time, provided any exceptional circumstances require such meeting. All 
meetings shall be conducted in compliance with the provisions of the SEC Act, 
Directives issued thereunder, these Rules and the provisions of the Trust Deed.

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
54A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(12) Reports and Accounts 
(a) The date of the scheme’s ﬁ nancial year. 
(b) Particulars of the types of reports and the timelines 
(13) Warnings 
Statements/warnings shall be prominently displayed in the Explanatory 
Memorandum as follows: 
(a) “Important - if you are in any doubt about the contents of this explanatory 
document, you shall seek independent professional ﬁ nancial advice”. 
(b) A statement to the effect that the rental yield on real estate held by the 
SL-REIT is not equivalent to the yield on the units. 
(c) A statement to explain: 
 (i) the current rental receipts and that yields may not be sustained; 
(ii) that the value of the property may rise as well as fall; and 
(iii) the standards according to which the property valuations are 
conducted. 
(d) A statement to explain the investment characteristics and risk pro ﬁ le of 
the SL-REIT.
(14)  General Information
(a) The date of publication of the Explanatory Memorandum. 
(b) De ﬁ nitions
(c) A responsibility statement 
     A statement that the Managing Company, Trustee and its directors 
accept responsibility for the information contained in the Explanatory 
Memorandum as being accurate at the date of publication. 
(d)  Details of listing procedures and special information relating to listing.    
(e) Governing Laws
(f) Rights of Unit Holders
(15) Termination of SL-REIT 
A summary of the circumstances in which the SL-REIT can be terminated.
(16) Disclosures
         Disclosure of information shall be made regarding the real estates of the SL-
REIT, including but not limited to, the following:
(a) Details of the real estates owned proposed to be owned/leased by the 
fund (to be disclosed separately for each real estate unless the details are 
disclosed in the ﬁ nancial statements) such as–
 Name and address of the real estates;
 Description, property type, and age of the real estates;
 Title details, encumbrances or limitations in title/ interests (if any); 
 Net lettable area, existing use, occupancy rates, period of 
occupancy, and number of parking spaces; 
 Non lettable area (If any) ;
 brief particulars of tenancies highlighting the information of major 
tenants, average lease period etc; 
 date of acquisition of real estates; 
 acquisition price; 
 copy of the standard lease agreements as prepared by a reputed 
lawyer;

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
55A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
 market value of the real estate, date of latest valuation, and name 
of independent valuer that carried out the valuation; 
 net book value of the real estate.
(b)  Where a real es tate is acquired or disposed during the period, the following 
information must be disclosed;
 Identity of vendor or lessor and purchaser of the real estate;
  In the case of acquisitions information required in (a) above; and
 In the case of disposal date of disposal, disposal price, market value 
as per valuation report of the real estate, date of latest valuation, 
name of independent valuer that carried out the valuation, and gain 
or loss on disposal; and
(c) Where a real estate is acquired from, or disposed to, a related party during 
the period, the following details must be disclosed:
 Information required in (a) above;
 Relationship between the vendor/purchaser with the fund or 
management company; and
 Where unit holders’ approval is required and a resolution has been 
obtained, details of the meeting (such as the date of meeting, number 
of attendees etc.), and the resolution; and
(d) Name and address of the property manager for each real estate
(e) There should also be disclosure of the following information:
(i) Name, address, telephone, e mail, active web address and facsimile 
numbers of the registered ofﬁ ce of the managing company and trustee;
(ii) Name, address, telephone, and facsimile numbers of each of ﬁ ce at 
which a register of unit holders is kept;
(iii) Particulars of each director of the managing company including the 
following information:
A. Name, age, nationality, qualification, and whether the 
director is an executive, non-executive or independent 
director;  
B. Work experience and occupation;
C. Date on which he was ﬁ rst appointed to the board;
D. Details of any board sub-committee to which he belongs;
E. Other directorship of listed companies;
F. Con ﬂ ict of interest if any that he has with the SL-REIT;
G. List of convictions for offences within the past ten years 
other than trafﬁ c offences, if any; and a negative statement 
if not; and
H. Number of board meetings attended in the ﬁ nancial year
(f) Particulars of the chief executive of ﬁ cer and where the chief executive 
ofﬁ cer is not a director, the following particulars:
(i) Name, age, nationality, and quali ﬁ cation;
(ii) Work experience;
(iii) Date on which he was ﬁ rst appointed by the managing company;
(iv) Details of any interest in the fund ;
(v) Other directorship of public companies ;
(vi) Conﬂ ict of interest tha he has with the SL-REIT ; and
(vii) List of convictions for offences within the past ten years other than 
trafﬁ c offences, if any; or a negative statement where applicable. 

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
56A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(g) Particulars of each investment committee member of the SL-REIT including 
the following information :
(i) Name, age, nationality, qualiﬁ cation and whether he is an independent 
member ;
(ii) Working experience and occupation ;
(iii) Date on which he was ﬁ rst appointed to the Committee;
(iv) Conﬂ ict of interest if any that he has with the SL-REIT;
(v) List of convictions for offences within the past ten years other than 
trafﬁ c offences, if any; or a negative statement;
(vi) Number of Committee meetings attended in the ﬁ nancial year.
(h) Name and address of any delegates, including the functions delegated to them.
(i) Particulars of material contracts of the SL REIT involving the managing 
company and major unit holders’ interests, either still subsisting at the end 
of the ﬁ nancial year or, if not then subsisting, entered into since the end 
of the previous ﬁ nancial year, providing the following particulars for each 
contract:
A. The date;
B. The parties;
C. The general nature;
D. The consideration passing to or from the SL-REIT;
E. The mode of satisfaction of the consideration; and 
F. The relationship between the director or major unit holder and the 
contracting party (if the director or major unit holder is not the 
contracting party).
Note:
If no material contract has been entered into, a statement to that effect must be clearly 
disclosed.
(j) Where the above contract relates to a borrowings of through a loan the 
following particulars:
(i) Names of the lender and the borrower;
(ii) Relationship between the borrower and the director or major shareholder 
(if the director or the major shareholder is not the borrower);
(iii) Purpose of the loan;
(iv) Amount of the loan;
(v) Interest rate;
(vi) Terms as to payment of interest and repayment of principal;
(vii) Security/collateral provided; and
(viii) Fund’s gearing ratio.
(ix) Rational as to why borrowed through a loan instead of listed 
debentures.
(k) A statement (indicating the date of such statement) that sets out–
the names of the major unit holders (excluding bare trustees) and 
their direct and deemed interests, stating the number and percentage 
of units in which they have an interest Eg- 20 largest unit holders no 
of units & % held
(l) advantages and disadvantages when investing in SL-REITs.
(m) Litigation, disputes and contingent liabilities
(17) Declarations
(a) Declaration by Managing Company 
(b) Declaration by Trustee

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
57A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
SCHEDULE I
Contents of a SL-REIT’s 
Annual Report
The purpose of a SL-REIT’s Annual Report is to provide information to enable unit 
holders to evaluate the performance of the SL-REIT.
The information required by the SEC under this schedule is the minimum that must be 
included in a SL-REIT’s Annual Report.
A. Information of the SL-REIT (a) This section should disclose the following information:
(i) Name, type, and category of the SL-REIT;
(ii) The SL-REIT’s investment objective;
(iii) The SL-REIT’s performance benchmark;
(iv) The SL-REIT’s distribution policy;
(v) Composition of the SL-REIT’s investment portfolio grouped in 
appropriate categories, e.g. property (listed by types e.g. Residential, 
commercial, industrial, etc.), 
real estate-related assets and non-real estate related-assets (e.g. 
government securities, cash and near cash), including the respective 
percentages;
(vi) Breakdown of unit holding as follows:
No of Holders Total Number of 
Units Held
%
Less than 100
100 to 1,000
1,001 to 10,000
10,001 to 100,000
100,001 to less than 5% of 
approved SL-REIT size
10% and above the approved SL-
REIT size
(b) Disclosure of information regarding the real estates of the SL-REIT, including 
but not limited to the following:
(i) Details of the property owned by the SL-REIT (to be disclosed separately 
for each property unless the details are disclosed in the ﬁ nancial statements) 
such as–
 Name and address of the properties;
 Description, property type and age of the property;
 Report of the underlying property in relation to the  title and a letter 
of assurance from an attorney at law who is notary public with 
over ten years’ experience (in conveyancing similar properties) 
that the properties have no encumbrances and if there are any 
encumbrances or interests or charges on the property the details 
of same  (if any);

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
58A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
 Net lettable area, existing use, occupancy rates, and number of 
parking spaces;
 Non lettable area (If any)
 Brief particulars of tenancies specifying information in areas of 
tenancy/lease periods, average lease period etc;
 Date of acquisition of properties;
 Acquisition prices;
 Market value of the property, date of latest valuation, and name 
of independent valuer that carried out the valuation; and 
 Net book value of the property
(ii) Where a property is acquired or disposed during the period, the following 
information must be disclosed;
 Identity of vendor/purchaser of the property;
 (For acquisitions) Information required in (i) above; and
 (For disposal) Date of disposal, disposal price, market value as 
per valuation report of the property, date of latest valuation, name 
of independent valuer that carried out the valuation, and gain/loss 
on disposal; and
(iii) Where a property is acquired from, or disposed to, related party during the 
period, the following details must be disclosed:
 Information required in as above;
 Relationship between the vendor/purchaser with the SL-REIT or 
Managing Company, the rationale for disposing to  related party; 
and
 Whether the unit holders’ approval is required and a resolution has 
been obtained, details of the meeting (such as the date of meeting, 
number of attendees etc.), and the resolution; and
(iv) Name and address of the property manager for each property
(c) There should also be disclosure of the following information:
(i) Name, address, telephone, e mail, active web address and facsimile 
numbers of the registered of ﬁ ce of the management company and 
trustee;
(ii) Particulars of each director of the Managing Company including the 
following information;
 Name, age, nationality, qualiﬁ cation, and whether the position 
is an executive or non-executive one, and whether such director 
is an independent director;
 Working experience and occupation;
 Date he was ﬁ rst appointed to the board;
 Details of any board committee to which he belongs;
 Other directorship of public companies;
 Family relationship with any director and/or major unit holder 
of the SL-REIT;
 Conﬂ ict of interest that he has with the SL-REIT (if any);
 List of convictions for offences within the past 10 years other 
than trafﬁ c offences, if any; and
 Number of board meetings attended in the ﬁ nancial year

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
59A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(iii) Particulars of the chief executive ofﬁ cer and where the chief executive 
ofﬁ cer is a director, the following particulars:
 Name, age, nationality, and qualiﬁ cation;
 Working experience;
 Date he was ﬁ rst appointed by the managing company;
 Details of any interest in the; SL-REIT;
 Other directorship of public companies;
 Family relationship with any director and/or major unit holder 
of the SL-REIT;
 Conﬂ ict of interest that he has with the SL-REIT; and
 List of convictions for offences within the past 10 years other 
than trafﬁ c offences, if any;
(d) Particulars of each investment committee member of the SL-REIT including 
the following information:
(i) Name, age, nationality, quali ﬁ cation, and whether he is an independent 
member;
(ii) Working experience and occupation;
(iii) Date he was ﬁ rst appointed to the Committee;
(iv) Conﬂ ict of interest that he has with the SL-REIT;
(v) List of convictions for offences within the past 10 years other than 
trafﬁ c offences, if any; and
(vi) Number of Committee meetings attended in the ﬁ nancial year.
(e) Name and address of any delegates, including the functions delegated to them.
(f) Name and address of the company secretary of the Managing Company;
(g) Total number of board meetings in relation to the SL-REIT held during the 
ﬁ nancial year by the Managing Company;
(h) Particulars of all sanctions and/or penalties imposed on the SL-REIT, directors 
of the management company or the Managing Company by the relevant 
regulatory bodies;
(i) Amount of non-audit fees incurred for services rendered to the SL-REIT for 
the ﬁ nancial year by the SL-REIT’s auditors, or a ﬁ rm or company afﬁ liated 
to the auditors’ ﬁ rm;
(j) Particulars of material contracts of the SL-REIT involving the Managing 
Company and major unit holders’ interest, either still existing at the end of 
the ﬁ nancial year or entered into since the end of the previous ﬁ nancial year, 
providing the following particulars for each contract:
(i) The date;
(ii) The parties;
(iii) The general nature;
(iv) The consideration passing to or from the SL-REIT;
(v) The mode of satisfaction of the consideration; and 
(vi) The relationship between the director or major unit holder and the 
contracting party (if the director or major unit holder is not the 
contracting party).

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
60A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
Note :If no material contract has been entered into, a statement to that effect must be 
clearly disclosed.
(k) Where a material contract relates to a borrowing through a loan, the following 
particulars:
(i) Names of the lender;
(ii) Whether the lender is a related party
(iii) Purpose of the loan;
(iv) Amount of the loan;
(v) Following details if borrowed from a related party:
- Interest rate;
- Terms as to payment of interest and repayment of 
principal;
- Security/collateral provided; and
(vi) SL-REIT gearing ratio.
(l) Details of twenty largest unit holders
B. SL-REIT’s Performance (a) The following information should be disclosed in this section:
(i) A comparative table consisting the following details for the last three ﬁ nancial 
years, or since inception if shorter, showing for the end of each ﬁ nancial year–
 the total asset value of the SL-REIT;
 the NA V of the SL-REIT;
 the NA V per unit of the SL-REIT;
 the highest and lowest NA V per unit;(The ﬁ gures referred to in 
(ii) to (iv) should be shown as ex-distribution.)
 the highest and lowest market  price per unit;
 the number of units listed or in circulation;
 the distribution per unit (interim and ﬁ nal) and the date for each 
distribution. The effects of the income distribution on the NA V 
per unit before and after distribution should be clearly disclosed;
 the distribution yield of the SL-REIT; and
 the management expense ratio (MER) of the SL-REIT  If 
applicable
(ii) Average total return of the SL-REIT measured over the following periods to 
the date of the report:
 One year, or since inception if shorter;
 Three years; and
 Five years.
(iii) Annual total return of the SL-REIT for each of the last ﬁ ve ﬁ nancial years, or 
since inception if shorter.
(iv) A SL-REIT report may include other performance data aside from those 
mentioned in above. 
However, all performance data presented must comply with the following requirements:
 The bases of calculation and any assumptions made should be 
consistently applied, adequately disclosed and independently 
veriﬁ ed; and
 Whether the data used was obtained from independent sources.
(v) It must be clearly stated that past performance is not necessarily indicative of 
future performance and that unit prices and investment returns may ﬂ uctuate.

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
61A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
C. Manager’s Report (a) A Managing Company shall prepare a report containing an operational review of 
the SL-REIT, the result of those operations and details of signiﬁ cant changes in the 
state of affairs of the SL-REIT during the ﬁ nancial period.
(b) In selecting a format for the presentation of the manager’s report, consideration 
should be given, not only to its completeness and accuracy, but also to the clarity 
of the overall presentation.
(c) The manager’s report shall include, but not be limited to the following:
(i) Explanation on whether the SL-REIT  has achieved its investment objective. 
The explanation should be stated upfront and clearly. 
(ii) Comparison between the SL-REIT’s performance and the performance 
benchmark stated in the explanatory memorandum. This should cover the last 
ﬁ ve ﬁ nancial years, or since inception if shorter, and should be illustrated in 
graphical form;
(iii) Description and explanation of signi ﬁ cant changes in the state of affairs of 
the SL-REIT during the period and up to the date of the manager’s report, not 
otherwise disclosed in the ﬁ nancial statements;
(iv) An explanation on any differences in portfolio composition between the period 
under review and previous year (where applicable);
(v) An analysis of the SL-REIT’s performance based on changes in total NA V and 
NA V per unit since the last review period or since commencement (for newly 
established SL-REIT);
(vi) An analysis of the SL-REIT’s performance based on changes in prices since the 
last review period or since commencement (for newly established SL-REIT);
(vii) A brief explanation of the status of utilization of proceeds raised from any 
issuance of new units (where applicable);
(viii) Any circumstances which materially affect any interests of the unit holders;
(ix) Changes in material litigation (including status of any pending material 
litigation) since the last annual balance sheet;
(x) Explanation on any maintenance costs and major capital expenditure incurred 
during the period;
(xi) Statement explaining the Managing Company’s responsibility for preparing 
the annual  accounts for auditing purpose
D. Trustee’s Report (a) A T rustee shall prepare a report stating in its opinion whether the Managing Company 
has managed the SL-REIT in accordance with the following:
(i) Limitations imposed on the investment powers of the Managing Company 
by the trustee under the Trust Deed, the SEC Act, directives issued 
thereunder, these Rules and other applicable laws;
(ii) Valuation/pricing is carried out in accordance with the Trust Deed and any 
regulatory requirement; and
(iii) Creation and cancellation of units are carried out in accordance with the 
Trust Deed and any regulatory requirement.

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
62A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
(b) If the Trustee is of the opinion that the Managing Company has not done so, the 
trustee should disclose the shortcoming(s) which may have an impact on the decision 
of the existing or the potential unit holders to remain invested or to invest in the 
SL-REIT. The trustee should highlight steps taken to address the shortcoming(s) 
and/or to prevent the recurrence of the shortcoming(s).
(c) The report prepared by the trustee under (a)  shall include a further statement stating 
in its opinion whether the distribution of returns by the SL-REIT is relevant and 
reﬂ ects the investment objective(s) of the SL-REIT.
E. Auditor’s Report (i) An annual report for a SL-REIT shall be accompanied by an auditor’s report.
(ii) An auditors report shall contain an opinion on the accounts of the SL-REIT. Where 
the report is qualiﬁ ed, the details of the qualiﬁ cation shall be noted under the section 
dedicated for comments. 
(iii) to provide all necessary information to enable unit holders to evaluate the 
performance of the REIT.
(iv) The ﬁ nancial statement shall give a true and fair view of the ﬁ nancial position, 
ﬁ nancial performance and cash ﬂ ows of a SL-REIT. The ﬁ nancial statements shall 
be prepared and audited in accordance with applicable and approved accounting and 
auditing standards and shall comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
(v) For interim reports, it shall be clearly stated whether the ﬁ nancial statements in the 
interim report are audited or unaudited.
(vi) For the purpose of interim reports where unaudited ﬁ nancial statements are used, the 
ﬁ nancial statements shall include a declaration by the director(s) of the Managing 
Company stating that the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view of the 
ﬁ nancial position, ﬁ nancial performance and cash ﬂ ows of the SL-REIT. A signed 
copy of the declaration, which are identical to the declaration printed in the report 
shall be submitted to the SEC.
(vii) There shall be additional information disclosed in the ﬁ nancial statements as follows:
 NA V of the SL-REIT;
 Number of units listed or in circulation;
 NA V per unit (ex-distribution, where applicable);
 Net assets/liabilities attributable to unit holders; and
 NA V backing at book value of each unit as at balance sheet date 
of the accounts.
Note
The carrying amounts of investments (where applicable) should be 
categorized as follows:
Property;
Non-real estate-related assets;
Cash and cash equivalents; and

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
63A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
 Amounts and percentages of fees, charges and reimbursements 
paid to the managing company and Trustees, with each type of 
fees charged shown separately;
 Fee paid to trustee and any reimbursement of trustee’s expenses;
 Valuation fees;
 Total amount available for distribution and distribution per 
unit(interim and ﬁ nal); and
 The net income after tax to be shown separately between realized 
and unrealized portions.
The number of units and value held by the managing company 
(directly or indirectly) together with related parties 
Auditor’s veriﬁ cation of management expense ratio and portfolio 
turnover ratio (applicable only for annual report);
Sources of distribution made to unit holders must be disclosed(the 
prescribed format is as follows):
Description FY1 FY2
Rental income
Dividend income
Realized gains (less losses) on sale 
of investments
Other income
Less- expenses
Taxation
Distribution as per unit
Distribution as %

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
64A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
SCHEDULE II
A. Submission of Applications 
for License to the SEC
(a) An application submitted for SEC’s approval should comprise the following–
Cover letter, specifying (where applicable)–
 the approval sought, including particulars of the proposal(s);
 particulars of the initial public offering (IPO) proposal;
 Particulars of other required approvals obtained/pending (if applicable); declaration 
of conﬂ ict of interest, if any, by advisers/experts of the application. If a conﬂ ict of 
interest exists, to provide full disclosure of the nature of conﬂ ict and the rational 
to proceed with a transaction/engagement despite the prevalence of a conﬂ ict of 
interest.
 Draft Explanatory Memorandum
 Information on real estates to be acquired by the SL-REIT
 Commentary on the SL-REIT s future performance.
 Performa balance sheets after incorporating the effects of the proposal
 Opinion of the competent, independent expert on proﬁ t forecast
 Draft Trust Deed
 Any other document to support the application
(b) An application for the appointment of a company to act as managing company to 
a SL-REIT shall be accompanied by
(c) Statutory declaration from the applicant stating that it is independent of the trustee.
(d) A declaration letter from the directors of the applicant,  quali ﬁ cations , experience  
and suitability to perform as  a director
(e) Details on the property manager, including corporate information and track record.
(f) Request for the appointment of a licensed commercial bank to act as Trustee of a 
SL-REIT. 
(g) All applications should be accompanied with the appropriate fee 

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
65A
SEC (REITs) Regulations, No. 1, 2020
SCHEDULE  III
An Application for approval 
of the SEC by a Managing 
Company to Appoint a Delegate 
or Service Provider
An application for approval to appoint a delegate or service provider shall be accompanied 
with the following; 
(a) An undertaking that the applicant will take responsibility for the actions and 
omissions of the delegate as though they were its own actions and omissions.
(b) A declaration by the applicant that it–
 has adequate procedures to monitor the conduct of the delegate 
to ensure that the delegated function is performed in a proper and 
efﬁ cient manner;
 has conducted a review of the operations of the delegate, and is 
satisﬁ ed that the delegate has the capabilities and capacity, and is 
suitable to undertake the delegated function; and
 is satis ﬁ ed that the delegate will be able to ful ﬁ ll its duties and 
responsibilities of the delegated function in a proper and ef ﬁ cient 
manner.

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 31.07.2020
66A
SCHEDULE  IV
GUIDANCE NOTES
GUIDANCE UNDER 
GENERAL SECTION
The SEC may from time to time, provide guidance by way of Directives or otherwise 
on the provisions of these Rules to a Managing Company and the Trustee. The SEC 
reserves the right to decide on any matter pertaining to SL-REIT as and when required. 
The Managing Company and Trustee shall comply with the guidance provided and 
any decision made or instruction given by the SEC in the same manner as these Rules. 
GUIDANCE UNDER FOR 
ENSURING V ALID TITLE  
UNDER MANAGING 
COMPANY
(i) The deed and the plan should be the original deed and plan of the current owner or 
copy of the duplicate certiﬁ ed by the Registrar of lands or the copy of the protocol 
certiﬁ ed by the relevant notary who attested same.
(ii) Copies of plans are required to be certiﬁ ed by the surveyor who prepared the plan 
or if he is not available the certi ﬁ cate should be obtained from the surveyor in 
whose custody the duplicate copies of the plans are kept.
(iii) Where there has been a change to the lot size there should be an endorsement by 
the surveyor stating that there is no further change to the status or boundaries of 
the property.
(iv) If the building is under construction the approved building plan or if the building is 
already constructed the certiﬁ cate of conformity shall be submitted for examination
GUIDANCE UNDER DUTIES 
AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF 
THE TRUSTEE
 To safeguard the interests of unit holders, the trustee may if deemed appropriate 
conduct independent reviews without depending solely on information submitted 
by the Managing Company.
 A trustee shall ensure that it is fully informed of the investment policies of the trust 
adopted by the Managing Company and of changes made if any. If the Trustee is 
of the opinion that such policies are not in the best interests of unit holders, it shall 
after considering any representations made by the Managing Company, instruct 
the Managing Company to take appropriate action as the Trustee deems ﬁ t and 
or summon a unit holders’ meeting or give such instructions to the Managing 
Company to hold such meeting.
 Functions of the Managing Company and do everything in its power to ensure 
that the Managing Company remedies any breach as may come to the knowledge 
of the Trustee of the provisions or covenants of the Trust Deed, disclosures in 
the Explanatory Memorandum, requirements of the SEC Act, Directives issued 
thereunder, these Rules and Rules of a licensed Stock Exchange.
GUIDANCE UNDER 
PERMITTED INVESTMENTS 
The use of the SL-REIT’s latest total asset value, as disclosed in the latest published 
audited accounts of the fund and adjusted for any subsequent transaction since the 
publication of such accounts shall be used in determining compliance with the limits 
and restrictions.
08-66
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.