

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2414$14 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks nodod - 2024'12'11
No. 2414/14  -  WedNesday,   december  11,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - G 43237 - 05 (12/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
INLAND  REvENuE  ACT,  No. 24 Of  2017
Regulations under Section 86 (7)
I, Wijesingha arachchige sepalika chandrasekara, commissioner General of Inland revenue, do by this order under the 
sub-section (7) of section 86 of the Inland revenue act, No. 24 of 2017, as amended by the Inland revenue (amendment) 
act, No. 04 of 2023, specify the procedure of withholding the tax from any payment made to a non-resident person under 
the division II of chapter VIII of the Inland revenue act, No. 24 of 2017 in schedule hereto. every Licensed commercial 
banks and authorized dealers engaged in Outward remittances and withholding agents who make Outward remittances 
shall comply with such procedure.
These regulations shall come into effect from January 01, 2025.
 
Wijesingha arachchige sepalika chandrasekara,
 commissioner General of Inland revenue.
Inland revenue department,
colombo 02,
december 10, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2024
2a
scheduLe
1.  Persons to be Complied with these Procedure
In terms of sections 83a, 84, 84a  and 85 of the Inland revenue act, No. 24 of 2017 (hereinafter referred to as “Ira”) 
as amended, withholding agents (hereinafter referred to as “Wha”) who make payments to persons outside sri Lanka and 
all licensed commercial banks and authorized dealers engaged in outward remittances shall comply with this procedure. 
Government institute under the Government of sri Lanka shall also be complied with this procedure in the case of a 
payment made to a non-resident person other than a payment derived through a sri Lankan permanent establishment.
2. Requirement of a Tax Clearance
due Withholding tax (hereinafter referred to as “WhT” and it includes advance Income Tax) imposed in terms of the 
sections 83a, 84, 84a  and 85 of the Ira  (as amended) on payments to a non-resident person shall be collected by the 
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue (hereinafter referred to as “CGIR”) and issue a Tax Clearance Certificate 
(hereinafter referred to as “Tcc”) for the purpose of relevant outward remittances to the Wha.
however, a Tcc is not required in relation to the outward remittances mentioned in the Negative List (item 3 below). 
a Tcc shall be obtained from the cGIr for all other payments not mentioned in the Negative List.
3. Negative List
 (i) remittances for import of any tangible goods.
 (ii) remittances of sale proceeds of quoted shares owned by non-residents in any company resident in sri Lanka.
 (iii) remittances of dividends to relevant shareholders if such dividend is subjected to advance Income Tax at the 
rate of 15% or such dividend is exempt from income tax (To substantiate the 15% tax deduction, a withholding 
certificate must be utilized as proof for outward remittance purposes).
 (iv)  If Tcc for opening an Outward Investment account (hereinafter referred to as “OIa”) has been already obtained 
from the cGIr, then outward remittances from such OIa  opened by the eligible resident person with an 
authorized dealer in sri Lanka, subject to the limitations and terms and conditions stipulated in the regulations 
made under the provisions of the Foreign exchange act, No. 12 of 2017.
 (v) remittances of payments receivable by a non-resident person who conducts a relevant transport business in 
respect of-
a. carriage of passengers who disembark (in respect of inbound air travellers) or
b. carriage of cargo, mail or other moveable tangible assets that are disembarked in sri Lanka (in respect of 
imports of tangible articles).
 (vi) Pension payment remittances, received from the Government of sri Lanka or from Government department 
(other than in the case of pensioners who have left sri Lanka permanently on or after 01.11.2015).
 (vii) remittances by export companies in respect of registration of trademarks outside sri Lanka.
(viii)  remittances in relation to annual subscription for membership of professional bodies, or periodical subscriptions 
for journal, magazines and other publications.
 (ix) remittances in relation to course fees, examination fees, enrolment fees, living expenses and payments of 
similar nature in respect of students.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2024
3a
 (x)  remittances in respect of visa expenses, medical expenses, air travel expenses and expenses on hotel 
accommodation abroad.
 (xi) remittances of capital repayments or interest payments to any person outside sri Lanka, in respect of any loan 
granted to any person in sri Lanka.
 (xii) remittances for payments relating to participation in foreign seminars, conferences and delegations including 
registration fees.
 (xiii)  remittances made through Personnel Foreign currency accounts (PFca).
 (xiv) remittances for payment of interest, discount or realization of any gain on any sovereign bonds denominated 
in local or foreign currency issued by or on behalf of the Government of sri Lanka or interest or discount from 
sri Lanka development bonds issued by or on behalf of the Government of sri Lanka.
 (xv) remittances of interest earned in any foreign currency on or after 01.01.2020, from foreign currency account 
opened and maintained by the recipient (deposit holder) of outward remittances in any commercial bank or in 
any specialized bank with the approval of the central bank of sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “cbsL”).
 (xvi) Remittances for payment of laboratory services or for standards certification services (in respect of service 
payment on or after 01.01.2020).
 (xvii)  Remittances by an international organization to the extent specified under a diplomatic immunities law or a 
similar law or an agreement between the organization and the Government of sri Lanka, provided that the 
exemption provided under the agreement shall be broader than that provided under diplomatic immunities law 
or a similar law.
 (xviii)  remittances of payment made by the sri Lankan airlines Limited to any non–resident person for an air craft, 
software licenses or for other related services.
 (xix)  remittances of income derived by any diplomatic staff members (excludes local staff) recognized by the Foreign 
Ministry by providing a Special Identity Card (in which the tax exemption is specified), to the extent that such 
privileges are being provided in terms of the provisions of-
(a) a diplomatic immunities law or a similar law; or
(b) an act giving effect to the convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the united Nations and the 
convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the specialized agencies of the united Nations.
 (xx) remittances by the Government of a foreign country of foreign territory (diplomatic mission) to the extent 
specified under a diplomatic immunities law or a similar law.
 (xxi)  remittances of remuneration payments of employees (including remunerations of directors whether such 
remunerations received or derived by them as cash or non-cash benefits from the employment in Sri Lanka), 
if such remuneration is subjected to Advance Personal Income Tax scheme and Certificate of Income Tax 
Deduction (T- 10) is issued by the relevant employer (employer can issue a T-10 certificate to such employee 
for the employment income from the commencement of the year of assessment to the date of the certificate, 
which can be used only for this purpose).

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2024
4a
4. Procedure of Obtaining a TCC
a person who makes outward remittance (hereinafter referred to as the “applicant”) in respect of payments other than 
payments mentioned under the negative list (item 3), shall obtain a Tcc from the cGIr. On behalf of the cGIr, such 
Tcc will be issued by the commissioner of clearance and direction unit (2 nd  Floor, Inland revenue department,  
sir chittampalam a Gardiner mawatha, colombo 02) (Telephone: +94112134204 email: cd@ird.gov.Ik).
Applicant may forward the request only in the specified format for such cases with copies of invoices, agreements and 
other related documents. The Specified format (Item 9) could be downloaded from the Inland Revenue Department 
Web portal via www.ird.gov.lk.
5. General Information
 (i)  applicable W hT rate will be decided based on the provisions of the Ira  as amended, but subject to the provisions 
of the respective double Tax avoidance agreement (hereinafter referred to as “dT aa”) in place between sri 
Lanka and the other country. The Tax Residency Certificate of the withholdee has to be submitted to seek benefits 
of the applicable dT aa.
 (ii)  The person who makes the remittance shall pay the due WhT liability by applying the tax rate on the gross amount 
(gross amount of the invoice) and only the net amount is allowed to be remitted. In a case where the person wants 
to remit the total amount of any invoice, the invoiced amount should be treated as the net amount and the relevant 
withholding tax should be calculated based on the grossed-up amount.
 (iii) The person is required to apply the currency rate (selling rate) published in the Website of the cbsL on the date 
of remittance to convert foreign currency amount into sri Lanka rupee amount.
 (iv) relevant WhT shall be paid to the cGIr and only the balance amount is allowed to be remitted after the payment 
of tax.
6. Procedure for Licensed Commercial Banks and Authorized Dealers Engaged in Outward Remittances
Licensed commercial banks and authorized dealers are not required to seek a tax clearance certificate from persons 
who make the outward remittance in respect of payments mentioned in the Negative List (item 3). however, required 
information shall be collected to provide the information to be submitted to the cGIr as mentioned under item 7.
For all other outward remittances, every licensed commercial bank and authorized dealer shall request a valid Tcc 
issued by the cGIr, prior to the outward remittances.
The licensed commercial bank or authorized dealer shall not collect the due WhT of the Wha  in any circumstances.
7. Requirement of Record Keeping and Submission of Information
 (i) all commercial banks and authorized dealers who have authority to engage in the foreign outward remittances 
shall maintain the records in following schedule in respect of all outward remittances (including payments in the 
Negative List), except for remittances for import of any tangible goods.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2024
5a
 (ii) The licensed commercial bank or authorized dealer shall submit the monthly schedule (in above format) by e-mail attachment 
in excel format to cd@ird.gov.Ik on or before 10 th  day of the subsequent month. The commissioner of clearance and direction 
Unit will forward a reply mail to confirm the receipt of the schedule to the respective person.
 (iii) Whas’ are required to declare the relevant payment details in the annual statement of Withholding Tax/advance Income 
Tax of the respective year of assessment.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2024
6a
8. for the purpose of this regulations, “Authorized Dealer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the 
foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
9. format of the Tax Clearance Application


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'11
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2024
7a
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
EOG  12 - 0106