

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1411
PAGE
Post - Vacant … … … 1402 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"257- 2021 foieïn¾ ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.12'03 
No. 2,257– FRIDAY, 03 DECEMBER, 2021
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY, GAZETTE,
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th December, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10h December, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
,Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1399 - B 082293 - 5,403 (12/2021)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1400
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Ofﬁ cers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proﬁ ciency in one of the ofﬁ cial 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  pro ﬁ ciency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1401
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1402
Posts – Vacant
University Hospital 
GENERAL SIR JOHN KOTELAWALA DEFENCE UNIVERSITY
Vacancies
(General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University Hospital calls applications from  
qualiﬁ ed persons for the following posts.)
1. Medical Consultant - Grade I
 Consultant General Physician
 Consultant VP OPD
 Consultant Emergency Medicine Physician
 Consultant Intensivist
 Consultant Paediatric Cardiologist
 Consultant Chemical Pathologist
 Consultant Nephrologists
 Consultant Gastroenterologist
 Consultant Neurologist
 Consultant Vascular Surgeon
 Consultant Transplantation Surgeon (Ability to Transplant, Kidney, Liver and Biliary duct)
 Consultant Radiologist
 Consultant Anesthetist (Special interest in Cardiothoracic Anesthesia)
 Consultant Cardiothoracic Surgeon
 Consultant Maxillofacial Surgeon
 Consultant Orthodontist
Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. Medical Of ﬁ cers and Dental Surgeon who are registered/registerable in the Sri Lanka Medical Council according to 
the Medical (Amendment) Act. No. 28 of 2018.
OR
 II. Medical Of ﬁ cers/Dental Surgeons with valid full registration of Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC)
AND
 III. Doctor of Medicine (MD) Master of Surgery (MS) in the relevant specialty with Board Certi ﬁ cation of Post -Graduate 
Institute of Medicine (PGIM), University of Colombo, Sri Lanka (Appendix I of the Gazette (Extraordinary) 
No. 1883/17 dated 11.10.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka).
AND
 IV . "Certi ﬁ cate of Good Standing" issued by Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC)
Salary Scale
MC 1-2 - Rs. (91,645-12x2,700 - Rs.124,045)
The Medical Consultant Grade I will be placed on MC 1-2 Step 1 - Rs. 91,645.00
2. Medical Ofﬁ cer - Grade I
Qualiﬁ cations :

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1403
 I. Medical Of ﬁ cer with valid full Registration of Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) for practicing as a Medical 
Ofﬁ cer.
AND
 II. A minimum of six (06) years of experience as a Grade II Medical Of ﬁ cer in institutions coming under the Ministry 
of Health or Hospitals registered with private Health Services Regulatory Council of Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka 
under the category of "Private Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Maternity Homes".
AND
 III. A recognized post graduate quali ﬁ cation mentioned in Appendix II of the 
Gazette (Extraordinary) No: 1883/17 dated 
11.10.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
AND
 IV . "Certi ﬁ cate of Good standing" issued by the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC).
Salary Scale :
 MO 1 -1 Rs. (58,675 - 3x 1,375 - 7x 1,385 - 2x 1,910 - 10x2,270 - Rs. 99,015)
 The Medical Of ﬁ cer Grade I will be placed on MO 1 -1 Step - 14 -  Rs. 78,585.00
3. Medical Ofﬁ cer - Grade II
Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. Medical Of ﬁ cer with valid full Registration of Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) for practicing as a Medical 
Ofﬁ cer.
AND
 II. A minimum of two (02) years of experience as a Medical Of ﬁ cer in institutions coming under the Ministry of Health 
or Hospitals registered with private Health Services Regulatory Council of Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka under the 
category of "Private Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Maternity Homes".
AND
 III. "Certi ﬁ cate of Good standing" issued by the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC)
Salary Scale :
 MO 1 -1 Rs. (58,675 - 3x 1,375 - 7x 1,385 - 2x 1,910 - 10x2,270 - Rs. 99,015)
 The Medical Of ﬁ cer Grade II will be placed on MO 1 -1 Step 5 -  Rs. 64,185.00
4. Medical Ofﬁ cer - Preliminary Grade 
Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. Medical Of ﬁ cers with valid full Registration of Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) for practicing as a Medical 
Ofﬁ cer.
AND
 II.  "Certi ﬁ cate of Good standing" issued by the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC)
Salary Scale :
 MO 1 -1 Rs. (58,675 - 3x 1,375 - 7x 1,385 - 2x 1,910 - 10x2,270 - Rs. 99,015)
 The Medical Of ﬁ cer Preliminary Grade  will be placed on MO 1 -1 Step 2 -  Rs. 60,050.00

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1404
5. Matron - Special Grade Nursing Ofﬁ cer
Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. Should be a Special Grade Nursing Of ﬁ cer.
AND
 II. Should have successfully Completed the 1 1/2 Year diploma which include ward Management and Supervision / 
Teaching and Supervising / Public Health Nursing and Midwifery/ Psychiatry conducted by the National Institute 
for Nursing Education/ Post Basic Nursing School and should have completed 05 years of experience in a Grade I 
Nursing Ofﬁ cer (Hospital Service, Education, Public Health) Post.
AND
 III. Having completed the 3rd Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination.
AND
 IV . Having earned all due salary increments and completed a satisfactory service period during the immediately 
preceding 05 years.
AND
 V . Performance above satisfactory level in the 05 years prior to the date of promotion as per approved performance 
appraisal procedure.
Age Limit :
 Must be not less than 25 years and not more than 55 years.
Salary Scale :
 MT8  Rs. (50,970 - 10 x 1,385 - 8 x 1,910 -  Rs. 80,100)
 * Matrons (Special Grade) are placed 4th step of MT 8 - Rs. 55,125
6. Nursing Sister
Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. Should be a Grade I Nursing Of ﬁ cer.
AND
 II. Should be a Nursing Of ﬁ cer who has followed and passed the 1 1/2 year diploma course in Ward Management and 
Supervision / Teaching and Supervising/ Public Health Nursing and Midwifery/ Mental Health Nursing, conducted 
by the National Nursing Training School or Post Primary Nursing School.
AND
 III. Having passed the 2nd Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination.
AND
 IV . Having earned all due salary increments and completed an active and satisfactory service period during the preceding 
5 years.
AND
 V . Performance above satisfactory level in the 05 years prior to the date of promotion as per approved performance 
appraisal procedure.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1405
Age Limit :
 Must be not less than 25 years and not more than 55 years.
Salary Scale :
 MT 7  Rs. (33,295 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730 - 5 x 750 -  Rs. 59,805)
 * The Nursing sister is placed at  MT 7 step 23. - Rs. 45,735.00
7.  Nursing Of ﬁ cer
Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. Shall possess a BSc degree in Nursing or Diploma in Nursing from a recognized University by the  Nursing Council 
or the Ministry of Health.
AND
 II. Shall have passed all subjects in Biology or Mathematics or Agriculture Streams (Except Common General Test) 
in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination or three (03) subjects of the old syllabus in the same streams in one 
sitting.
AND
 III. Shall have passed six (06) subjects in not more than two sittings with four (04) credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil 
Language, Mathematics, Science and English at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
Age Limit :
 Shall not be less than 22 years and not more than 45 years.
Salary Scale :
 MT 7  Rs. (33,295 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730 - 5 x 750 -  Rs. 59,805)
 The Nursing Of ﬁ cer will be placed at  MT 7 step 01. - Rs. 33,295.00
General Conditions :
 1. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 2. Shall be adequate physical and mental ﬁ tness to discharge the duties of the post well, and to serve in the General 
Sir John Kotelawala Defence University Hospital or at any other place in the island, as may be determined by the 
University Administration.
 3. Shall be of excellent moral character.
 4. The applicants should have completed all requisite quali ﬁ cations by the closing date of applications.
 5. These posts are permanent and the Medical Of ﬁ cer Preliminary Grade and Nursing Ofﬁ cer Grade III posts are subject 
to a probation period of three (03) years, while ofﬁ cers who had served in the posts of Medical Consultant, Medical 
Ofﬁ cer Grade I, Medical Of ﬁ cer Grade II posts in the public service, are subject to a probation period of one (01) 
year.
 6. Contribution of the employee to Employees Provident Fund (EPF) is 10% and the University will contribute 15%  for 
(EPF) and 3% for Employees Trust Fund (ETF). (Subject to revisions that may be introduced by Parliament by law).
 7. Duly completed applications with certi ﬁ ed copies of relevant certi ﬁ cates shall be submitted under registered post 
to reach "Executive Director, University Hospital, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University, Werahera" or 
edassistant_uh@kdu.ac.lk before on 17.12.2021. The post applied should be indicated on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1406
 8. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University Hospital reserves the right to shortlist prospective applicants.
 9. Incomplete of late applications and those which do not comply with the prescribed format will be rejected.
 10. Application and other relevant details could be downloaded from the KDU Website (www.kdu.ac.lk).
 www.kdu.ac.lk
 General Kamal Gunarathne (Retd),
 WWV RWP RSP USP ndc psc Mphil,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Defence.
12 - 346
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS
Posts Vacant
APPLICATIONS are invited from the qualiﬁ ed Sri Lankan applicants for the following posts vacant in the Department of 
Cultural Affairs.
 Post   Number of Vacancies
 Still Photographer  01
 Video Camera Operator 01
 Audio/Visual Editor 01
02. Terms of Engagement and Conditions :
This post is permanent and pensionable. You will be subject to the decision of the Government made in principle in future 
with regard to the Pension Method entitled to these posts.
 Salary Code : MT 01 - 2016
 Salary Scale : Rs. 29,840 - 10 x 300 - 11 x 350 - 10 x 560 - 10x 660 - Rs. 48,890/-
03. Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. Educational Qualiﬁ cations : Should have passed the General Certiﬁ cate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination 
in six (06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and two other subjects in one sitting.
 II. Professional qualiﬁ cations :
 1. Still Photographer - Should have followed and obtained a certi ﬁ cate in Photography Course which is not less 
than Level 05 of National V ocational Qualiﬁ cation (NVQ).
 2. Video Camera Operator - Should have followed and obtained a certi ﬁ cate in Video Camera Operating Course 
which is not less than Level 05 of National V ocational Qualiﬁ cation (NVQ).
 3. Audio /Visual Editor - Should have followed and obtained a certi ﬁ cate in Audio/Visual Editing course which 
is not less than Level 05 of National V ocational Qualiﬁ cation (NVQ).

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1407
 III. Experience : Experience in the relevant ﬁ eld will be considered as a special qualiﬁ cation.
 IV . Physical Fitness : All applicants should be physically and mentally ﬁ t to serve in any part of the island and to 
perform the duties in the post.
 V.  Other Qualiﬁ cations :
 i. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Applicant shall bear an excellent moral character.
 iii  Shall have completed all quali ﬁ cations as speciﬁ ed in Serial No. 03 of the notice of calling for applications.
04. Age Limit : Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years.
05. Method of Recruitment :
 I. Recruitments will be made on the recommendation of an Interview Board to test the eligibility and a Professional 
Test as ordered by the Director of Cultural Affairs. Recruitments will be made in order of merit of the total marks 
obtained both from the interview and the Professional Test and as per the existing number of vacancies.
* Interview to test the eligibility
Headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass 
Mark
1. Additional Educational Qualiﬁ cations
• Should have passed the General Certi ﬁ cate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
Examination in six (06) subjects with Credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English, 
Mathematics and two other subjects in one sitting. In addition to those subjects,
1. Subjects in G.C.E. Ordinary Level - 10 marks
2. Subjects in G.C.E. Advanced Level - 10 marks
20
2. Additional Professional Qualiﬁ cations
• National V ocational Quali ﬁ cation (NVQ) Level 05 with relevant to the job ﬁ eld. 
For other professional certiﬁ cates with relevant to the ﬁ eld other than the above.
1. National V ocational Qualiﬁ cation Certiﬁ cates, Diploma etc.
25
3. Professional Experience
• 3 marks per year for 10 years professional experience in the ﬁ eld of applying
30
4. Information Technology/Computer Literacy
• For the Certi ﬁ cate Courses, Diploma Courses or Higher Diploma Courses on 
Information Technology/Computer Literacy
10
5. Language Proﬁ ciency
• For a Certi ﬁ cate Course, Diploma Course or a Higher Diploma Course on 
Language Proﬁ ciency
10
6. Competency shown at the Interview
• Leadership                     02 marks
• Communication Skills   02 marks
• Personality                     01 mark
05
Total 100

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1408
Professional Test
1. Still Photographer
Headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. Operating a camera and recording pictures 60
2. Supply of light and usage of modern technology 20
3. Taking clear photographs 20
Total 100 40%
2. Video Camera Operator
Headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. Video camera and accessories
2. Selection of scenes as suitable for the coverage and collection of data
3. Using natural light with relevant to television scenes and using electric
 light for videoing
4. Skills on news editing using computer technology
5. Technological knowledge on CD recording and usage of relevant accessories
6. General knowledge on the video recording inside the television studios.
30
20
20
10
10
10
100 40%
3. Audio/Visual Editor
Headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass Mark
1. Audio/Visual Editing and operating the relevant instruments.
2. Skills on editing using computer technology
3. General knowledge on editing inside the editing studios
40
40
20
Total 100 40%
6. Applications should be furnished in A4 (8.27" x 11.69") size papers, as per the specimen given below and should be sent 
by registered post to reach the Director, Department of Cultural Affairs, 8th Floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla on or before 
31.12.2021. Incomplete applications and those which are not in comply with the specimen application will be rejected 
without notice. Keeping a copy of your application is advantageous. (The post applied should be indicated in the top left 
-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application)
 Director,
 Department of Cultural Affairs,
8th Floor, Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1409
Application for the Post of  ................................. in the Department of Cultural Affairs
01.  Name with initials : ..................................................................................................... .......................................    
02.  Name in full : ........................................................................................................... ............................................   
03.  Date of birth : .......................................................................................................... ............................................   
04.  Age as at 31.12.2021 : Years:                          Months :                  Days :   
05.  National ID Number : ..................................................................................................... ........................................   
06.  Gender : ................................................................................................................. ................................................
07.  Address : ................................................................................................................ ..................................................
08.  Telephone No. : .......................................................................................................... ...............................................
09.  Educational Quali ﬁ cations
  I. (G. C. E. Ordinary Level)
   Year                                                                                                           Index No.
   
10.  Professional Quali ﬁ cations
  ............................................................................................................................. ......................................................
  ............................................................................................................................. ......................................................
  ............................................................................................................................. ......................................................
11.  Experience
  ............................................................................................................................. ......................................................
  ............................................................................................................................. ......................................................
  ............................................................................................................................. ......................................................
I hereby conﬁ rm that the particular furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my konowledge, I am 
aware that if any information contained in the application is found to be incorrect or false, I will be liable to disqualiﬁ cation 
if the inaccuracy is revealed before the selection and to dismissal if it is so revealed after the appointment.
 Date ........ ........................................................................  Signature of the applicant ........... ............................
12 - 350
(For Ofﬁ ce use)
Subjects Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1410
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
Amendment of closing date of applications for recruitment of Registrar of Muslim  Marriages, 
IT is kindly notiﬁ ed that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Muslim Marriages, Registrar which 
was published by me in the Gazette No. 2243 of 27.08.2021 is extended as 15.12.2021.
02. Please note that the closing date of applications only changed all other details in the said Gazette Notiﬁ cation remain 
unchanged.
 W. M. M. B. W EERASEKARA,
 Registrar General.
12-374
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
Amendment of closing date of applications for recruitment of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths 
IT is kindly notiﬁ ed that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriages, Births and Deaths 
Registrar which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2243 of 27.08.2021 is extended as 15.12.2021.
02. Please note that the closing date of applications only changed all other details in the said Gazette Notiﬁ cation remain 
unchanged.
    W. M. M. B. WEERASEKARA,
    Registrar General.
12-375
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT
BADULLA DISTRICT
Amendment of closing date of applications for recruitment of Registrar of Marriages, 
Births and Deaths (Tamil Medium)
IT is kindly notiﬁ ed that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriages, Births and Deaths 
Registrar which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2243 of 27.08.2021 is extended as 15.12.202.
02. Please note that the closing date of applications only changed all other details in the said Gazette Notiﬁ cation remain 
unchanged.
 W. M. M. B. W EERASEKARA
 Registrar General.
12 - 376

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1411
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Limited competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of 
Sri Lanka Agricultural Service - 2021
APPLICATIONS are invited from Public Of ﬁ cers who have completed the following quali ﬁ cations for the limited 
Competitive Examination for the recruitment of ofﬁ cers to the 148 posts mentioned in Section 1, Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
Agricultural Service under the provisions set out in the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service Minute. These qualiﬁ cations should 
be completed by the last date of calling applications.
In this notiﬁ cation, the "Minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service” includes the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service Minute 
published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1880/26 and dated 19.09.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and all amendments made to it so far and to be made in the future, "Appointing Authority" shall mean Public Service 
Commission, Secretary, shall mean the Secretary of the Ministry - in - charge of the subject of Agriculture, "Service" shall 
mean Sri Lanka Agricultural Service and "Appointment" shall mean an appointment  to the Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
Agricultural Service and "Written Examination" shall mean Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III 
of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service Grade 2021 and the term "Ofﬁ cer" unless otherwise speciﬁ ed shall mean an ofﬁ cer of 
the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service. The closing date of applications will be 3rd of January 2022. This examination will be 
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations in March 2022 in Colombo only.
Note : If candidates, who have applied for Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment of ofﬁ cers to Grade III of the 
Sri Lanka Agricultural Service as per application calling notiﬁ cation published in the Government Gazette notiﬁ cation No. 
1929 dated 21.08.2015, expect to appear for the examination they have to reapply. The list of names of those candidates who 
have submitted applications will be published in the website of the Department of Examination of Sri Lanka and the website 
of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is not necessary to pay examination fees at reapplying  by  them.
1. Posts Vacant / Number of Vacancies
Stream Post No. of Vacancies Code of the post
Agricultural 
Development
Assistant Director of Agriculture 
(Agricultural Development)
85 1
Agricultural Research Assistant Director of Agriculture 
(Agricultural Research)
59 2
Agricultural Economics Assistant Director of Agriculture
(Agricultural Economics)
04 3
Note -
In the limited competitive examination, one applicant can apply for only one of the above stream posts. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1412
2. Method of Recruitment :
2.1 Written Examination : 
The written examination consists of the following two question papers and the syllabus is given in the ﬁ rst appendix of this 
notiﬁ cation.
Question Paper Time (hours) Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Intelligence Test Paper 1 1/4 100 40
Subject Matter Paper (In accordance with the 
relevant post)
2 100 40
2.2 In order to pass the written examination, 40% or more marks are required for each question paper.
2.3 Structured Interview : Marks will be awarded to seniority and basic quali ﬁ cations will be scrutinized. A number of 
applicants not exceeding twice the number of vacancies out of the applicants who pass the examination by obtaining 
40% of marks for each paper shall be called for the interview.
2.3.1. Method of awarding Marks for Seniority at the interview : The period of active service of an applicant with effect 
from the date of fulﬁ llment of prescribed qualiﬁ cations up to the closing date of applications shall only be reckoned 
for the purpose of awarding marks for seniority. Subject to a maximum of 30 marks, at a rate of two (02) marks 
for each year of such period of active and satisfactory service and at a rate of one (01) mark for a period of service 
extending to 180 days or more shall be awarded.
2.4 Subsequent to submitting the marks obtained for seniority to the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, the 
Department of Examinations will prepare ﬁ nal priority list of limited examination by adding marks for seniority and 
marks of written examination and forwarded it to the Public Service Commission. Recruitments will be made on the 
order of merit of that priority list.
03. Terms and Conditions of Engagement :
3.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. Of ﬁ cers recruited to the Public Service on or after  01.01.2016 should be 
subject to the policy decisions taken by the government in the future in respect of pension scheme they are entitled to.
3.2 Further, any of ﬁ cer who will be appointed to any of above posts should make his/her contributions to Widows'/
Widowers' and Orphans' pension fund as stipulated by the government from time to time.
3.3 Of ﬁ cers selected should be agreeable to serve in any part of the island.
3.4 All Of ﬁ cers in the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service are subject to serve in all Provincial Public Services as required. For 
this purpose the Ofﬁ cer will be temporarily released to a post in the Provincial Public Service. Such term of service 
will be determined on the consent between the relevant Provincial Authority and the Appointing Authority according 
to exigencies of service.
 
(a) Provincial authority will issue a letter of appointment to the relevant of ﬁ cer subject to the conditions of 
release from the service. The ofﬁ cers appointed to Provincial Councils will be subject to the transfers within 
the Province made by the relevant Provincial Authority.
 (b) An of ﬁ cer shall be subject to the administration and disciplinary control of the Public Service Commission, 
even during his period of service in the Provincial Public Service.
 (c)  An of ﬁ cer who released to the provincial public service shall return to his/her substantial post at the end of 
the period he/she so released.
3.5 Of ﬁ cers appointed to Grade III on the results of Limited Competitive Examination will be subject to a period of one 
year acting. Of ﬁ cers appointed through Limited recruitment shall pass the First Ef ﬁ ciency bar examination within 
three (03) years.
3.6 Skills Development : Skills Development training will be provided to the of ﬁ cers recruited to the service through 
one (01) month training programme to acquire the skills on trends of Socio Economic and Cultural in relation to 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1413
agricultural development and job environment by the Department of Agriculture or any other institute (Example : 
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration) identi ﬁ ed by the Department. At the end of the programme, a 
certiﬁ cate will be awarded after an assessment. This certiﬁ cate should be obtained for the conﬁ rmation in the service.
3.7 Selected candidates will be placed in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service subject to the General terms and 
conditions governing appointments in the Public Service, provisions of the Service Minute of Agricultural services 
of Sri Lanka, Regulations of the department, provisions of the Establishments Code and Financial Regulations of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the Rules of Procedure of the Public Service Commission (hereinafter 
referred to as Procedural Rules) published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary  No: 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 and any 
amendments already made or to be made hereinafter to the above Terms, Conditions, Orders, Provisions, Regulations 
and Rules.
3.8 Recruited of ﬁ cers are required to obtain the competency in the second languages within prescribed period as per 
provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020 and Circulars incidental thereto.
04. Salary Structure and Annual Salary Scale :
 The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned to these posts as per Public Administration Circular 03/2016 is as 
follows:
 SL - 01-2016- Rs. 47,615 - 1335 x 10 - 1630 x 8 - 2170 x 17 - Rs. 110,895/-
 Recruitment will be made to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service.
 Initial salary step of Grade III - Rs. 47,615/-
05. Qualiﬁ cations
5.1 Basic Qualiﬁ cations :
5.1.1 For Streams of Agricultural Development
 (a) An of ﬁ cer who holds a post of Agricultural Instructor in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
OR
 (b) An of ﬁ cer who holds a post of  Agricultural Instructor and has completed at least 10 years active and 
satisfactory period of service in the Sri Lanka Technological Service or Provincial Technological Service
OR
 (c) An of ﬁ cer of the Associate Of ﬁ cer Service category who has obtained a four year Bachelor's degree in 
Agriculture from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission and has completed ﬁ ve (05) 
years active and satisfactory period of service under the Department of Agriculture of Provincial Departments 
of Agriculture and has directly involved or be involving in the duties of the Department of Agriculture or the 
Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
OR
 (d) An of ﬁ cer who holds a post of Garden Assistant and has completed 10 years active and satisfactory period of 
service.
 (e) An of ﬁ cer who holds a post of Agricultural Instructor of Garden Assistant possessing a degree in Agricultural 
Science or Science and has completed 05 years active and satisfactory period of service.
5.1.2 
For Stream of Agricultural Economics
 (a) An of ﬁ cer who holds a post of Economist Assistant and has completed ﬁ ve (05) years active and satisfactory 
period of service.
OR

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1414
 (b) An of ﬁ cer of the Associate Of ﬁ cer Service category who has obtained a four year Bachelor's degree in 
Agriculture from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission and has completed ﬁ ve (05) 
years active and satisfactory period of service under the Department of Agriculture or Provincial Departments 
of Agriculture and has directly involved or be involving in the duties of the Department of Agriculture or the 
Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
5.1.3 For Stream of Agricultural Research
 
(a) An of ﬁ cer who holds a post of Research Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land Evaluation Of ﬁ cer in Special 
Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
OR
 (b) An ofﬁ cer who holds a post of Research Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land Evaluation Of ﬁ cer and has 
completed a minimum period of ten (10) years active and satisfactory service in the Sri Lanka Technological 
Service.
OR
 
(c) An ofﬁ cer of the Associate Of ﬁ cer Service category who has obtained a four year Bachelor's degree in 
Agriculture from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or four year degree in 
Bachelor of Science in the subjects of Botany, Chemistry or Zoology obtained from a University recognized 
by the University Grant Commission and has completed ﬁ ve (05) years active and satisfactory period of 
service under the Department of Agriculture or Provincial Departments of Agriculture and has directly 
involved or be involving in the duties of the Department of Agriculture or the Provincial Departments of 
Agriculture.
OR
 
(d) An of ﬁ cer who holds a post of Research Assistant, Soil Surveyor or Land Evaluation Of ﬁ cer possessing 
a degree in Agricultural Science or Science and has completed a period of ﬁ ve (05) years active and 
satisfactory service.
Note :
1. Having held a post of Agriculture Monitoring Of ﬁ cer or Program Assistant (Agriculture) as at 18.09.2009 being the date 
on which the Gazette Extra Ordinary No. 1619/25 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka was published by 
amending the Minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service as per ruling given as per supreme court Application No. 
61/2006 and being an of ﬁ cer holding a post of Agriculture Monitoring Of ﬁ cer or Program Assistant who completed 
ﬁ ve (05) year active service will be considered as a basic quali ﬁ cation to apply under limited recruitment and those 
ofﬁ cers could apply for limited recruitment only under one stream among Agricultural Development, Agricultural 
Economics or Agricultural Research Streams.
5.2 Physical Requirements :
Every applicant shall be physically ﬁ t in all respect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
5.3 Other Quali ﬁ cations :
 (i) Applicants must be of excellent Moral Character.
 (ii) Applicants should ful ﬁ ll required qualiﬁ cations at the closing date of calling application.
 (iii) Concessions or promotions granted to an applicant with retrospective effect, subsequent to the date 
speciﬁ ed in the noti ﬁ cation for calling applications will not be treated as ful ﬁ lling of the prescribed 
qualiﬁ cations for the examination.
 (iv) The of ﬁ cer should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the provisions set out in the 
Public Service Commission Circular No. 01/2020.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1415
06. Examination Fee
6.1 Exam fee is Rs. 1200/-
 The receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee to any post of ﬁ ce in the island by cash to be credited to 
government revenue under the revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should be 
afﬁ xed in the relevant place from one of it edges so as to be unglued. Money orders and stamps are not accepted for 
the examination fee and the examination fee so paid will not be refunded or changed for other examination in any 
circumstance. Keeping a photocopy of the receipt would be an advantage.
07. Instructions to Prepare the Application and apply to the Examination :
 7.1 The applicants, who apply for the Limited Competitive examination, should forward only one application. The 
applicants, who apply for the Limited Competitive examination, should prepare their application in compliance with 
the specimen appended at the end of this notiﬁ cation. The application should be prepared on an 8 1/2 x 12 inches (A4 
size) paper using both sides of the paper and should be clearly ﬁ lled by the applicant in his/her own hand writing . It 
should be specially  noted that the application is required to be prepared as from No. 01 to 06 of the application on the 
ﬁ rst page and remainder on pages 02 and 03.
7.2 Applications which are not in accordance with the specimen application, not completed in every respect, altered using 
correction ﬂ uid and the applications in which code numbers and other information are scratched out will be rejected 
without notice. It is noted that a photo copy of the applications posted should essentially be kept with the applicant and 
the applicant shall be ready to produce it if necessary at the time of calling for the interview.
7.3 The name of the examination appeared either Sinhala or Tamil Language in the application is required to be printed 
in English Language also. Applications should be sent only by registered post to reach the "Commissioner General of 
Examinations, Organization (Establishment and Foreign Examination) Branch, Sri Lanka Department of Examination 
P.O. Box 1503, Colombo " on or before 03.01.2022. the words "Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service - 2021" should be clearly marked on the top left hand corner of the envelop 
enclosing the application.
7.4 Applications received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained. The applicants who apply for the 
Limited Competitive Examination should send their applications through the Director General of Agriculture in case 
of Department of Agriculture, Provincial Director of Agriculture in case of Provincial Department of Agriculture, 
Secretary of the Ministry in - Charge of the subject of Agriculture in case of Ministry of Agriculture.
Note -  Applications which are not in accordance with the specimen appears at the end of the notiﬁ cation, not completed in 
every respect and not in order will be rejected without any notice. Applications should not be addressed personally to 
ofﬁ cials of the Department/Provincial Departments/Ministry of Agriculture. No compliant that an application has been 
lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
08. Admission to the Examination :
8.1 The signature of the applicant should be certi ﬁ ed in the application and in the admission form for the examination. 
The signature of an applicant working in any State /Provincial Public Service or Public Corporation should be attested 
by the Head of the Institution or an authorized ofﬁ cer.
 An applicant must sit the Examination at the Examination Hall assigned to him/her. Every applicant should surrender 
the admission card to the supervisor of the examination hall of the ﬁ rst day presenting himself/ herself for the 
Examination. It is the responsibility of every applicant to answer the question paper prescribed for the examination 
to which he/she presents himself/herself. A set of rules to be followed by all applicants is published in this 
Gazette. 
All applicants are subject to the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in connection with 
this examination. An applicant who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment at the discretion of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations.
8.2 Issuance of the admission cards to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite quali ﬁ cations 
to sit for the examination.
8.3 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to the applicants who have paid the examination 
fee on or before the date of receipt of the application and submitted the completed application along with the relevant 
receipt on the presumption that only those who have the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in the 
Gazette Notiﬁ cation have 
applied. The Sri Lanka Department of Examinations will publish a notice in newspapers soon after the issuance of 
admission cards to the applicants. An applicant who fails to procedure his/her admission card will not be permitted to 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1416
sit the examination any applicant who does not receive his/her admission cards two or three days after the notiﬁ cation, 
should notify that effect to the Department of Examination as mentioned in this notiﬁ cation. Applicants are informed 
to notify to the Department of Examinations indicating full name, NIC number and address of the applicant and 
keeping the copy of application which is retained by you, copy of receipt of payment of examination fee and copy of 
the receipt of registration of the application issued when application was sent  by registered post in hand and in case 
of an applicant living outside Colombo, to obtain a copy of the admission cards by fax, it would be more productive 
to notify to the Department of Examinations by faxing a request including your above information and a fax number.
09. Identiﬁ cation of the Applicant :
 An applicant will be required to prove his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject he/she at appears. For this purpose only the following documents will be accepted.
  a) National Identity card
  b) A valid passport
  c) A valid driving license
 Furthermore, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their faces and ears in order to prove 
their identity. The candidate who refuses to prove their identity in the said manner shall not be allowed to enter the 
examination hall. Moreover, the candidates should remain in the examination hall from the time of entering the 
examination hall up to leaving upon completion of the examination without covering the face and ears enabling the 
invigilators to identify the candidate.
10. Scheme of Examination :
10.1 Medium of the Examination :
 The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The language of the examination given in the 
application will not be allowed to change later.
10.2 An applicant must sit for all papers of the examination in one and the same language.
11. Competitive Examination Procedure and relevant syllabus :
All applicants shall answer the question papers 1 and 2 in accordance with the syllabus indicated in ﬁ rst appendix.
Syllabus for each post is indicated in second Appendix.
12. No certiﬁ cate should be attached to the application. Applicants should prepare to produce the originals of the certiﬁ cates 
in support of the qualiﬁ cations stated in their applications only at the interview.
13. Furnishing false Information :
If an applicant is found to be ineligible his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to during or after t he 
examination. If any particulars furnished by an applicant found to be false or if  he/she has willfully suppressed any material, 
fact he/she will be liable dismissal from the Public Service.
All applicants are subject to the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in connection with this 
examination. An applicant who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations.
14. If any confusion arises about applications or method of selection, the decision of the Appointing Authority shall be 
deemed ﬁ nal.
15. The ﬁ nal decision to ﬁ ll all or part of existing vacancies will be taken by the Appointing Authority.
16. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinahala, Tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
                 By order of the Public Service Commission,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Agriculture,
Rajamalwatta Lane,
Battaramulla.
On this day of 24th November, 2021

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1417
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISION
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE GRADE III OF THE 
SRI LANKA AGRICULTURAL SERVICE - 2020 (2021)
01. (i)   Full Name (In English capital letters)  : ................................................................................................................
    Ex. HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDENA
  (ii) Name with initials, stating the initials at the end : 
    (a) In Sinhala / Tamil : .................................................................................................. ......
    (b) In English (Ex. GUNAWARDENA, H. M. S. K.)
  (iii) Full name : ........................................................................................................... .......................
   (a) In Sinhala / Tamil
2.0. (i)   Permanent Address : (Admission card will be posted to this address)
    (a) In Sinhala/Tamil : .................................................................................................... ..............................
    (b) In English Capital letters : .......................................................................................... ..........................
  (ii) Of ﬁ cial Address : (If an ofﬁ cer in the Public Service / Provincial Public Service his / her ofﬁ cial address should 
be stated. Any change in the address should be notiﬁ ed immediately)
    (a) In Sinhala/Tamil : .................................................................................................... ..............................
    (b) In English Capital letters : .......................................................................................... ..........................
3.0. Sex : (Indicate the relevant Number in the cage)                                         
Male - 0
Female - 1
4.0  National Identity Card No :
(For Ofﬁ ce use only)
Post and No. of the post applied. Refer 
Para 1 & 5 of the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation
Post Code of the 
post
1.
2.
3.
Medium of the examination (vide. Para. 10) of the Gazette noti ﬁ cation 
indicate the relevent No. in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
If apply for the post of Assistant Director of Agriculture (Agricultural 
Research), the part of the question paper selected to be answered is in 
accordance with ﬁ rst Appendix, if (A) indicate ''I" in the cage and if "B" 
indicate "2" in the cage. This will not be allowed to change letter.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1418
05.  Telephone No.: 
06.  (i) Date of Birth :        Year :                               Month :                      Date :
  (ii) Age as at the closing date of applications : Years :                           Months :                   Days :
07.  State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka : (indicate the relevent word in the cage) Yes/ No
08.  Educational Quali ﬁ cations :
   8.1 Degree Quali ﬁ cations :
09. State whether you have sat Limited competitive Examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service 
Before ? If so indicate the year/ years :...........................................................................................................
10.  State the quali ﬁ cations obtained by applicants who apply for Limited Competitive examination to be eligible sit for 
the examination under paragraph 05 of this notiﬁ cation
11.  Have you ever been convicted in a Court of law for any offence? Yes/ No.
  If yes, give details ........................................................................................................ .......................................
12.  Particulars on the Receipt obtained on payment of Examination Fee :
   (i) The post of ﬁ ce to which Examination Fee was paid : ......................................................................................
Present Post Post eligible to be recruited under limited 
recruitment
Date of obtaining eligibility 
to apply for the post of
1. Research Assistant
2. Soil Surveyor
3. Land evolution Ofﬁ cer
4. Agricultural Instructor
5. Economic Assistant
6. Garden Assistant
7. Associate Ofﬁ cers Service Category (State       
    the post)
1. ADA (Agricultural Research)
2. ADA (Agricultural Department)
3. ADA (Agricultural Economics)
ADA (Agricultural 
Research)
ADA (Agricultural 
Development) or  
ADA (Agricultural 
Economics). (Date 
of completing the 
qualiﬁ cations as Para 5.1 of 
the notiﬁ cation)
Degree/ Degrees 
obtained
Whether the Degree/ 
Degrees obtained is 
a four  year Degree/ 
Degrees
Academic year 
and the valid 
date of the degree 
(Indicate clearly)
University/
 Universities
Subject Pass Medium
1.
2.
3.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1419
  (ii) Receipt No. : ............................................................................     Date .................... ................
  (iii) Amount paid : .........................................................
13.  Declaration of the applicant :
  I, do here by certify that the particulars given by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that if 
any particular contained herein is found to be false of incorrect, I am liable to disquali ﬁ cation if detected before selection 
and to dismissal with immediate effect, if detected after the selection and , I will be responsible for any lapse caused while 
preparing the application. Further, I agree to abide by the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations, I 
also declare that I have paid the prescribed Examination fee and submitted only one application.
Date :.....................................................                                               .........................................................................,
                                                                                                                        Signatu re of Applicant.
14. Certi ﬁ cate of the Head of the Department / Head of the Provincial Department / Secretary in - charge of the subject of 
Agriculture
  I, hereby certify that Mr. / Mrs./ Miss. ....................... is employed in this Department/ Provincial Council as a .... ..........
........................., his/ her work and conduct are satisfactory, he/ She has / has not earned all increments during immediately 
preceding 05 years, he/ she has fulﬁ lled the all relevant qualiﬁ cations to the post as per Para 6.1., he/ she is eligible in every 
respect to apply for this post and that there is/ there is no disciplinary action pending against him / her. If selected, he / she 
can be/ can't be released from his/ her present post. (Write - off the words inapplicable.)
 ......................................................................................, 
 Signature and Of ﬁ cial Seal of the Head of the Department/
 Head of the Provincial Department/
 Secretary in - charge of the subject of Agriculture.
Name : .......................................................................................
Designation : ....................................................................................
Address : .........................................................................................
Date : ................................................................................................
Afﬁ x the receipt here from on of its edges so as to be unglued 
(it would be an advantage to keep a photocopy of the receipt)

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1420
First Appendix
Regulations and Syllabus of the Limited Competitive Examination
² Question Paper - I - Intelligence Test
A multiple - choice short question paper including questions to assess the linguistic, mathematics and logical ability. Duration 
1 1/4 hours. Total marks 100.
² Question Paper 2 -Study of Subject Area
This is a written aptitude test to assess the knowledge in the relevant subject area. Each applicant may sit for question papers 
as relevant to the post or  posts he/she applies for, chosen from the following question papers. These question papers consist 
of short questions and multiple - choice questions. Duration 02 hours. total marks 100.
Note. - Subject matter paper in the open Competitive Examination will be prepared mainly focusing the theoretical knowledge 
in accordance with the following syllabus. Examination will be held as determined by the Director General of Examinations.
Syllabuses in respect of each post are enumerated below :
I. Syllabus for the stream of Agricultural Research :
Applicants shall answer only one out of the two parts referred to in (A) and (B) below, as they wish.
Part (A)
01. Agricultural Botany :
Fundamentals of crop classiﬁ cation, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology.
02. Genetics and Plant Breeding :
Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations molecular genetics, cytogenetic, quantitative genetics, fundamentals of plant 
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio-diversity, pollination behavior and breeding concepts, incompatibility, mass 
and pure line selection, commonly used breeding methods and current trends.
03. Plant Pathology :
Types of Pathogenic organisms, infections, response of plant to infections, infective methods and fundamentals of their 
management, current trends in plant pathology and diseases management, diagnostic techniques, symtomatology, Koch's 
postulate applications, modern techniques of diagnosis (ELISA), current trends.
04. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Fundamentals of classi ﬁ cation of animals, structural characteristics, biological information and damage, economic 
signiﬁ cance of pest damage, estimation of insect population and damage.
05. Seed Technology :
Seed physiology, morphology, dormancy, germination, viability, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed production, seed 
certiﬁ cation and seed storage.
06. Tissue Culture :
Theories, Facilities and requirements for tissue culture, media, applications of tissue culture systems, protoplast culture, 
mutagenesis, embryo rescue, in vitro fertilization, genetic transformations, cryopreservation.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1421
07. Agricultural Chemistry :
Fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food chemistry 
and practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of analytical chemistry and practical applications 
of analytical chemistry in agriculture;
                O R
Part (B)
01. Agronomy
Agro-climatology, ecology, land development, tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement of crop 
growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efﬁ ciency, weed biology and control, principles of irrigation systems, 
principles of crop soil and water relationship.
02. Crop Science
Physiology of rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops and other ﬁ eld crops, growth, methods of propagation, methods 
of planting, physical chemical and biological methods in crop manipulation, establishment and management of scienti ﬁ c 
pastures, fundamentals of timber and fruit production.
03. Soil Science
Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics of soil, soil problems relating to cropping, fertility management of soil, 
watershed management, plant nutrition, fundamentals of plant classiﬁ cation.
04. Genetics and Plant Breeding :
Fundamentals, Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetic, fundamentals of plant 
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio - divesity.
05. Plant Pathology :
Plant infections, response of plants to infections, biological control, modern trends in disease management.
06. Fundamentals of Entomology :
Indicated under sub - paragraph 04 of question paper (A)
07. Field research principles and statistical principles and knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere 
in Sri Lanka.
08. Entomology :
Economically signi ﬁ cant insects in agriculture, their classi ﬁ cation, internal and external features, structure of different 
systems and their functions, pest management, signi ﬁ cance of pest damage, pest identi ﬁ cation, their damage and control, 
integrated pest management. 
09. Micro - biology :
Micro - organisms and agricultural environment, bio-technology applications in agriculture, soil-living biomass and their 
effects on agricultural practices.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1422
10. Biometrics and Applied Statistics :
Basic knowledge in statistics, agricultural research, analysis of planning, obtaining and analysis of data.
Note.- it will be compulsory for all the applicants who apply for the stream of Agricultural Research through Limited 
Recruitments to answer only any part of the 02 parts referred to in (A) or (B) above.
II. Syllabus for the stream of Agricultural Development
01. General Agriculture
Climatic zones of Sri Lanka, land development, land preparation and equipment, crop establishment and machinery required 
for the purpose, soil and soil fertility, nursery and nursery management, planting material, pest control, plant protection, 
appliances, cropping systems, irrigation methods, integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-irrigation systems, 
harvesting and harvesting machinery, post - harvest losses, processing of farm products, factors considered in selecting 
suitable vegetables, fruits, pulses and cereals for cultivation in speci ﬁ c area, integrated pest management, integrated plant 
nutrition systems, Plant Protection Act, Soil Conservation Act.
02. Crop Productions :
Agrogonomy, agro-climatolgy and ecology, land development and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, 
measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recomendations and ef ﬁ ciency, weed biology and control, irrigation 
agronomy, principles of crop water relationship.
03. Field Crops :
Introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and varieties, growth physiology, physiological principles of yield 
determination, rice agronomy, crop management and production, highland cereals, legumes, tube crops and other important 
ﬁ eld crops (tobacco, onion, ﬁ ber and oil crops).
04. Crop Management :
Intercropping, harvesting and processing.
05. Horticultural Crop Production :
Fruit production, nutritional value , social and economic factors, origin and distribution, ecological requirements, cultural 
practices, application of modern techniques.
06. fruit, vegetable and ﬂ ower production :
Nursery management, orchard management, modern techniques in crop establishment and culture, fruit and vegetable crop 
improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems, post-harvest losses, prevention of post-harvest losses of fruits 
and vegetables, biotechnology, local and export markets for fruits and vegetables, present constraints and future strategies, 
requirements for vegetable production, vegetable based cropping systems, marketing, ﬂ oriculture, propagation techniques, 
cultural practices, quality parameters, principles of landscape gardening.
07. Agricultural Extension and Training
Introduction of agricultural extension and objectives , agricultural development and extension, adaptation and diffusion of 
innovations, communication, teaching methods of extensions, extension approaches used in Sri Lanka, relation between 
research and extension, preparation of extension programmes, review and evaluation, institutions associated with agricultural 
extension in Sri Lanka, adult education, training procedure, various techniques used in identifying training requirements, 
arrangements, arrangement of lessons, evaluation of training, use of audio-visual devices for training.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1423
08. Seed Technology :
Seed physiology, Structure, morphology, germination, viability, seed testing, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed 
production, seed certiﬁ cation and seed storage.
09. Apiculture :
Types of bees and hives in a colony, parts of bee boxes, capturing of bee colonies, establishment, dividing, pest and diseases 
in a bee colony.
III. Syllabus for the stream of Agricultural Economics
01. Agricultural Production/ Economics and Farm Management :
Importance of farm management in agricultural production, basic concepts, production functions, forms of production 
functions, production surfaces, ISO-quant, ISO-clines, ISO-revenue lines, principles of resources combination and cost 
minimization, principles of diminishing returns, substitution and income effects, ﬂ exibility and diversiﬁ cation of adjustments 
of production to meet risk and uncertainty in agriculture, price theory with special emphasis relating to pricing of agricultural 
products, evaluation of crop-livestock combination, farm site and returns to scale, principles of importance and comparative 
advantage of family farms, importance of records in determining the strong and weak points in the farm mechanization and 
incorporation of this information in optimization models.
02. Agricultural Marketing :
General principles of marketing, relative importance of such production and marketing, institutions dealing with marketing 
in Sri Lanka, role of such institutions in in ﬂ uencing the growth of markets, problems facing the marketing of agricultural 
products in Sri Lanka and Principles involved in improving marketing efﬁ ciency.
03. Land Economics :
Economics, concepts as applies to land use, demand for land supply in Sri Lanka, land use planning in Sri Lanka, importance 
of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri Lanka.
12-191
FOREIGN MINISTRY
1st and 2nd Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination and Foreign Language Test for the Ofﬁ cers of the Sri Lanka 
Foreign Service - 2020 (2021)
IT is hereby, notiﬁ ed that the 1st and 2nd Efﬁ ciency Bar Examinations and the Foreign Language Test for the Ofﬁ cers in 
the Sri Lanka Foreign Service will be held in Colombo and in Sri Lanka Missions abroad in March 2022. The oral test will 
be held only in Colombo.
02. The time table would be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for both Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examinations at the same 
time.
03. Syllabus.- The syllabus and the other provisions, by which the 1st and 2nd Efﬁ ciency bar Examinations are governed, 
are indicated in the respective Service Minute.
The Syllabus and the other provisions for the First and Second Efﬁ ciency Bar Examinations and for the foreign languages 
are also indicated in Appendix "A".
The ofﬁ cers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination at one or more sittings.
04. The subjects for which the ofﬁ cers should appear in the efﬁ ciecy  Bar Examination are as follows :

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1424
1ST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
PART I
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration 
hours
01. Finance 03
02. History and Geography of Sri Lanka 03
PART II
03. Elementary Constitutional Law and 
International Law
03
04. Diplomatic Practice 03
05. International Affairs 03
06. The Sri Lanka Foreign Service 
Minute, Foreign Ministry Regulations 
and Computer Literacy
03
2ND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION 
PART I
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration 
hours
21. Economic & Social Development in 
Sri Lanka
03
22. Administration 03
(a) Ofﬁ ce systems & Organizational Methods
(b) Establishments Code (V olume I & V olume II)
PART II
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration 
hours
23. Elementary Constitutional Law and 
International Law
03
24. Diplomatic Practice 03
25. International Affairs 03
FOREIGN  LANGUAGES
05. The attention of the Of ﬁ cers sitting for these 
efﬁ ciency Bar Examinations is drawn to the paragraph 5 of 
the Treasury Circular No. 701 dated 04th September 1966 
which is reproduced below :
"Departmental examinations (including Promotional 
and Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examinations) - The medium for 
promotional Examinations as well as Ef ﬁ ciency Bar 
Examinations should be the language in which the ofﬁ cer sat 
for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Service 
or the Of ﬁ cial Language. In case where initial recruitment 
has been taken place without a competitive examination, 
the medium for promotional/ Ef ﬁ ciecny Bar Examination 
should be the language in which the of ﬁ cer was quali ﬁ ed 
for entry into the Public Service or the Ofﬁ cial Language."
05.1 Issuance of Results :
 Candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above for each subject for a pass. Two separate result sheets, 
containing the results of individual candidates, pertaining 
to both First & Second Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination will 
be sent only to the Foreign Secretary by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations.
06. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner 
- General of Examinations for the candidates to answer the 
question papers in Sinhala, Tamil or English, except for the 
question papers on foreign languages. Medium applied to sit 
for the exam  cannot be changed.
07. If a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium 
in which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be 
cancelled.
08. Application forms should be prepared in an 
A - 4 size paper as per the specimen appended to this 
notoﬁ cations, containing items 1-8 on the ﬁ rst page and the 
rest on the second page. Both sides of the paper should be 
used. Applicatins should be ﬁ lled clearly in applicant's own 
handwriting. Applications prepared in Sinhala and Tamil 
medium should also bear the name of the examination in 
English. Candidates appearing for both Examination should 
submit seperate applications in respect of each Examination.
Since the applications which are not in con ﬁ rmity with 
the specimen and not provided with the required details will 
be rejected without noti ﬁ cation. The applicants are advised 
to keep a photocopy of the application. Before sending 
the application, the applicant should verify whether the 
completed application is in conformity with the specimen 
form given in the notiﬁ cation regarding the examination and 
all the details have been included in it and the receipt has 
been afﬁ xed to it.
08.1 Penalty for furnishing false information : - You 
should be careful to provide correct information in perfecting 
the application. According to the laws and regulations, if an 
applicant is found to be ineligible at any time befor, during 
or after the examination his/her candidature is liable to be 
cancelled.
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration 
hours
07. Arabic 02
08. French 02
09. Russian 02
10. Spanish 02
11. Hindi 02
12. Chinese 02
13. German 02
14. Japanese 02
15. Italian 02
16. Korean 02

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1425
09.  The examinations will be conducted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations and the candidates 
will be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by the 
Commissioner General for conducting the examinations. 
Candidates are subject to the laws and regulations imposed 
by the Commissioner General of the Examinations in relation 
to examination procedure and issuance of the results, In case 
of any violations of such laws and regulations, the candidate 
will be subject to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner 
General of the Examinations.
10.  All applicants should send their applications to the 
Human Resources and Mission Management Division of the 
Foreign Ministry for forwarding them to the Commissioner 
General of examinations, on or before 31.12.2021. Those 
who are serving in Sri Lanka missions abroad should send 
their applications through the relevant Heads of Mission. 
Any application received after the closing date will be 
rejected. 
11. Admission cards will be issued by the Commissioner 
General of Examination to all the applicants who had 
submitted the duly perfected applications on or before the 
closing date of applications and receipts for the payment 
of the required examination fees as per the noti ﬁ cation 
attached, on the presumption that only those who possess 
the qualiﬁ cations have applied. A notice will be published in 
the newspapers and the ofﬁ cial website to that effect by the 
Department of examinations as soon as the admission cards 
are issued. In case the admission card of any candidate is 
not received within 02 or 03 days after the appearance of the 
notiﬁ caiton, it would be more effective to send a letter by 
fax to the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations along with 
the photocopies of the application forms and the receipt (if 
the payment of an examination fee is relevant) mentioning 
a fax number enabling the same department to fax a copy of 
the admission card to the candidate.
11.1  Issuing an admission card to a candidate should 
not be considered as that he/she has ful ﬁ led the required 
qualiﬁ cations to sit for the examination or for the post.
11.2 The applicant should get his/her signature placed in 
the application and the admission card attested by the head 
of institution or an of ﬁ cer to whom the power is delegated 
by him.
12. Subsequent appeals by the candidates who fail to 
comply with the requirements as stipulated in paragraph 
11 above will not be entertained. Candidates should sit for 
the examination at the examination hall assigned to him/
her. Every candiate who appears for the examination should 
produce the admission card with his/her signature attested 
to the Supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates who 
have failed to produce his/her admission card will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination.
13.  The following are the documents of Identity 
acceptable at the examination centre :  
(i)  National Identity Card
(ii) Valid Passport
(iii)  Valid Driving License
Further, candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering their face and ears in order to verify their 
identity. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity will 
not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, from 
the moment of entering the examination hall until the end 
of the examination and leaving, the candidates should not 
cover their face and ears so that the authorities can identify 
them. 
14. The candidates who sit for the examination for the 
ﬁ rst time are exempted from the examination fees, while in 
the case of the subsequent sittings, fees will be levied on the 
following basis ;
a) First sitting (whole examination or part thereof) : free 
of charge
b)  Each subsequent sitting :   Rs.  Cts.
Complete examination 1200. 00
One subject 600. 00
The receipt obtained for the payment of fees at any post 
ofﬁ ce/sub post of ﬁ ce in the island or at a Foreign Mission/
Post to the credit of Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations, should be af ﬁ xed 
ﬁ rmly to the application in the place provided.
You are kindly informed that no fees other than the 
examination fees will be charged. Money orders or stamps 
will not be accepted for the payment of examination fees. 
Under no circumstances will the examination fees be 
reimbursed or transferred in respect of another examination. 
It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
15. The decision of the Public Service Commission will 
be ﬁ nal with regard to any matter that has not been mentioned 
in this noti ﬁ cation. The decision of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations will be the ﬁ nal with regard to the 
examinations.
16. In case of any divergence or inconsistency among 
different texts of this notiﬁ cation published in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
  A
DMIRAL PROF. JAYANATH COLOMBAGE,
  Foreign Secretary.
Foreign Ministry,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01. 

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1426
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
FOREIGN MINISTRY
1ST AND 2ND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATIONS AND FOREIGN 
LANGUAGE TEST 
FOR THE OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA FOREIGN SERVICE - 2020 
(2021)
THE Medium in which the candidate is appearing for the 
examination.
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. The Examination applied for :
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
Examination Relevant No.
Efﬁ ciency Bar 1 1
Efﬁ ciency Bar 2 2
Foreign Language 3
02. (i)   Name in Full (In English block capitals) :
.................................................................................. 
..................................................................................
(ii) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :
.................................................................................. 
..................................................................................
03. Address : (For the dispatch of the admission card)
 ........................................................................................
 (In English block capitals)
04. Date of Birth :
Date :              Month :              Year :
05. National Identity Card No.
06. Mobile Telephone No.
(For Ofﬁ ce use only)
07. Sex :
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
Male     - 0
Female - 1
08. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service.
Date :                Month :               Years :
09. Present Post : ....................................................................
10. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the
subject numbers given in paragraph 04 of the noti ﬁ cation.
(Applicants will be allowed to sit only for subjects indicated
in the application.)
Subject Subject No.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
11. State whether the applicant has appeared for the whole
examination or part thereof previously. If so, state the index
number, subjects, year and the month : .................................
 I declare that, the informaton furnished above is accurate 
and that, I am eligible to sit for this examination in the 
language medium indicated above. Further, I shall abide by 
the rules and regulations laid down by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the 
examination.
The receipt No. ........................ for payment of examination 
fee is annexed.
Fee paid : Rs. ....................................
...........................................,
Signature of the applicant.
Date : ...................................
Examination fees
I. Post ofﬁ  ce/ sub post ofﬁ  ce/ Foreign Diplomatic
Mission where the examination fee was paid.
 ...........................................
II. Amount paid : ...............................................
III. Date : ..........................................

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1427
iv. Receipt Number
12. Certiﬁ cation by the Head of the Department
 Commissioner General of Examinations,
  I, do hereby certify that the information furnished 
above is accurate and that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. 
is eligible to appear for this examination in the language 
medium indicated by him/her. I also attest the applicant's 
signature and the examination fees have been paid and the 
receipt is attached herewith.
    ...........................................
    Signature and Designation of the 
    Head of Department
Date : ...................................
(Ofﬁ cial Stamp)
Appendix "A"
1.  1ST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
1.1.  The 1st Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination will consist 
of two parts and the ofﬁ cers may take both parts 
at one sitting or separately.
1.2. The examination will be conducted in the 
following subjects.
Part I
(i) Finance - This paper is based on the following :
 
(a)  Financial Regulations of the Government 
of Sri Lanka, Part I (Except Chapter X)
(b) The estimates for the current year 
 Eg. Their arrangement, the heads 
of revenue, Financial Methods and 
Appropriation Acts.
(c) Ordinance relating to speci ﬁ c accounts 
meaintained by the Kachcheries.
(ii) History and Geography of Sri Lanka.
Part II - SPECIAL PAPERS
(i) Elementary Constitutional law and International 
Law
The Receipt should be pasted here 
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
(ii) Diplomatic Practice
(iii) International Affairs
(iv) The Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute, Foreign 
Ministry Regulations and Computer Literacy.
1.3.  Each of the above papers will be of a three 
hour duration and the candidates are required to 
obtain 40% marks or above in each paper for a 
pass.
1.4. An of ﬁ cer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will 
be deemed to have passed the respective paper 
when he/she has obtained the qualifying marks.
2.  2ND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
2.1.  The 2nd Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination will 
consist of two parts and of ﬁ cers may take both 
parts at one sitting or separately.
2.2. The examination will be conducted in the 
following subjects.
PART I
(i) Economic and Social Development in Sri 
Lanka.
(ii) Administration - This paper is based on the 
following :
(a)  Of ﬁ ce systems and organizational 
methods.
(b) Establishments Code - V olume I and 
V olume II.
PART II - SPECIAL PAPERS
(i) Elementary Constitutional Law and International 
Law
(ii) Diplomatic practice
(iii) International Affairs
2.3. Each of the above papers will be of a three 
hour duration and the candidates are required to 
obtain 40 % marks or above in each paper for a 
pass.
2.4. An of ﬁ cer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will 
be deemed to have passed the respective paper 
when he/she has obtained the qualifying marks.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1428
 Note : 
(i)  Questions on Constitutional Law 
will be mainly on the evolution 
of the parliamentary System of 
Government of Sri Lanka, with 
special reference to the Constitution 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Questions on the International Law 
will include inter - state relations, 
both bilateral and multilateral and 
the diplomatic law and the law of 
treaties.
(iii) An of ﬁ cer who is an Attorney-at-Law 
or who has obtained a degree in 
Law from a recognized university 
will be exempted from the paper 
on Eelemenary Constitutional Law 
and International law provided that, 
he/she has secured a pass in those 
subjects at the relevant Examination.
3.  FOREIGN LANGUAGES
3.1.  Foreign Languages
 (i)   Arabic
 (ii) French
 (iii) Russian
 (iv) Spanish
 (v) Hindi
 (vi) Chinese
 (vii) German
 (viii) Japanese
 (ix) Italian
 (x) Korean
3.2.  Aforesaid each written question paper on 
foreign languages will be of two-hour duration. 
Candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above in each paper for a pass.
11 - 261
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE 
DEVELOPMENT
Open Competitive Examination 
for recruitment to Grade III of Cooperative 
Development Ofﬁ cers in the Department of 
Cooperative Development - 2021
1.0 It is hereby noti ﬁ ed that the Open Competitive 
examination for the recruitment to post in Grade III in the 
Cooperative Development Of ﬁ cer Service will be held in 
Colombo by the Commissioner of Examinations in March 
2022. The relevant application has been published on the 
website www.doenets.lk of the Department of Examinations 
of Sri Lanka under ''Our Services" under ''Online Applications 
- Recruitment Exams" and the applications can only be 
submitted online. Once the application is submitted online. 
It should be downloaded and the relevant sections of the 
printed copy should be ﬁ lled in handwriting and the printed 
copy of the same should be sent by registered post to reach 
the Commissioner General of Examinations, Institutional 
Examination Organization Branch, and Department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on 
or before the closing date of applications after attesting the 
signature of the applicant with the attestation of the Head of 
the Department, if applicable. (It will be useful for you to 
have a photocopy of the applications). The top left corner of 
the envelop containing the application should clearly bear 
the words ''open Competitive Examination for recruitment to 
grade III of Cooperative Development Of ﬁ cers 2021". The 
closing date of applications is 31st December 2021.
Note:- The printed copy of the application should 
compulsorily be sent by the registered post. The complaints 
on the loss or delay of the printed copy in the mail will not 
be considered. The losses that may cause due to the delay in 
sending applications until the closing date shall be borne by 
the applicant himself.
2.0 Applicants, who have satis ﬁ ed prescribed 
qualiﬁ cations, shall be selected on merit for appoinment to 
the posts in Grade III of Cooperative Development Of ﬁ cer 
on the results of a written examination to be conducted by 
the Commissioner Genaral of Examinations.
3.0 Number of vacancies expected to be ﬁ lled is 21. 
Effective date of appointments shall be determined by 
the appointing Authority. Futher, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to refrain from ﬁ lling any or all of the 
vacancies.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1429
4.0 Three percent (3%) of the number of vacancies 
expected to ﬁ ll will be reserved for persons with disabilities. 
Only 3% of the persons with disabilities who secure highest 
marks in the examination and qualify will be selected for 
appoinments. The minimum level of marks candidates 
should score out of the aggregate of marks to be selected for 
appoinment is 50%. A candidate selected for an appoinment 
will be reffered to a Medical Board of Specialists and, by 
a report obtained from a medical specialist; he/ she should 
established the disablement and the fact that, it does not 
hinder performance of duties of the respective post.
05. Salary Scale - In terms of Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 (MN - 03-2016) dated 25.02.2016, 
monthly salary scale entitled to Grade III of Cooperative 
Development Ofﬁ cer is Rs. 31,040 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 
10 x 730 - 10 x 750 - Rs. 57,550.
6.0 This post is permanent. The of ﬁ cers, who are 
selected from this examination for the posts in Grade III 
of Cooperative Development Of ﬁ cer of the Department 
of Cooperative Development are subjected to the policy 
decisions taken by the Government with regard to the 
pension scheme to which they are entitled, in the future.
7.0 Qualiﬁ cations :- Following quali ﬁ cations are 
applicable for recruitment to the posts of Grade III 
Cooperative Development Of ﬁ cer of the Department of 
Cooperative Development.
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age on the closing date of 
applications. (Accordingly, only the persons 
whose birthdays fall on or before 31.12.2003 and 
on or after 31.12.1991 are quali ﬁ ed to apply for 
this examination.
Note : The maximum age limit for recruitment of of ﬁ cers 
of permanent posts in the Public Service through 
this examination is 45 years only in this case. 
Therefore, only the persons whose birthdays fall 
on or before 31.12.2003 and on or after 31.12.1976 
and employed in a permanent post in the Public 
Service are eligible to apply for this examination.
 (c) Should be of a good character.
 (d) Every candidates should be physically and 
mentally ﬁ t to serve in any area of Sri Lanka and 
to perform the duties of the post.
 (e) Educational Quali ﬁ cations :-
 (1) Shall have passed sicx (06) subjects with 
credit passes including Sinhala/ Tamil/ 
English, Mathematics and two  other subjects 
at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination 
at once sitting.
 (2) Should have passed the GCE (Advanced 
Level) Examination in all subjects (except 
General Knowledge Test) including a subject 
from Economics, Accounting, Business 
Statistics, Business Studies, Agricultural 
Science and Combined Mathematics. (It is 
sufﬁ cient to have passed three subjects in 
one sitting under the old syllabus.)
 (3) Should have passed the Higher Diploma 
in Accountancy or Audit or Management 
from the National Institute of Cooperative 
Development.
                   OR
  Should have passed the ﬁ nal Level of the 
Association of Accounting Technicians of 
Sri Lanka (AAT) or have obtained equivalent 
qualiﬁ cations.
                  OR
 
  Should have passed a Diploma in Accounting 
or Management from a recognized 
University.
Note : 
(1) It is mandatory for every applicant to have completed all 
the qualiﬁ cations relevant to the post on or before the closing 
date of applications.
08. Examination Procedure and Syllabus:
8.1 The examination shall consist two papers. 
This examination will be held in the language 
mediums of Sinhala, Tamil, and English. The 
medium requested will not be allowed to change 
later.
8.2  The subject of the examination and the marks 
allocated for each subject are given below:-

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1430
 Subject Duration Maximum Passing 
   marks score
(1)  Aptitude Test 1 hour 100 40
(2)  General Knowledge 1 hour 100 40
8.3  (1)  Aptitude Test :
This paper consisting of 50 questions in multiple 
choice questions and short answer mode to test the 
logical reasoning, analytical skills and decision 
marking power of the candidates. All the questions 
should be answered.
 (2)    General Knowledge :
 
(a) National and International socio-economic 
and political knowledge and ;
(b) This Paper consists 50 questions in 
multiple choice and short answer mode for 
testing knowledge of cooperative vision 
and cooperative business at National and 
International level. All questions must be 
answerd.
Note :
 These questions papers are designed to test a candidate's 
suitability and ability for duties of the service. Although 
this examination is a competitve examination, the candidate 
is required to obtain at least 40% marks out of the marks 
alloted for each subject. Marks will be deducted for 
incorrect handwriting and spelling mistakes on each written 
answer. Appoinments are made stricly following the marks 
obtained according to the number of vacancies allotted for 
the copmpetitive examination.
8.4 The Commissioner General of Examinations will 
provide the Commissioner of Co-operative Development 
and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies with the result 
sheet which includes the names of the candidates who have 
passed the examination, consisting the number of candidates 
equivalent to the number of vacancies to be ﬁ lled. In 
addition, the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will 
take step to personally inform all the candidates who sat for 
the examination or publish the results on the website of the 
Department of Sri Lanka  www.results.exams.gov.lk.
Interview: An interview will be held by the Commissioner of 
Co-operative Development and the Registrar of Co-operative 
Societies to examine quali ﬁ cations of the candidates who 
have appeared for all the papers in the written examination 
and obtained the highest marks. The date of the interview 
will be decided by the Commissioner of Co-operative 
Development and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies.
9.0 Penalty for furnishing false information - The 
candidate should be very careful to include the correct 
particulars in the application. If it is found that any candidates 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. Further, If it 
is found that any information furnished by a candidate is 
false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public 
service.
10.0 Examination Fee :
 (a) Examination fee is Rs. 600/- Payments should be 
made only via following methods of payments 
provided by the online system.
I.  Any Bank Credit Card
II.  Any Bank Debit Card with internet 
transaction facilities
III.  Bank of Ceylon Online Banking Method 
IV .  Any Bank of Ceylon Slip Payments
V .  Postal Department Payment at any Post 
Ofﬁ ce.
Note -  Instructions on making payment through 
above methods are published under technical 
instructions relevant to the examination on the 
website.
 (b) Receipt of Payment will be noti ﬁ ed via Short 
Message Service (SMS) or e-mail. The total 
examination fee has to be paid and applications 
for which less or high amount has been paid 
as the examination fee will be rejected. The 
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka shall 
not responsible for any error occurs during the 
examination fees is paid via the above payment 
methods.
 (c) Under no circumstance the examination fee will 
be refunded/ transferred to pay the fee of other 
examination.
11.0 Method of applying and sending applications :
Online Examination Application Form should be completed 
in English only. Upon reciept of both the soft copy sent 
online by the applicant and the printout sent by registered 
post to the Department of Examinations, the soft copy 
and the printout will be veri ﬁ ed and the Department will 
notify the acceptance/ non-acceptance of the application as 
a valid application via SMS to the mobile phone number 
used for accessing the system or an email. Download the 
instructions lea ﬂ et for online application. Strictly follow 
these instructions when ﬁ lling the application. Upon receipt 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1431
of a hard copy of the application, any amendments made to 
it will not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete 
applications will be rejected without notice.
12.0 Admission cards will be issued by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations to all the candidates who have 
submitted their applications on or before the due date 
on payment of the prescribed examination fee on the 
presumption that only those who are qualiﬁ ed as mentioned 
in the Gazette Noti ﬁ cation have applied. Issuance of an 
admission card to appear for the competitive examination 
will not be considered as an acknowledgment that the 
applicant has quali ﬁ ed for this post. Candidates will be 
called for interview and if it is  found that they do not have 
the required qualiﬁ cations, as per the Gazetted notiﬁ cation, 
the candidature will be canceled. 
13.0 Write ''Open Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment of Co-operative Development Ofﬁ cer Grade III 
of Co-operative Development Department Grade III - 2021" 
at the top left corner of the envelope.
14.0 The signature of the application should be attested 
in the application and in the admission card for the 
examination. Candidates applying for the examination from 
any Government Institution shall get the application attested 
from the respective Head of the Institution of an authorized 
ofﬁ cer, and a candidate who is not applying through a 
government institute shall get the application attested 
from the a Head of a Govrernment school, Retired Of ﬁ cer, 
Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of the Peace, 
Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney General, Notary Public, 
an authorized Ofﬁ cer of the Armed Forces, a permanent staff 
ofﬁ cer of the Government of Provincial Public Service or of 
the Chief Incumbent or Chief Thero of a Buddhist Temple 
or clergy in charge of another religious institute of a clergy 
holding a considerable position.
15.0 Completed applications should be sent by registered 
post on or before 31st December 2021  to the following 
address.
Commissioner General of Examinations, Institutional 
Examination Organization Branch Department of 
Examinations Sri Lanka
P.O. 1503, Colombo.
16.0 Appearing for the Examination.- The Department 
of Examinations of Sri Lanka will publish a newspaper 
advertisement starting that the admission cards will be 
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received 
in 2 or 3 days after the announcement, the Department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka should be inquired as stated in 
the advertisement. In doing so, the applicant should state 
the name of the examination to which he/ she has applied, 
the full name of the applicant, the National Identity Card 
Number and the address. If the applicant is a resident 
outside Colombo, it is advisable to send a request letter to 
the fax number mentioned in the advertisement stating the 
fax number of the applicant who will be able to obtain a 
copy of the examination admission card by fax along with 
the details. It will also be useful for you to have a copy of the 
application, copy of the receipt of payment of examination 
fees and the reciept registered at the time of posting the 
application to con ﬁ rm any information requested by the 
Department of Examinations.
16.1 Every applicant should furnish the admission card in 
which his/ her signature has been attested to the supervisor 
of the examination on the ﬁ rst day on which he/ she sits for 
the examination.
17.0 A candidate will be required to prove his/ her identity 
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject he is offered. For this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted.
 I. National Identity Card,
 II. A Valid Passport,
 III. Valid driving license of Sri Lanka.
Candidates should also enter the examination hall without 
covering their face and ears so as to verify their identity. 
Candidates who refuse to prove their identities will not be 
admitted to the examination hall. Further, candidates should 
remain with their face and ears uncovered until they leave 
the examination hall enabling the examination supervisor to 
conﬁ rm their identities.
18.0 Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding holding of the examination and the issuance of 
results. Violations of those rules will result in a penalty 
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination.
19.0 Any matters not mentioned here will be decided by 
the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and the 
Registrar of Co-operative Societies. All the candidates will 
be bound to abide by the general examination rules and 
regulations mentioned in this Gazette Notiﬁ cation.
20.0 In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and 
English texts of this noti ﬁ cation, The Sinhala Noti ﬁ cation 
shall prevail.
 G
AMANI N. LIYANARACHCHI,
 Commissioner of Cooperative 
 Development and Registrar of 
 Cooperative Societies ( Acting) 
23rd November, 2021
12 - 351

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1432
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payment s to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The of ﬁ ce hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Ofﬁ ce - Borella will be the paying ofﬁ ce for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  
... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the ﬁ rst week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...   4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) 
... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ...  860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ...  260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              
... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ...  5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ...  15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ...  ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                
... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.12.2021
1433
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date speci ﬁ ed for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times speci ﬁ ed below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that suf ﬁ cient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
T
HE SCHEDULE
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2021
 DECEMBER  03.12.2021 Friday — 19.11.2021 Friday 12 noon
  10.12.2021 Friday –– 26.11.2021 Friday 12 noon
  17.12.2021 Friday –– 03.12.2021 Friday 12 noon
  23.12.2021 Thursday –– 10.12.2021 Friday 12 noon
  31.12.2021 Friday –– 17.12.2021 Friday 12 noon
 JANUARY  07.01.2021 Friday — 23.12.2021 Thursday 12 noon
  13.01.2021 Thursday –– 31.12.2021 Friday 12 noon
  21.01.2021 Friday –– 07.01.2022 Friday 12 noon
  28.01.2021 Friday –– 13.01.2022 Friday 12 noon
 FEBRUARY 03.02.2021 Thursday — 21.01.2022 Friday 12 noon
  11.02.2021 Friday –– 28.01.2022 Friday 12 noon
  18.02.2021 Friday –– 03.02.2022 Thursday 12 noon
  25.02.2021 Friday –– 11.02.2022 Friday 12 noon
  
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2021.