

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2323$41 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'03'17
No. 2323/41  -  Friday,   march  17,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 39123 - 07 (03/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. d.- B. 6/2022
ThE  COmPANIES  ACT,  No. 07  Of 2007
rEGULaTiONS made by the minister of  industries under Section 527 read with Section 222 of the companies act,                 
No. 07 of 2007.
 Minister of industries.
colombo,
13th march, 2023
 Regulations
 1. These regulations may be cited as the companies (Secretaries) regulations, No. 1 of 2023
	 2.	 The	 provisions	of	these	regulations	shall	apply	to	a	secretary	of	a	company	having	a	stated	capital	of	rupees	five	
hundred thousand or more, or an annual turnover of rupees one million or more.
	 3.	 (1)	 A	person	shall	not	be	qualified	to	act	as	a	secretary	of	a	company	unless	such	person	is	–		
 (a) above eighteen years of age;
 (b) a citizen of Sri Lanka;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2023
2a
	 (c)	 a	 holder	of	a	Certificate	of	Practice	as	a	secretary	to	a	company	issued	under	these	regulations	(in	these	
regulations	referred	to	as	the	“Certificate	of	Practice”);	and
 (d) an attorney-at-law of the supreme court of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka; or
	 (e)	 a	member	of	–
 
 (i) the institute of chartered accountants of Sri Lanka established under section 2 of the institute of chartered 
accountants act, No. 23 of 1959;
 (ii) the institute of chartered corporate Secretaries of Sri Lanka incorporated under the provisions of the 
companies act, No. 07 of 2007;
 (iii) the chartered institute of management accountants of the United Kingdom;
	 (iv)	 the	 Institute	of	Certified	Management	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka	established	under	the	Institute	of	Certified	
management accountants of Sri Lanka act, No. 23 of 2009; or
 (v) the chartered Governance institute of the United Kingdom and ireland.
	 	 (2)	 	A	body	corporate	shall	not	be	qualified	to	Act	as	a	secretary	of	a	company	unless	such	body	corporate	has	been	
incorporated	in	Sri	Lanka	–
	 (a)	 the	 Articles	of	Association	of	a	such	company	specifically		mentions	that	such	company	is	engaged	in	
company secretarial practice;
 (b) majority of the shareholding of such company is held by citizens of Sri Lanka ; and
	 (c)	 one	of	the	directors	of	the	company	holds	a	Cartificate	of	Practice.
	 	 (3)	 A	firm	shall	not	be	qualified	to	act	as	a	secretary	of	a	company	unless	–
 (a) in the case of a sole proprietorship,
	 (i)	 the	Business	Registration	Certificate	of	the	sole	proprietorship	specifically	mentions	that	it	is	
engaged in company secretarial practice; and
	 (ii)	 the	sole	proprietor	is	a	citizen	of	Sri	Lanka	and	holds	a	Certificate	of	Practice;	or
 (b) in the case of a partnership,
	 (i)	 the	Business	Registration	Certificate	of	such	partnership	specifically	mentions	that	the	partnership	
is engaged in company secretarial practice; and
	 (ii)	 every	partner	of	the	partnership	holds	a	Certificate	of	Practice.	
	 4.	 (1)	 A	person	shall	be	disqualified	to	Act	as	a	Secretary	of	a	Company,	if	such	person	–
 (a) has been adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound mind;
 (b) having been adjudged as insolvent or bankrupt, and has not been granted by a competent court a 
certificate	to	the	effect	that	his	insolvency	or	bankruptcy	has	arisen	wholly	or	partly	from	inevitable	
losses or misfortune;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2023
3a
 (c) has been convicted by a competent court whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere, of any crimes involving 
moral turpitude;
	 (d)		 ceases	to	have	the	qualifications	prescribed	in	sub-regulation	(1)	of	regulation	3;
 (e) has been removed from the register by the registrar.
	 	 (2)	 Where	a	person,	a	body	corporate,	or	a	firm.	Acts	as	an	Auditor,	such	person,	such	body	corporate,	a	director	and	
an	employee	of	such	body	corporate	or	a	member	of	such	firm	shall	not	act	as	a	secretary	of	a	company.
	 (5)	 (1)	 A	person	shall	not	act	as	a	secretary	of	a	company	except	under	the	authority	of	a	Certificate	of	Practice	issued	
on that behalf by the registrar.
	 	 (2)	 A	person	who	wishes	to	obtain	a	Certificate	of	Practice	shall	make	an	application	online	in	the	Form	set	out	
on	the	official	website	of	the	Department	of	Registrar	of	Companies	together	with	certificates	including	the	
certificate	to	the	effect	that	the	applicant	has	followed	a	programme	designed	to	provide	Continued	Professional	
Development	in	the	field	of		company	secretarial	work	and	shall	accompany	by	a	fee	specified	in	the	Schedule	
hereto.
	 	 (3)	 Every	Programme	designed	to	provide	Continued	Professional	Development	in	the	field	of	company	secretarial	
work shall not be less than ten hours. The registrar may where necessary, require an applicant to furnish further 
information.
	 (6)	 Upon	the	receipt	of	the	application	and	the	certificate	referred	to	in	regulation	5,	the	Registrar	shall,	on	the	
consideration	of	the	matters	contained	in	the	application	and	certificates,	either	issue	a	Certificate	of	Practice	or	for	
the	reasons	to	be	recorded	by	him	refuse	to	issue	a	Certificate	of	Practice.	The	Registrar	shall	through	the	official	
website	inform	the	applicant	of	his	decision	and	in	case	of	refusal	to	grant	a	Certificate	of	Practice,	he	shall	state	
his reasons therefore.
	 (7)	 Every	Certificate	of	Practice	issued	during	the	period	of	any	calendar	year	shall,	unless	revoked	earlier,	be	valid	till	
December	31	of	the	following	year	and	shall	be	subject	to	terms	and	conditions	specified	therein.
	 (8)	 The	Registrar	may	revoke	a	Certificate	of	Practice	issued	under	these	regulations,	if	he	is	satisfied	that	the	holder	
of	the	Certificate	of	Practice	has	violated	any	provisions	of	the	Companies	Act	or	regulations	made	thereunder	or	
of	the	terms	and	conditions	of	such	Certificate	of	Practice.
 
	 (9)	 (1)	 A	Certificate	of	Practice	issued	under	these	regulations	shall	be	renewable	on	an	application	being	made	in	that	
behalf to the registrar on or before the 1st of November of each calendar year for the succeeding year together 
with	a	fee	specified	in	the	Schedule	hereto.
	 	 (2)	 A	Certificate	of	Practice	shall	be	renewed	by	the	Registrar,	only	if	he	is	satisfied	that	the	holder	of	the	Certificate	
of	Practice	has	observed	the	terms	and	conditions	of	the	Certificate	of	Practice.
	 (10)	 (1)	 The	Registrar	shall	maintain	a	register	consisting	of	details	of	all	persons	to	whom	a	Certificate	of	Practice	has	
been issued. Such register shall Inter alia contain the following details:-
	 (a)	 If	it	is	an	Individual	or	a	sole	proprietorship,	the	name,	National	Identity	Card	Number,	Official	
address, residential address, email and contact details of such individual;
 (b) if it is a body corporate, details of the company including the registration number of the company 
company	address,	names,	National	Identity	Card	Numbers,	official	addresses,	residential	addresses,	
emails and contact details of directors and shareholders; or

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2023
4a
	 (c)	 If	it	is	a	Partnership,	the	registration	number,	names	of	the	members	and	partners,	address,	email	and	
contact details of such individual.
  
	 	 (2)	 Any	changes	to	the	particulars	of	a	secretary	shall	be	notified	to	the	Registrar	within	twenty	working	days	
from	the	date	of	such	change	as	set	out	on	the	official	website	of	the	Department	of	the	Registrar	of	Companies	
together	with	a	fee	specified	in	the	Schedule	hereto.
	 (11)	 The	programme	designed	to	provide	Continued	Professional	Development	in	the	field	of	company	secretarial	work	
may be conducted by-
	 (a)	 a	body	or	an	organisation	Specified	in	paragraph	(d)	of	sub-regulation	(1)	of	regulation	3;	
 (b) the Bar association of Sri Lanka; or
	 (c)	 any	other	body	or	organisation	listed	on	the	official	website	of	the	Department	of	the	Registrar	of	
companies by the registrar.
	 (12)	 (1)	 The	Registrar	shall	remove	the	name	of	any	person	from	the	register	if	–
 (a) such person has made an application for such removal;
	 (b)	 the	Certificate	of	Practice	is	revoked	under	regulation	8;
 (c) such person is dead;
	 (d)	 such	person	is	disqualified	under	regulation	4	of	these	regulations;	or
	 (e)	 such	person	is	disqualified	from	functioning	as	a	director	under	the	provisions	of	the	Companies	
act, No. 07 of 2007.
  (2) When the registrar removes the name of any person from the register, he shall forthwith notify through the 
website to the person concerned and publish in the Gazette of such removal.
  (3) The registrar may, for good cause shown, restore the name of any person whose name has been removed from 
the register under sub-regulation (1).
  (4) any person aggrieved by a decision made under these regulations by the registrar has the right of appeal in 
terms of section 472 of the companies act, No. 07 of 2007.
 (13) The registerar shall cause to be published in the Gazette a list consisting of the names of the secretaries holding a 
Certificate	of	Practice	issued	under	these	regulations,	not	later	than	the	31st	day	of	March	every	year	which	shall	also	be	
published	in	the	official	website	of	the	Department	of	the	Registrar	of	Companies.
 (14) any act required by law to be performed by a secretary to a company, if purported to be performed by a person who 
does	not	hold	a	valid	Certificate	of	Practice	issued	under	these	regulations,	shall	be	invalid.
 (15) (1) The companies (Secretaries) regulations 1987, published in Extraordinary Gazette No. 471/6 of September 14, 
1987 are hereby rescinded:
	 	 Provided	 however,	the	Practicing	Certificates	issued	under	the	provisions	of	the	Companies	(Secretaries)	Regulations	
1987 shall continue to be valid for a further period of six months from the date of operation of these regulations.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'17
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2023
5a
 (2) a  person who acts as a secretary to the company on the date of the coming into operation of these regulations 
shall, notwithstanding the provisions contained in regulations 2 and 3 of these regulations be permitted to continue to act as 
a secretary to a company for a period of six months from the date of operation of these regulations.
	 (3)		 Prior	 to	the	expiry	of	the	period	of	six	months	referred	to	in	sub-regulation	(1),	a	secretary	referred	to	in	that	
regulation shall be required to make an application under these regulations:
	 	 	 Provided	however,	the	 Fee	 specified	 in	 the	 shedule	 hereto	 shall	 not	 apply	 to	 applications	 made	 under	 this	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
sub-regulation.
 (4) any person who fails to register within the period of six months shall be deemed to have been deregistered as 
a secretary and the name of such secretary shall be removed from the register.
 16. in these regulations -
	 	 	 	 “register”	means	a	register	required	to	be	kept	under	these	regulations;	and
	 	 	 	 “Registrar”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	assigned	to	it	under	the	Companies	 Act,	No.	07	of	2007.
SChEDULE
f
ees
(regulations 5(2), 9(1) and 10(2))
No. Details Amount (Rs.)
1. Application	for	a	Certificate	of	Practice	(non-refundable) 10,000
2. Application	to	renew	the	Certificate	of	Practice	-	Individuals
- others
2,500
5,000
3. changes of the details relating to the Secretary - individuals
- others
2,500
5,000
EOG 03-0205
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.