

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1857$8 - 2014 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks nodod - 2014'04'09
No. 1857/8 - WEDNESDAY ,   APRIL   09,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
INLAND  REVENUE  ACT,  NO.  10  OF  2006
Regulations  under  Section  212
REGULATIONS  made under Section 212 (2)(c) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, for the purpose of that Act.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
Minister of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
31st  March, 2014.
REGULATIONS
In complying with the respective provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, as cosequential to the adoption of Sri Lanka
Accounting Standards which consist of Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards (SLFRS)/Lanka Accounting Standards
(LKAS) in the preparation of financial statements, in relation to any year of assessment commencing on or after April 1, 2012,
the following adjustments shall be made in the ascertainment of profits or income for tax purposes, and the information
required shall be provided:
1A
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
1.1 Details of recognitions, de-recognitions, reclassi
fications and reconciliations of assets shall be
furnished together with all adjustments made to
opening retained earnings.
1.2 The expenditure (other than capital expenditure)
incurred in relation to the adoption of Sri Lanka
Financial Reporting Standards (SLFRS) as first time
adopters shall, for the purpose of deduction, be spread
over a period of 3 years in equal instalments (i.e. the
year of assessment in which the expenditure incurred
and the next 2 year of assessments).
1.0 FIRST TIME ADOPTION OF SRI -
LANKA FINANCIAL REPORTING
STANDARDS (SLFRS 1)
This Gazette  Extraordinary can be downloaded  from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
2A
1.3 For determining any additional liability or excess
payment, upon the transition, adjustments in relation
to restatement of assets and liabilities shall be taken in
to account except in relation to any capital nature
transaction such as an adjustment to “available for
sale assets” which shall be at the time of disposal. The
additional tax or refund position of the first year of
adoption should be furnished.
1.4 The adjustment arising upon transition will be a one-
off tax point.
(a) If the adjustment results in an additional tax,
settlement of such liability shall be made in the
year of assessment in which the adjustment was
made and in the period of two year of assessments
immediately succeeding, in equal instalments;
and
(b) If the adjustment results in an excess payment,
no  refund shall be made, but allowed to be set
off against income tax liability in the year of
assessment in which the adjustment was made
and in the period of two year of assessments
immediately succeeding.
1.5 Where a dividend is paid out of retained earnings or
profits on the conversion, such dividend shall be liable
to tax under the respective existing provisions.
2.1 Any inventory (e.g. returnable packaging materials)
re-classified in line with Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards (LKAS) as non-current asset shall continue
to be treated as inventory in line with the existing tax
practice.
2.2 When inventories are purchased with deferred
settlement terms, the finance cost element shall not be
separated from the purchase figure for tax purpose.
The whole invoice value shall be considered for tax
purposes while the imputed interest element, if any,
charged to statement of income is disallowed.
3.1 Only the cost attributable to certified work done shall
be allowed for tax purpose.
3.2 Other receipts such as incentive payments would also
be taxed accordingly.
3.3 The expected loss recognized as an expense shall be
disallowed until the loss is actually incurred.
3.4 Any interest income earned using advance payment
received shall be treated as separate source of income.
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
2.0 INVENTORIES
(LKAS 2)
3.0 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
(LKAS 11)

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
3A
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
3.5 Retention of any payment is treated as receipt and
shall be treated for taxation at the time of such
retention.
3.6 Future cost shall not be allowed for tax purpose until
incurred.
All deferred tax disclosures shall be furnished as per
the standard.
5.1 Allowance for depreciation claimed in error for tax
purposes on land in prior periods, shall be adjusted.
5.2 Separation of historical cost of the land and building
shall be at the proportion of the current market value
of the land and building. A schedule on
apportionment of cost between Land and Building
shall be provided.
5.3 Capitalized cost of Property, Plant and Equipment
(PPE) shall be on the basis of the invoice value. In
line with this, the imputed interest charged as finance
cost in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
(SOCI) should be disallowed. The details of the
imputed interest included in the cost of asset shall be
furnished for necessary adjustments.
5.4 Cost of staff directly attributable to the construction
or acquisition of the PPE shall be allowed for inclusion
in the cost of the PPE. The schedule of such
attributable staff cost shall be provided.
5.5 Provisions/estimates of cost of abandonment,
dismantling, removing of item of Property, Plant and
Equipment (PPE) and site restoration shall not be
allowed for tax purpose unless such cost in incurred.
5.6 In a situation of a revaluation of an asset:
(a) Cost of acquisition is the basis of allowance
for depreciation.
(b) Professional fees and valuation expenses
relating to revaluation of Property, Plant and
Equipment (PPE) shall not be allowed for tax
purposes. These expenses should be
separately disclosed.
5.7 In the case of Componentization:
(a) Allowance for depreciation will be allowed
without taking into account the
componentization of the Property, Plant and
Equipment (PPE). Schedule on adjusted
depreciation shall be provided.
(b) Reconciliation between the total cost of  PPE
under Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS),
and componentized cost of same Property, Plant
and Equipment (PPE) under SLFRS shall be
provided by first time adopters.
4.0 INCOME TAXES
(LKAS 12)
5.0 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIP-
-MENT (PPE)
(LKAS 16)

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
4A
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
5.8 Stock of spare parts and consumables shall continue
to be treated as inventory and the cost should be
charged when consumed.
6.1 For the purposes of taxation, the legal form of the
lease facility or transaction will be taken in to account.
6.2 In compliance with Lanka Accounting Standards
(LKAS), reclassification of lease assets, there could
be a situation whereby an operating lease becomes a
finance lease or vice versa, even where two parties
has correctly applied the old principle. From the year
of assessment in which reclassification is effected,
such lease will be treated on the same basis for the
balance period.
6.3 Where there are errors in compliance with previous
standards on leases, the tax consequences resulting
from the errors shall be adjusted for accordingly.
6.4 The lease rental payments to be allowed for tax
purposes shall be the amount, incurred and paid
subject to the restriction specified in Section 26.
7.1 In the case of deferred consideration, where imputed
interest is embedded in sales revenue (broken down
into sales and finance income portion), the entire value
on the invoice shall be taken in to account.
7.2 The components of deferred consideration shall be
provided.
7.3 The turnover subject to tax treatment under a loyalty
program shall be the payments made for both the
consumed and deferred portion of the services.
Revenue shall be recognized for tax purposes at the
point of realization of revenue.
7.4 Where there is exchange of dissimilar goods, the
revenue shall separately be treated for tax purposes.
The cost of the new issue of goods shall be the market
value of the old goods received plus any cash
consideration included in the exchange.
7.5 Free issue of goods and/or services should be
considered for tax purposes at the point of realization
of revenue. Corresponding cost of free issues will be
deductible as an expense.
6.0 LEASES
(LKAS 17)
7 . 0 REVENUE
(LKAS 18)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
5A
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
8.1 Profit sharing plans shall be allowed for tax purposes,
if the basis for its computation has been approved by
the Commissioner General or under his authority in
advance.
8.2 Any provisions or actuarial valuations charged to
Statement of Comprehensive Income (SOCI) shall be
disregarded for tax purposes.
8.3 Interest Free Loans: Benefit on free or concessionary
rate of interest shall be taxed. For this purpose, the
interest to be taxed will be on the basis of the effective
interest rate (EIR) as disclosed in the Financial
Statement.
8.4 The benefit associated with other short term employee
benefits (e.g. complimentary goods/services, reduced
prices, auctioned assets at below carrying cost etc.)
shall be treated as benefit in kind to employees and
treated for tax purposes.
9.1 Government grants, assistance, subsidies etc. should
be treated for tax purposes subject to the exemption
provided.
9.2 Where a capital asset is acquired utilizing the aforesaid
grant other than exempt grant, allowance for
depreciation on the value of such asset shall be
allowed under the respective provisions.
10.1 Financial statements submitted for tax purposes
should be presented in terms  of Sri Lankan Rupees.
10.2 Exchange rate difference arising on conversion of
monetary items which are in capital in nature shall not
be taxed and any loss shall not be allowed.
10.3 Any form of unrealized gains or losses arising from
foreign currency conversion of current assets and
liabilities shall be taxed or allowed for deduction.
10.4 Reconciliation of exchange differences posted to
Income Statement shall be provided.
10.5 Exchange difference accumulated in the Other
Comprehensive Income (OCI) in respect of disposal
of a foreign operation, is a capital item and shall be
disregarded. For tax purposes, the gain or loss on
such disposal of foreign operation shall be treated in
accordance with respective provisions.
8.0 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
(LKAS 19)
9.0 GOVERNMENT GRANTS AND
ASSISTANCE
(LKAS 20)
10.0 THE EFFECTS OF CHANGES IN
FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  RATES
(LKAS 21)
4 - PG 2027

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
6A
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
Allowance for depreciation shall be continued to be claimed
where the borrowing cost is capitalized, on the cost of the
asset  including such borrowing cost,  provided that deduction
under Section 32 shall not be made in relation to any part of
such cost. Reconciliation of such borrowing cost shall be
provided.
Any actuarial gain or loss charged to the Other
Comprehensive Income (OCI) shall not be taken in to tax
purpose.
13.1All impairment losses and gains on reversal charged
to the Statement of Comprehensive Income (SOCI)
shall be disregarded for tax purposes.
13.2The grant of allowance for depreciation will be on the
basis of cost of acquisition/construction.
13.3Entities shall furnish a schedule containing detail
computation of impairment losses including any gain
on re-valued assets charged to the Statement of Income
or Other Comprehensive Income (OCI), as the case
may be
14.1The rationale used in apportioning or separating the
cost of land and building with certified valuer’s report
shall be furnished by the entity.
14.2Gain or loss that may be charged to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income on Investment Property
measured at fair value shall be disregard.
14.3 A  schedule of Investment Property shall be
accompanied with the tax return.
14.4All assets other than land reclassified and/or
recognized as Investment Property (IP) from Property,
Plant and Equipment (PPE) shall be transferred at their
Tax Written Down Value (TWDV) to IP and shall
continue to be entitled for allowance for depreciation.
14.5Any entity engaged in both investment property and
trading in properties shall segment the businesses and
report them accordingly.
15.1 As for the standard, goods/services are to be
recognized at the current market value and the impact
on shareholders fund shall be shown.
15.2The share option cost charged to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income (SOCI) shall be allowed in the
hands of the employer at the point of allotment, to the
extent of the amount considered as benefit to the
employee.
11.0 BORROWING COSTS
(LKAS 23)
12.0 RETIREMENT BENEFIT FUNDS OR
PLANS
(LKAS 26)
13.0 IMP AIRMENT OF ASSETS
(LKAS 36)
14.0 INVESTMENT PROPERTY
(LKAS 40)
15.0 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
(SLFRS 2)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
7A
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
16.1Gains arising from disposal of a Cash Generating Unit
(CGU) with goodwill component is not liable to tax
unless specifically provided under any other
provisions.
16.2Gains on bargain purchase charged to Income
Statement or Statement of Other Comprehensive
Income (OCI) shall not be liable for tax purposes.
16.3Gains or losses arising from contingent consideration
charged to Statement of Comprehensive Income (OCI)
shall not be liable for tax.
Allowance for depreciation on any asset classified as
“held for sale” under SLFRS shall be suspended until it
is reclassified.
18.1Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) - For
financial assets on revenue account clasified at “Fair
V alue through Profit or Loss”, any gain or loss
recognized in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
will be taxed or allowed a deduction even though
unrealized.
18.2Held to Maturity Investments - For financial assets
classified as “Held to Maturity”, interest income will
be calculated using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR)
method shall be followed. In cases where re-
classification from held to maturity to available for
sale categories occurs, the difference between its
carrying amount and fair value shall be accounted
for in accordance with paragraph 18.4. This treatment
shall be accepted for tax purpose.
18.3Loans and Receivables  - Interest income shall be
calculated using EIR method. In the case of re-
schedulement of “Loans and Receivables”, the
difference between the new loan value and, the current
loan and receivable value is adjusted to the Statement
of Comprehensive Income (SOCI) immediately, and
income is continued to be recorded on initial EIR.
This treatment shall be acceptable for tax purposes.
18.4Available for Sale (AFS) - For Financial assets on
revenue account clssified as “available for sale”, any
gains or losses recognized in the Other
Comprehensive Income Statement will not be taxed
or allowed a deduction. When such assets are
derecognized and/or disposed, the cumulative gains
or losses transferred to the income statement will be
texed or allowed a deduction.
16.0 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
(SLFRS 3)
17.0 NON CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR
SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERA
TIONS (SLFRS 5)
18.0 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(SLFRS 7, SLFRS 9, LKAS 32 AND
LKAS 39)

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
8A
18.5All transaction costs incurred on Financial Instruments
classified as “Loans and Receivables” and “Held-to-
Maturity” shall be treated as part of the cost of the
instrument.
18.6 Transaction cost on assets classified as “Fair Value
Through Profit or Loss” (FVTPL) and “Available for
Sale Assets” (AFS) will be allowed as and when
incurred.
18.7 Withholding Tax (WHT) will apply on interest expense
on contractual basis.
18.8Preference Shares are recognized based on legal form
of the instrument. Accordingly, return on preference
shares shall be treated as divident, for tax purposes.
18.9Any adjustment arising upon individually significant
impairment or collective impairment shall not be allowed
for tax purposes, unless proved to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner General on the basis of present
treatment of doubtful debts. Any reversal of impairment
is taxed to the extent it was allowed previously.
The following additional schedules or details shall be
furnished with Tax Computation.
However, if any of the schedules or details stated below is
required  to be furnished with the audited financial
statements, then such schedule or detail is not required to
be submitted separately, and the reference to such statements
would be sufficient.
19.1 SLFRS - 1
a. Reconciliation of opening balances
(Regulation 1.1).
b. Schedule of first time adoption expenses
(Regulations 1.2).
c. Additional tax/refund position of the first year of
adoption
(Regulation 1.3).
19.2 LKAS - 12
All deferred tax disclosures as per the standard
(Regulation 4.0).
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
19.0 Additional Schedules required to be
furnished

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2014
9A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
No. Accounting Standard Adjustments/information required to be
Adopted made or provided, for tax purposes
19.3 LKAS - 16
a. The schedule of apportionment of cost between
Land and Building (Regulation 5.2).
b. The details of the imputed interest included in the
cost of assets (Regulation 5.3).
c. Schedule of staff cost attributable to PPE
(Regulation 5.4).
d. Professional fees and valuation expenses relating
to revaluation of PPE  (Regulation 5.6(b).
e. Schedule of adjusted allowance for depreciation
(Regulation 5.7 (a)).
f. The reconciliation between the total cost of PPE
under SLAS and componentized cost of  same PPE
under SLRS for first time adaptors
(Regulation 5.7(b)).
19.4 LKAS - 18
Statement of components of differed consideration
(Regulation 7.2).
19.5 LKAS - 21
Statement on reconciliation of exchange difference
posted to income statement (Regulation 10.4).
19.6 LKAS - 23
Reconciliation of interest capitalized on each asset
(Regulation 11.0).
19.7 LKAS - 36
Schedule containing detail computation of
impairment losses including any gain on re-valued
assets charged to the Statement of Income or Other
Comprehensive Income as the case may be
(Regulation 13.3).
19.8 LKAS - 40
(a). Rational used in a apportioning and or separating
cost of land from building with certified valuer’s
report (Regulation 14.1).
(b) A schedule of Investment Properties
(Regulation 14.3).
04-693