

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1041
1041
wxl 1"812 - 2013 uehs ui 23 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'05'23
No. 1,812 –THURSDAY , MAY 23, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  14th June, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st May,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 1042
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Note .— (i) Registration of Documents (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(ii) Betting and Gaming (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
(iii) T elecommunication Levy (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 22, 2013.
N.B.— Part I:III of the Gazette No.1811 of 17.05.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1042
Provincial Councils Notifications
1. This statute may be cited as the Southern Provincial Pawnbrokers Statute No. .......  of 2013 and shall come into
operation on such date as the Governor of the Southern Province may give his assent;
PART I
Duties of Pawnbrokers
2. No. persons shall carry on the business of a pawnbroker an appointed date if such person -
(i) is an individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka; or
(ii) is a foreign company; or
(iii) is a foreign firm
and accordingly any licence to carry on such business which was issued to any such individual, foreign company or
foreign firm and was in force on the day immediately prior to the appointed due date shall, on and after the said date,
be deemed, for all purposes, to be null and void.
3. (1) No person shall carry on the business of a pawnbroker unless he is the holder of a licence issued in
respect of every shop or branch and issued separately for each shop or branch by the Chief Secretary.
(2) Every licence issued under this section shall be in the Form A set out in the First Schedule.
(3) Every licence shall be dated on the day of which it is issued, and shall expire on the thirty-first day of
December next ensuring.
4.  The holder of a licence issued under Section 3 shall not transfer the business to which such licence relates to
any other person without the prior approval in writing of the Chief Secretary.
5.  The Chief Secretary shall forward a copy of each licence issued under Section 3 to the Superintendent of Police
of the district within which the business to which such licence relates, is carried on.
6. (1) Every person desirous of obtaining a licence for carrying on the business of a pawnbroker shall make
application in that behalf to the Chief Secretary.
SOUTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Draft Statute No. ........ of 2013 Pawn Brokers of the Southern Province Provincial Council
I, Gustinggna Wadu Shan Vijayalal De Silva Chief Minister and Minister of Finance, Plan Implementation, Law and Order, Transpor t,
Water Supply & Drainage, Power, Engineering Services, Health & Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of Southern Province,
hereby notify that the following Pawn Brokers Draft Statute, No. ....... of 2013 of the Southern Province Provincial Council wi ll be
presented to the Southern Province Provincial Council after two weeks of the publication of this notice in the  Gazette. If anyone wishers
to make any representations regarding this statute, they should be forwarded to me within two weeks of the publication of this notice.
G
USTINGGNA WADU SHAN VIJAY ALAL DE SILV A,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance, Plan Implementation,
Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply & Drainage, Power,
Enginering , Health & Indigenous Medicine and Local Government.
Chief Minister’s Office,
Uper Dickson Road,
Galle.
24th April, 2013.
A STATUTE TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION OF THE BUSINESS OF PAWNBROKERS, WHICH IS INCONSISTENT
WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE PAWN BROKERS ORDINANCE No. 31 OF 1942 AND FOR OTHER MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREIN AN INCIDENTAL THERETO
Short title and
date of
operation.
Certain persons
prohibited from
carrying on the
business of a
pawnbroker.
Pawnbroker’s
licence
Transfer of business
without prior
approval Chief
Secretary
Copies of licence to
be sent to
Superintendents of
Police.
Application for
licence

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1043
(2) Every application for a licence shall be accompanies by a prescribed fee.
(3) The Minister in charge the subject of Finance may decide the licence fee by a notification published in
the Gazette from time to time.
(4) If a pawnbroker, who is carrying on business of pawnbroker fails to renew licence annually on due date
shall be charged of a late fee at the rate of 10% of the licence fee for every month the business was carried
on without a licence.
(5) The applicant shall produce an affidavit stating that he has not engaged in any unlawful or illegal act.
7. No licence for carrying on the business of a pawnbroker shall be issued to any person who is prohibited from
carrying on such business by virtue of the operation of the provisions of Section 2, and accordingly any such
license issued to any such person, whether by inadvertence or otherwise, shall be deemed for all purposes to
be null and void.
8. (1) No licence for carrying on the business of a pawnbroker shall be issued to any person if-
(a) at any time during the five years immediately preceding the date on which he makes his applicaiton for
such licence, he has been found guilty of any act rendered punishable under Chapter XI, XIII, XVII or
XVIII of the Penal Code, or under the provisions of this Statute; or
(b) he fails to submit annual statement of accounts under Section 46(2).
9. Where the holder of a licence issued under Section 3 makes an application for a renewal of such licence, the
Licensing officer may refuse to renew such licence, if he is of a opinion that such holder has during any period
preceding such application, and in relation to his business as a pawnbroker, dealt in practices which are
contrary to the provisions of this statute. That person shall be informed in writing of the reason for such
refusal within 30 days.
10.  (1) Any person who is dissatisfied with any decision relating to the issued licence being cancelled or
refusal of renewal may appeal within thirty days to the Appeal Board against such decision.
(2) The Appeal Panel shall consist of two retired judicial officers appointed by the Convener.
11.  No licence for carrying on the business of a pawnbroker shall be issued to any person unless he furnishes
security in cash of Rupees 10,000 as may be ordered by the Chief Secretary.
12.  Every pawnbroker who intends to be absent from Sri Lanka for any period exceeding three months shall-
(a) give written notice of his intention to the Chief Secretary; and
(b) appoint a person (being a person entitled under this Ordinance to a licence for carrying on the business
of a pawnbroker) to act for him and on his behalf during his absence from Sri Lanka, and give to the Chief
Secretary, written notice of the name of the person so appointed.
13.  No pawnbroker shall take any article on pawn before 8 a.m. or after 8 p.m. on any day.
14.  No pawnbroker shall act as or carry on the business of an auctioneer.
15.  Every pawnbroker shall -
(a) always keep exhibited in large characters over the outer door of his shop or place of business his name
with the word “Pawnbroker” in Sinhala, Tamil and English; and
(b) always keep exhibited in a conspicuous part of his shop or place of business so as to be clearly visible
to and legible by every person resorting thereto a notice containing in Sinhala, Tamil and English the
particulars set out in the Third Schedule.
Issue of licences to
certain persons
prohibited.
Refusal of
 licence.
Renewal of
licence.
Appeal
Security to be
furnished
before licence
is issued.
Notice of
pawnbroker’s
absence from Sri
Lanka.
Hours of
business.
Pawnbroker not
to act as
auctioneer.
Notices & c., to be
exhibited by
pawnbrokers.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1044
16. Where  any particulars are required by this Ordinance to be entered in any book, form or document, such
particulars shall be entered in Sinhala or Tamil or English.
17. Every pawnbroker shall keep and use in his business a pledge book in the form A and a sale book of pledges
in the form B set out in the Second Schedule, and shall from time to time, as occasion demands, enter therein
in affair and legible manner all the particulars for the recording of which provision is made in such forms, and
shall make all inquiries necessary for that purpose.
18. (1) Every pawn ticket shall be executed in foil and counterfoil in the form C set out in the Second Schedule
and in accordance with the directions contained in that form.
(2) The particulars in the Third Schedule shall be printed legibly in Sinhala, Tamil and English on the back of
the foil of every pawn ticket.
(3) Where a pledge is pawned for One Thousand Rupees or over, the foil of the pawn ticket relating to that
pledge shall bear a stamp according to the value. The expense for providing such stamp shall be borne by
the pawnbroker.
(4) No article shall be or the deemed to be taken in pawn unless and until -
(a) the pawner has signed the counterfoil of the pawn ticket;
(b) the pawnbroker has signed the foil of the pawn ticked and has given the foil to the pawner; and
(c) the pawner has received and accepted the foil of the pawn ticket from the pawnbroker.
19. No pawnbroker shall in respect of a loan on a pledge, charge interest at a rate exceeding the rates specified
in the Third Schedule.
Provided that where any tax is payable in respect of a loan given on a pledge, nothing in the preceding
provisions of this section shall be deemed to prohibit the pawnbrokers from recovering such tax from the
pawner.
In this Section “pledge” includes a pledge which has been pawned and which has not been redeemed before
the appointed date.
PART II
P
LEDGES
20. Every pledge shall be redeemable within a period of twelve months (hereinafter in this statute referred to as
the “period of redemption”) from the day of pawning exclusive of that day.
21. Notwithstanding anything in this Statute, every pledge shall continue to be redeemable until is disposed of
as in this statute provided, although the period of redemption has expired.
22. (1) The pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge if he surrenders to the pawnbroker the foil of the pawn
ticket relating to that pledge and signs the foil in the presence of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.
(2) A person other than the pawner shall be entitled to redeemed a pledge if such person surrenders to the
pawnbroker the foil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge duly endorsed with the signature of the
pawner and if such person signs that foil in the presence of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.
(3) Where by reason of the death or legal disability of the pawner. the holder of the foil of the pawn ticket
relating to that pledge (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “holder”) claims to be entitled to
redeem that pledge but is unable to surrender to the pawnbroker the foil of the pawn ticket duly endorsed
with the signature of the pawner, the pawnbroker shall permit the pledge to be redeemed if such holder
surrenders to him the foil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge together with a declareation inthe form
E set out in the Second Schedule, duly made before a Justice of the Peace by such holder and by the
person identifying him.
Language to be
used in entering
Particulars.
Books to be
kept by
pawnbrokers.
Pawn tickets.
Rate of interest.
Pledges redeemable
within one year.
Pledges to continue
to be redeemable
until sale.
Procedure for
redemption of a
pledge.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1045
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3), the pawnbroker shall on payment of the loan,
the interest due thereon , and tax, if any, payable in respect of such loan, deliver the pledge to the pawner
or holder, as the case may be, who produces the foil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge;
Provided, however, that if the pawnbroker has reason to suspect that such holder, has sold or otherwise
illegally obtained possession of the pawn ticket, the pawnbroker may forthwith inform an officer of
police or Grama Seva Niladhari.
23. If a person entitled and offering to redeem a pledge shows to the satisfaction of a civil court of competent
jurisdiction that the pledge has become, or has been rendered, of less value than it was at the time of pawning
thereof, by or through the default, neglect or willful misbehavior of the pawnbroker, the court may, if it thinks
fit, award a reasonable satisfaction to the owner of the pledge.
24. (1) Any person claiming to be the owner of a pledge, but not holding the foil of the pawn ticket, or any
person claiming to be entitled to hold the foil of the pawn ticket, but alleging that the foil of such ticket
has been lost, stolen, mislaid, destroyed, or fraudulently obtained from him, may deliver to the pawnbroker
a declaration inthe form E set out in the Second Schedule, duly made before a Justice or the Peace by
himself and by the person indentyfying him, and shall thereupon h ave as between himself and the
pawnbroker, all the same rights and remedies as if he produced the foil of the pawn ticket.
Provided that for the purpose of redeeming a pledge he shall sign the counterfoil of the pawn ticket.
(2) The pawnbroker is hereby indemnified for delivering the pledge or otherwise acting in conformity with
the declaration, unless he has actual or constructive notice that the declaration is fraudulent or false in
any material particular.
25. (1) Where the foil of a pawn ticket is surrendered to the pawnbroker for the purpose of redeeming a pledge,
the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession the foil and counterfoil of that pawn ticket for a period of
twelve months reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge.
(2) Where  a pledge is redeemed without the surrender of the foil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge,
a pawnbroker shall retain in his possession for a period of twelve months reckoned from the date of the
redemption of that pledge the counterfoil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge and the declaration
delivered to him under section 24 for the purpose of such redemption.
(3) Where a pledge is sold under the provisions of this Ordinance, the pawnbroker shall retain in his
possession the counterfoil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge for a period of twelve months
reckoned from the date of sale.
26. (1) Where in any prescribed circumstance any pledge is lost while in pawn with any pawnbroker, the
security furnished by such pawnbroker shall be applied in the prescribed manner to the payment of
compensation to the pawner or to any other person entitled to redeem such pledge.
(2) Where a person ceases to carry on the business of a pawnbroker, the amount of the security furnished
by him less any sum applied there from to the payment of such compensation as is referred to in
subsection (1) shall be returned to him.
27. (1) Where a pledge is destroyed or damaged by or in consequence of fire, the pawnbroker shall nevertheless
be liable, on demand, within the period of redemption, to pay the value of the pledge. after deducting the
amount of the loan and interest, and business turnover tax, if any, payable in respect of such loan.
(2) Every pawnbroker shall have his business insured to the full extent of the value of the articles pawned
with him.
28. Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of redemption of the pledge, give a receipt for the amount of loan and
interest paid to him and tax, if any recovered by him and preserve a copy of suxh receipt with the pledge
book, Such receipt shall be in the Form F set out in the Second Schedule.
29. (1) Every pledge which is not redeemed within the period of redemption may be deposed of by sale by
public auction but shall not be disposed of otherwise, and the regulations in the Fourth Schedule shall be
observed with reference to the sale.
Compensation
for depreciation
of pledge.
Protection of owners
and of pawners not
having pawn tickets
Pawn tickets to be
retained by
pawnbroker after
redemption or sale
of pledge.
Application and
return of security
furnished by
pawnbrokers
Liability of
pawnbroker in case
of fire.
Receipt of
pawnbroker
Pledges to be sold
by auction.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1046
(2) Where a pledge is to be sold by public auction under the preceding provisions of this Section, where
a pledge is to be sold by Public Auction under the preceding provisions of this Section, the pawner
shall be given two months notice in writing with regard to such sale. The pawnbroker with whom
such pledge had been pawned shall give at least twenty one days notice in writing to the Chief
Secretary of the date and time fixed for such sale and the place at which such sale is to be held.
30. The pawnbroker shall give to every pawner whose pledge is  to be sold under this Statute at least
fourteen days notice of the date fixed for the sale of his pledge by public auction and of the place at
which the sale is to be held.
31. In every case where a pledge is sold under this Statute for more than the amount of the loan and interest
due on the date of the sale and any tax, if any, payable in respect of such loan the pawnbroker shall;
(a) forthwith give to the pawner of that pledge notice of the amount for which the pledge was sold
and of the amount lying to the credit of the pawner after deducting the necessary costs and
accrued interest charges of the sale and ,
(b) on demand made within one year from the date of such sale pay to the holder of the pawn ticket
relating to that pledge the amount lying to the credit of the pawner; and
(c) if no such demand is made within the said period of one year, forthwith on the expiry of the said
period, deposit the amount lying to the credit of the pawner in the Provincial Council to the
credit of the pawner.
32. Where,at any time  before the appointed date, any pledge pawned for above Thousand Rupees has been
sold under the law then in force for more than the amount of the loan and interest due at the time of the
sale, and no demand for the amount lying to the credit of the pawner is made to pawnbroker by the
holder of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge within one year after the date appointed date, the
pawnbroker shall, forthwith on the expiry of the said period, deposit such amount in the Provincial
Council Fund to the credit of the pawner.
33. Every notice under Section 29, 30 or 31 shall be sent by registered post to the pawner at the address
entered in the pledge book and the cost of registration shall be borne by the pawner.
34. A pawnbroker may bid for and purchase at a sale by auction made or purporting to be made under this
Statute, a pledge pawned with him; and on such purchase he shall be deemed to be the absolute owner
of the pledge purchase.
PART III
I
NSPECTION, EXAMINATION AND SEIZURE
35. At any time within two years from the date on which a pledge is sold under this Statute, the holder of
the pawn ticket may inspect the entry of the sale in the pawnbrokers’s book and in the filled-up
catalogue of the auction authenticated by the signature of the auctioneer, or in either of them; and the
pawnbroker shall permit the holder of the pawn ticket to inspect the entry of the sale in such book and
catalogue or in either of them.
36. Where any person
(a) offers to a pawnbroker an article by way of pawn, but refuses or is unable to give a satisfactory
account of the means by which he became possessed of it;  or
(b) willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered by him in pawn
to the pawnbroker is his own property or not, or as to his name and address, or as to the name and
address of the owner of the article ; or
(c) attempts or endeavors to redeem a pledge not being entitled to redeem; or
Notice of sale.
Proceeding at sale
of pledge for more
than the amount of
the loan, interest
and any tax.
Procedure on sale of
pledge before the
appointed date for
more than the
amount due and
interest.
Method of giving
notice under
sections 29, 30 and
31.
Purchase of pledges
by pawnbroker.
Power to inspect
sale books.
Proceedings where
persons offering
articles in pawn do
not give a good
account of
themselves.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1047
(d) offers to a pawnbroker an article by way of pawn and the pawnbroker has reason to suspect that
it has been stolen or otherwise illegally.
the pawnbroker may forthwith inform of an officer of police or peace officer, who shall forthwith
convey the person and the article before a court of competent jurisdiction to be dealt with according
to law.
37. It shall be lawful for a Provincial Revenue Commissioner, by an order served on any pawnbroker, to
require such pawnbroker to attend before him on a day and hour to be specified in the order, and to
produce for examination all books and papers relating to his business, and every pawnbroker on whom
any order is served under this Section shall comply with the requirements of such order.
38. It shall be lawful for any officer of police not below the rank of Sub-Inspector or any public officer
authorized in writing in that behalf by the Chief Secretary or any authorized officer to enter any
pawnbroker’s shop or place of business or residence at any hour of the day and examine and take note
of any article pledged with the pawnbroker, or any books and papers kept by him; and no person shall
resist any such officer inthe execution of his duty.
PART IV
O
FFENCES AND PENALTIES
39. Every person who -
(a) offers to a pawnbroker and article by way of pawn but refuses or is unable to give a satisfactory
account of the means by which he became possessed of it; or
(b) whillfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered by him in
pawn to the pawnbroker is his own property or not, or as to his name and address or as to the
name and address of the owner of the article or
(c) attempts or endeavors to redeem a pledge not being a person entitled to redeem such pledge, or
(d)  without lawful excuse pawns with a pawnbroker anything being the property of another person;
or
(e) makes a declaration under this Ordinance either for himself or as identifying another, knowing
such  declaration to be false in any material particular; or
(f) contravenes any provisions of this Statute or fails to do anything which he is required to do by
this Statute.
shall be guilty of an offence
40. Every pawnbroker who  -
(a) takes an article in pawn from any person appearing to be under the age of eighteen years or to be
intoxicated; or
(b) takes an article in pawn without giving the pawner the foil of the pawn ticket; or
(c) purchases, or takes in pawn or exchange, the foil of a pawn ticket issued by another pawnbroker;
or
(d) employs any person apparently under the age of eighteen years to take articles in pawn ; or
(e) purchases, except at a sale by public auction unde this Statute, any pledge while in pawn with
him, or
Pawnbroker’s book
subject to
examination.
Power to search
pawnbroker’s shop
or residence.
Offences by pawners
and other persons.
Offences by
pawnbrokers.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1048
(f) suffers any pledge while in pawn with him to be redeemed with a view to his purchasing it; or
(g) agrees with any person, pawning or offering to pawn any article, to purchase, sell or dispose of
such article within the period of redemption; or
(h) sells or otherwise disposes of any pledge pawned with him except at such time and in such
manner as it authorized by this Statute;  or
(i) makes any false entry in any book required to be kept by him under this Statute or fails to make
therein any entry which he is required to make by this Statute; or
(j) fails to have his business insured to the full entent of the value of all the articles pawned with
him; or
(k) contravenes any provision of this Statute or fails to do anything which he is required to do by
this Statute.
shall be guilty of an offence.
41. Every pawnbroker who knowingly takes in pawn any linen or apparel, or unfinished goods or materials
entrusted to any person shall be guilty of an offence; and where any court convicts any pawn broker of
an offence under this section the court may, in addition to any other punishement which it may impose
for that offence, order the pawnbroker to restore the pledge to the owner thereof inthe presence of the
court or as the court directs.
42. Every pawnborker who fails to deposit in the Provincial Council Fund the amount lying to the credit of
a pawner as required by Section 31 or Section 32 shall be guilty of an offence; and where any court
convicts any pawnbroker of such offence, the court may, in addition to any other punishment which it
may impose for that offence, order a sum equal to such amount to be recovered from that pawnbrokder
as though it were a fine imposed by the Court. Every such sum when recovered by the court shall be
deposited in the Provincial Council Fund to the credit of the pawner.
43. Anything done or omitted to be done by an employee or agent of a pawnbroker in the course of or in
relation to the business of a pawnbroker shall be deemed to be done or omitted, as the case may be by
the pawnbroker.
Provided that where, in the absence of a pawnbroker from his shop or place of business, anything is
done or omtted to be done by any servant or agent of the pawnbroker in contravention of any provision
of this Statute such servant or agent shall also be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to the penalty prescribed for that offence by this Statute.
44 (1) Every person who is guilty of an offence under this Statute shall be liable to a fine not exceeding
Twenty Five Thousand Rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Every such fine recovered under subsection (1) shall be credited to the Provincial Council Fund.
45. Where a pawnbroker or, in his absence, any agent or servant of the pawnbroker is convicted of any
offence under this Statute, or of any fraud in his business, or of receiving stolen goods knowing them to
be stolen, the Chief Secretary shall cancel the licence issued to that pawnbroker.
46. Wherever, in any proceeding under this Statute, it is made to appear to a court that any article is in the
unlawful possession of any pawnbroker, it shall be competent to such court to order the produciton of
the article and its a delivery to any person named by such court, under such items, if any, as it may think
proper.
47. Every pawnbroker shall submit an annual statement of accounts of his business to the Chief Secretaray.
Prohibition of
taking in pawn
linen, clothing,
unfinished goods,
&c., in certain cases.
Pawnbroker failing
to deposit in
Provincial Council
money lying to the
credit of a pawner.
Offences by an
employee or agent of
pawnbroker.
Penalty.
Cancellation of
pawnbroker’s
licence
Article in unlawful
possession of
pawnbroker.
Annual Statement of
Account

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1049
PART V
SUPPLEMENTARY
48. Where any sum of money is deposited to the credit of any pawner in pursuance of the provisions of Section
31 and Section 32 that pawner shall be informed there of that person shall be entitled to receive payment
of such sum of demand made to the Chief Secretary within one year from the date of such depost. If so such
demand is made within the said period of one year such sum shall, on the expiry of the said period, be
credited to the consolidated fund.
49. Anything by this Statute required or authorized to be done by a pawnbroker may be done by his servant
or agent.
50. For the purposes of this Statute the following persons shall be deemed to be persons carrying on business
of taking goods in pawn, that is to say, every person who keeps a shop for the purchase or sale of goods,
or for taking in goods by way of security for money advanced thereon, and who purchases or receives or
takes in goods and pays or advances or lends thereon any sum of money, with or under an agreement or
understanding expressed or implied or to be from the nature and character of the dealing reasonably inferred,
that those goods may be afterwards redeemed or repurchased on any terms, and evety such transaction,
article, payment, advance and loan shall be deemed a pawning, pledge, and loan, respectively, within this
Statute.
51. (1) The Minister may make regulations for giving effect to the provisions of this Statute.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by Subsection (1), the
Minister may make regulations -
(a) Prescribing any matter which is required by this Statute to be prescribed, and
(b) providing for any mater incidental or supplemental to the furnishing of security by
pawnbrokers.
(3) No regulation made by the Minister under this section shall have effect until it is approved by
Provincial Council and notification of such approval is published in the Gazette. Every regulation shall,
upon notification of such approval in the Gazette, be as valid and effectual as if it were herein enacted.
52. Any power, function or duty of the Chief Secretary under this Statute may be exercised or performed by
any public officer who is authoized to do so by writing under the hand of the Chief Secretary.
53. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Statute -
(a) any licence issued under the Pawn Broker Ordinance (Chapter 99) shall be deemed to be a licence
issued under this Statute;
(b) any regulation made under the Pawn brokers Ordinance(Chapter 99) shall be deemed to be regulations
made under this Statute until regulations under this Statute is made; and
(c) any action instituted or any order given by any court regarding such action on the day immediately
prior to the appointed date, shall be deemed to an action instituted or any order given by any court
under this Statute.
54. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires -
Sums of money
deposited to
pawner’s credit in
Provincial Council
Agents, employees,
&c. of a pawnbroker.
Keepers of certain
shops to be deemed
pawnbrokers.
Regulations
Delegation of
powers, &c.,
Transitional
Provisions
Interpretation.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1050
“appointed date” means the date on which this statute cover into force;
“business place” includes a dwelling house, warehouse, place of business and any place where business is
transacted;
“Chief Secretary” means Chief Secretary of the Southern Provincial Council or any other officer duly authorized
by him;
“Governor”  means Government of Southern Provincial Council;
“foreign company” means a company in which Part XI of the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 applied;
“foreign firm” means a firm —
(a) consisting of two partners one of whom is not a citizen of Sri Lanka, or both of whom are not such
citizens; or
(b) consisting of more than two partners at least one of whom is not a citizen of Sri Lanka.
“month” means a period of thirty days for the purpose of charging profit or interest;
“pawnbroker” includes every person who carries on the business of taking goods in pawn except pawning
business carried out by bank;
“pawner” means a person delivering an article for pawn to a pawnbroker;
“Provincial Council” means Southern Provincial Council;
“Provincial Council Fund” means the fund established under the Section 19 of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42
of 1987;
“Minister” means Minister in charge of Finance in Southern Provincial Council;
“unfinished goods or materials” include any goods of any manufacture or of any part or branch of any
manufacture, either mixed or separate, or any materials whatever plainly intended for the composing or
manufacturing of any goods, after such goods or materials are put into a state or course of manufacture,
or into a state for any process or operation to be performed thereupon or therewith and before the
same are completed or finished for the purpose of wear of consumption.
(Section 3)
FIRST  SCHEDULE
Licence
I,………………………………Chief Secretary for Southern Provincial Council do hereby authorize and
license…………………………… of ……………………………to carry on the business of a pawnbroker at
……………………………within the limits of ……………………………in the ……………………………Southern Province, under
the provisions of the Pawnbrokers Statute.
This license will expire on ……………………………
……………………………,
Chief Secretary.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1051
(Section 17)
SECOND SCHEDULE
Form A
PLEDGE BOOK
Pledge Book of …………………………… Pawnbroker of……………………………
No. and date of the issue of
Pawn Ticket
No. of Pledge in the Month
Amount of Loan upon each Article
Profit or Interest  charged
upon each Article
Name of Pawner
Address of Pawner
Name of Owner if other
than Pawner
Description of each
Article pawned
Weight of Article if Jewellery
Value of each Article pawned
Date of Redemption
Name and address of Person
redeeming
Rs. c Rs. c Rs. c
(Section 17)
FORM B
Sale book of Pledges
Date and place of Sale :……………………………………………………
Name and Address of Auctioneer :……………………………………………………
No. of Pledge as in
 Pledge Book
Date of Pawning
Name of Pawner
Amount of Loan
Amount of Interest due
Amount for which
each Pledge was sold
by Auctioneer
Name and Address
of Purchaser
Rs. c Rs. c Rs. c

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1052
(Section 18)
FORM C
Pawn Ticket
Counterfoil No:.…………………
To be retained by Pawnbroker
Date :……………
Name and address of Pawnbroker:……………
I, the undersigned…………… of (address of pawner)
……………have this day pawned  with the aforesaid pawnbroker
……………worth Rs. ……………for Rs. ……………
Signature of pawner or left
Thumb impression of pawner
if unable to write his name
Foil. No. ……………
Date ……………
……………(name and address of pawner) has this day pawned
with the undersigned……………(name and address of pawnbroker)
…………… worth  Rs. …………… for   Rs. ……………
Signature of pawnbroker or
an employee or agent of
 pawn broker
(Section 22)
FORM D
Declaration where the foil of the pawn ticket is surrendered under Section 20
 without the signature of the pawner endorsed thereon
I, A. B. …………… of …………… in pursuance of the Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerely declare that ……………
pledged at the shop of ……………Pawnbroker, the article/s described below and received the foil of a pawn ticket for the same and t hat
for the purpose of redeeming the pledge I am unable to surrender the foil of the pawn ticket to the pawnbroker with the signatu re of the
said ……………(pawner) duly endorsed thereon, because the said …………………………(pawner) is dead/under a legal disability, to
wit ……………(nature of legal disability).
The article/s above referred to is/are……………
I, C. D. …………… in pursuance of the same Statute, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I know the person now making
the foregoing declaration to be A. B. …………… of ……………
Declared before me this ……………day of ……………, 20 ……………
Signature of A. B ……………
Signature of C, D ……………
………………………
Justice of the Peace.
…………………
…………………

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1053
(Section 24)
FORM E
Declaration where the foil of the pawn ticket is Lost, & c.
Take notice, if this declaration is false the person making its is punishable.
I, A. B.  of …………… in pursuance of the Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerely declare that …………… pledged
at the shop of ……………Pawnbroker, the article(or articles) described below, being……………  property and received the foil of the
pawn ticket for the same, which has since been …………… by ……………  and that the foil of the pawn ticket has not been sold or
transferred to any person by …………… or to …………… knowledge or belief.
The article(or articles) above referred to is(or are) the following:……………
And , I, C. D of …………… in pursuance of the same Statute, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I know the person now
making the foregoing declaration to be A. B., of…………………………
Declared before me this ……………day of …………… 20 ……………
………………………
Justice of the Peace.
(Section 28)
FORM F
Receipt
Date ………………………
Received on redemption of Pledge No ……………………………
Rs.  cts.
Amount of loan …… ……
Profit or interest …… ……
Business Turnover Tax …… ……
Total

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1054
THIRD SCHEDULE
1. Rate of Interest
The rate of interest on every Rupees Thousand shall be for every month or part thereof.
2. Relevant Tax
Where the any tax under any written law is payable by the pawnbroker on a loan on a pledge, such tax may be recovered
from the pawner.
3. Restriction on recovery of enhanced interest.
Where a pawnbroker is entitled to enhanced interest as from any date, such enhanced shall not be recoverable if the pawner
shows to the satisfaction of a civil court of competent jurisdiction that he failed to redeem the pledge before such date only
because the pawnbroker’s shop remained closed between 8 a.m. and 8 p. m. on the day preceding that date.
If the pawn to which this ticket relates is not redeemed within a period of twelve months from the day of pawning, It is
liable to be sold public auction.
If the surplus profits if any from the sale are not claimed by the pawner within oneyear from such sale, the said profits will
be placed to his credit inthe Provincial Council or one year.
FOURTH SCHEDULE
R
EGULATIONS RELATING TO AUCTIONS OF PLEDGES
1. The auctioneer shall cause all pledges to be exposed to public view.
2. He shall publish catalogues of the pledges, stating –
(a) the pawnbroker’s name and place of business;
(b) the month in which each pledge was pawned;
(c) the number of each pledge as entered at the time of pawning in the pledge book.
3. The pledges of each pawnbroker in the catalogue shall be separate from any pledges of any other pawnbroker.
4. The auctioneer shall give notice of the sale by advertisements inserted in at least one Sinhala, Tamil and English newspaper and
by notices displayed in places resorted to by the public in the area where the sale is to be held and such advertisements and
notices shall state –
(a) the pawnbroker’s name and place of business; and
(b) the months in which the pledges were pawned.
5. The advertisement shall be inserted on two several days in the same newspaper and the second advertisement shall be inserted
at least ten clear days before the first day of sale.
6. Where a pawnbroker bids at a sale, the auctioneer shall not take the bidding in any other form than that inwhich he takes the
biddings of other persons at the same sale; and the auctioneer on knocking down any article to a pawnbroker shall forthwith
declare audibly the name of the pawnbroker as purchaser.
7. The auctioneer shall, within fourteen days after the sale, deliver to the pawnbroker a copy of the catalogue, or of so much
thereof as relates to the pledges of that pawnbroker, filled up with the amount for which the several pledges of that pawnbroker
were sole, and authenticated by the signature of the auctioneer.
8. The pawnbroker shall preserve every such catalogue for two years at least after the auction.
05-563

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1055
KOBEIGANE  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Declaration as a Developed Area
IT is hereby notified at the general public that W. M. M. B. Weerasekara the commissioner of Local Government for North Western
Province have give the approval to the above resolution, adopted by sabha under the decision No. (04) iv of Sabha meeting held on 25th
May, 2012 by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Sub Section 1 of Section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 under t he
powers vested in Commissioner of Local Governments by the above sub Section of aforesaid Act.
W. M.M. B. WEERASEKARA,
Commissioner of Local Government,
Department of Local Government,
Kurunegala.
Office of Commissioner of Local Government,
20th March 2013.
RESOLUTION
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha proposes that the area described in schedule below which are in the jurisdiction of Kobeigane Prades hiya
Sabha shall be accepted to be a developed area and that
02. Arrangement shall be made to obtain the approval of Commissioner of Local Government for North Western Province to the
said adopted resolution.
S
CHEDULE
Area belongs to No. 129 Pannawa Grama Niladhari’s Division of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha Limits and is bounded on the
North by Properties claimed by M. M. M. Suhail on the possession of deed No. 9118 and by A. M. M Kaasim on the possession of de ed
No. 77773, on the East by properties lie with in 1000 meters limit from center point, on the South by Pannawa school and proper ties
claimed by A. W. Nazar on the possession of deed No. 34048 and on the West by properties lie within 100 meter’s limit from center point.
NOMINATION OF NEW ASSESSMENT ZONES
This assessment area starts from house of Mr. M. L. M. Kasim (left side) and house of Mr. M. I. M. Suhaib (right side) and cove rs area
(1400m)either side of the road up to Sinhala School and it is kindly in formed that those listed below should come to mosque on
03.06.2011 with plan and deed numbers.
Serial No. Name Deed No. Plan No.
01. Mr. M. I M. Suhaib 9118 1644
02. Mr. A. H. M. Smail 18818 1644
03. Mr. S. M. Paris 8291 1644
04. Mr. A. H. M. Ebrahim 8291 1644
05. Mr. A. M. M. Kasim Kuru/Pu 77773 1644
06. Mr. M. C. M. Ameen Kuru/Pu 77773 1644
07. Mr. A. H. M. Razak Kuru/Pu 77773 1644
08. Mr. M. C. L. Kaleel Kuru/Pu 77773 1644
09. Mr. A. I. Piridawus 45569 B 1644
10. Mr. A. I. Herj Asrad 45569 A 1644
11. Mr. U. L. Alisbrahim not settled 1644
12. Mr. U. L. M. Risvi 7475 1644
13. Mr. A. H. M. Uduma Labbe 7475 1645
14. Mr. A. L. Ismi 30987 1645
15. Mr. S. H. M Saul Hameed 2107 1645
16. Mr. M. C. S. Abdeen 144 1645
17. I. Sitthi Hamsiya 13220 1645
18. Mr. I. L. Thahir

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1056
19. Mrs. M. C. Ripana
20. Mr. M. C. Abul Jaiwar
21. Mr. Sewlabdeen
22. Mr. Najibdeen 25619 1645
23. Mrs. M. L. Meera Lebbe 25619 1645
24. Co-operative Shop crown land 1645
25. Pre-school crown land 1645
26. Co-operative Stores crown land 1645
27. Community hall crown land 1645
28. Mrs. A. C. Anida 1434 1645
29. Mr. A. S. Rashandeen 323 transfer 1645
30. Mr. Ismail
31. Mr. M. R. Sapiulla 1777 tranger 1645
32. Mr. U. L. Suwais
33. Mr. Rahuman
34. Mr. M. C. M. Abdul Kadar 2512 tranger 1645
35. Mr. Ishhath Lebbe 9181 tranger 1645
36. Mr. M. C. M. Nazir
37. Mr. Hanifa
38. Mr. Y . M. Nipahir
39. Mr. U. L. Hazis
40. Mrs. .U.L. Mahir
41. Mr. N. Mohomed
42. Mr. I. L. M. Mahir
43. Mr. M. R. A. Nazar 577 1645
44. Mr. M. H. Rizwan
45. Mr. Kadar
46. Mr. Habeeb 6465 1645
47. Mr. Imthiyas 6465 1645
48. Mr. A. L. Azim 6465 1645
49. Mr. A. C. M. Nazar (One Land) 1850 tranger 1645
50. Mr. A. C. M. Nazar (One Land) 1850 tranger 1645
51. Mr. A. C. M. Thaslim 1886 tranger 1645
52. Mr. P. Abdul Kadar
53. Mr. Arshad
54. Mr. Apoor
55. Mr. Nijabdeen
56. Mrs. Ummu Latheesa
57. Mr. Ismile
58. Mrs. Seha Umma
59. Mr. A. P . Abubakar
60. Mr. Nazeem
61. Mr. Huzein
62. Mr. Pahim
63. Mr. M. L. M. Kazim Heriditary Pannawa 1644
64. Mr. Kazlim
65. Mr. M. C. M. Haneepa 10988 Pannawa 1644
66. Mr. Ayyub 951 1644
67. Mr. M. S. M. Ismil  1196 9053
Serial No. Name Deed No. Plan No.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1057
68. Mrs. Leyya Umma 10112 1644
69. Mrs. A. H. Shareepa Umma 13953 1644
70. Mr. A. A. M. Razik 665 1764
71. Mr. J. M. Hazim 13952 1644
72. Mrs. Sapeeda Umma 992 1644
73. Mr. C. L. Abubalib 993 1644
74. Mr. S. L. N. Neina Mohomed 994
75. Mrs. Najeema
76. Mr. M. L. Muzthalin
77. Mr. A. W. Nazeer 34048 1645
78. Mr. M. I. M. Razik 34048 1645
79. Mr. P. Mohommadu
80. Mr. P.M. M. Hazim
81. Mr. A. P. M. Samin
82. Mr. Hazim
83. Mr. Naupar
84. Mr. Saleem
85. Mrs. I. L. M. Miriyat Bibi 219 Meti 1645
86. Mrs. I. L. M. Aisha Umma
87. Mr. A. H. M. Unduma Lebbe 213 1645
88. Mr. A. H. M. Nazim 213 1645
89. Mr. Abdul Razik
90. Mr. Mubarak 216 1645
91. Mr. S. M. Ismiyath 216 1645
92. Mrs. I.L. Nadeeja Umma Kuru/Pu 8028 1644
93. Block belong to mosque
94. Mr. I.L. M. Razik Kuru/Pu 25394 1442
95. Mr. I. L. M. Mahilar Kuru/Pu 25395 1442
96. Mr. I. L. M. Nizar Kuru/123396 1442
97. Mr. I. L. M. Thahir Kuru/Pu 123397 1442
98. Mr. Isak Lebbe
99. Mr. Isak
100. Mr. A. H. M. Niyaz Kuru/Pu 21092 1645
101. Mr. A.B. Suhu
102. Mr. Abdul Laththur 3938 1645
103. Mr. A. L. Nilar 1191 1645
104. Mr. I. L. Ahamadu Lebbe 1191 1645
105. Mr. I. L. Thamzeer 6702 1645
106. Mr. A. H. Ameer Akbar 32702 1645
107. Mr. I. B. Hardeen 4371 1645
108. Mr. M. H. M. Niyaz 4371
109. Mr. U. L. Shareep 13757 6667
110. Mr. Buhari 13758 6667
111. Mr. Ramshan
112. Mr. Humaise
113. Mr. Abdul Kadar
Secretary,
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
Serial No. Name Deed No. Plan No.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.05.2013
1058
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
05-638
Map of proposed new Assessment Tax Zone in Pannawa
Usgala
Althuwewa Mw.
100m limit
Usgala Pansala
up to Usgala
Akbar lane
From Metiwalagama
From Metiwalagama
Aisha Masjid Mw.
From houses
From Metiwalagama
From Metiwalagama
Komaina Mw.
Palliya Mw.
From houses
Up to Mosque
Up to Mosque
Jumma Masjid Mw.
Chaya lane
Car
Canal
Up to Paddy field
100m limit
100m limit
100m limit
100m limit
100m limit
Scale - 1,4000
Reference
Central line
 25m line
100m limit