

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PIYA DASUNA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Arundika Fernando M. P . for Puttalam District
on 22nd June, 2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Piya Dasuna Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 113]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on May 05, 2011)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  PIYA DASUNA  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the   “Piya
Dasuna”, has heretofore been formed  for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and  transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant such
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)” Act, No.    of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Piya
Dasuna” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be and become a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”), with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of the  “Piya Dasuna” and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full  power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide facilities to make efficient and fruitful use
of young labour and ability for the development of
the nation;
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Piya
Dasuna
Foundation.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25 The general
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
(b) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka ;
(c) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children to enable them to continue their
education, encourage them to attend school regularly,
assist them in their educational, philosophical,
religious, cultural and scientific activities and to
establish permanent and mobile libraries ;
(d) to promote and protect and Human rights, Human
values, fundamental freedoms, democracy and
pluralism in Sri Lanka ;
(e) to promote social and cultural activities for enriching
different ethnicities and for intergrading the
Sri Lankan communities ;
(f) to empower women, children and the marginalized
groups such as persons with disabilities, the poor
etc. ;
(g) to promote and encourage humanitarian, sports,
literary, spiritual activities ;
(h) to assist in the development of educational, religious,
cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities without any
reference to race, religion or caste and to conduct
various festivals and competitions ;
(i) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elders and establish
and maintain Children’s Homes and day care centres
for children and elders ; and
(j) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects ;
10
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and a Secretary, Treasurer
and another nine members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Anura Piyadarshana Yapa shall be the Chairman of the Board
of Directors for life and thereafter, the Family member of the
person who was holding office as the Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appoined to fill such vacancy
and such a new member shall hold office for a period of four
years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion of furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation or anyone of them including the
power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise money with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ
and dismiss servants required for the carrying out of the objects
of the Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the Affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting of the members  and by votes of
at least two-thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable  ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions  of
the various officers, agents and servants  of  the
Corporation ;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rules made by the  Corporation may  be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded in like manner as a rule made
under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to, the
Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the Centre.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation  shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There  shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporations shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, with full powers to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation of
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is, or are, by its rules prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
spent by the Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Funds of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
10
5
15
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of
chairman and one member of the Board of Directors who
shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing contained in this Act  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from, or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
reghts of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Piya Dasuna Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.

<!-- page 9 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
This Bill seeks to amend to Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006 and the legal
effect of such amendments are to provide for—
(a) the rate of the Economic Service Charge being paid on the turnover arising on or
after April 1, 2008 from the export of any articles or goods not to exceed
                                                                                                                0.25 per centum ;
(b) the remainder if any, of the amount paid as Economic Service Charge paid prior to
March 1, 2006, after the deduction of income tax therefrom, shall be deemed to
be a payment made in respect of the quarter commencing on April 1, 2008 ;
(c) amendments to be made to the Schedule to the Act, by amending the rate in items
4, 5 and 11 of the Scheduele and the insertion of two new items 4a and 11a to such
Schedule.