

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'15
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
111
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 112
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"037- 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'09'15                                                                                                        
No. 2,036 - FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 15,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  06th October  2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd September, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satis ﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
111 - B 81207-353 (2017/09)
Note .-  (i)  Municipal Councils (Amendment)   Bill was  published as a  supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of September 08,  2017.
  (ii)  Urban Councils (Amendment)   Bill was  published as a  supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   
Republic of Sri Lanka of September 08,  2017.
  (iii)  Pradeshiya Sabha (Amendment)   Bill was  published as a  supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   
Republic of Sri Lanka of September 08,  2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'15
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
112
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/51928.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: NP/28/04/02/
SLO/43/1258.     
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notiﬁ ed that for the purpose  of Dai - Ichi Ceylon  
(Pvt) Ltd  has   requested  on lease a  State land containing 
in extent about  01 Arc in the  Tracing  Plan  drawn  by  the  
colonization ofﬁ ce situated  in the   village of Sannasi  with  
belongs to the  Grama  Niladhari Division  of  223  Parandan 
coming  within the  area of authority  of Vauniya Divisional  
Secretariat in the  District of  Vauniya. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Gnanakannan Gnandprakasam  ;
On the East by : State Land  ;
On the  South by :  State Land ;
On the West by : Road. 
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved                  
conditions : - 
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease .– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( From 
17.08.2017 Onwards );
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease. –  In the  instances 
where the  assessed value of the   land  in the  year 
2017 is less than  ﬁ ve million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000) 
2% of the  market value of the land in the  said 
year, as per the valuation of the  chief valuer. In the 
instances where the assessed  value of  the  land in 
the  effective year of the lease in the more than  ﬁ ve  
million rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000)  4% of the  market 
value of the  land  in the  said year  as  a per  valuation 
of the  chef valuer.  The  amount of  the  lease must 
be  revised  in the  every ﬁ ve  years and  the  revision 
shall add 20% to the  amount that just preceded.   
Premium .- Not levied  ; 
 ( b) The lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 ( c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for   the purpose of  Commercial                 
purpose  ;
 ( d) This lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka  and  by other  institutions;  
 (e)  The buildings constructed and construction must be 
maintained in a proper state of repair.
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speciﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this  Notice is Published 
in the  Gazette  to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  K. G. A. K. P
ALUGASWEWA, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
28th August,  2017.
09-350