

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
507
507
wxl 1"697 - 2011 ud¾;= ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'03'11
No. 1,697 – FRIDAY , MARCH 11, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 18th March, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
March, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... 508
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... 509
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,696 of 04.03.2011 was not published.
The list of Jurors in Colombo High Court - 2011 has been published in Gazette No. 1,695 of 25.02.2011.
Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
508
Appointments, &c., by the Governors
APPOINTMENTS  MADE  BY  HONOURABLE  GOVERNOR  IN  THE  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  UNDER  THE
SECTION  32(1)  IN  THE  IV  PART  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  ACT,  No.  42  OF  1987
Serial Name/Service/Class/Grade The Post Appointed/Office/Effective Date
No.
01 Mr. Pradeep Thilakarathne, For the Post of Deputy Municipal Commissioner of the Municipal
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class III Council in Kurunegala with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 04.11.2010
02 Miss. A. K. W. W. M. N. K. Weerasekara, For the Post of Secretary to the Governor in North Western Province
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class I with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated  04.01.2011
03 Mrs. J. G . N. Dharmasiri, For the Post of Deputy Chief Secretary (Administration) in the Chief
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class I Secretariat in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms
of the letter dated 04.01.2011
04 Mrs. V . Malani, For the Post of Deputy Cheif Secretary (Training) in the Chief Secretariat
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class I in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 04.01.2011
05 Mr. Kamal Amarasinghe, For the Post of Acting Provincial Director of the Department of Social
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class II Service in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of
the letter dated 07.01.2011
06 Mr. H. P. M. S. D. Pathiraya, For the Post of Budged Director of Chief Secretariat in North Western
Sri Lanka Accountant Service, Class I Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 02.11.2010
(Supernumerary)
07 Mr. N. K. B. A. G . Narasinghe, For the Post of Accountant of the Department of Education in North
Sri Lanka Accountant Service, Class I Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter  dated
(Supernumerary) 03.12.2010
08 Mr. K. A. N. Premarathne, For the Post of Provincial Director of Department of Engineering in
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Class I North Western Province with effect from 01.12.2009
09 Ayur. Dr. Mrs. G . H. M. Uthpalani Herath Menike, For the Post of Acting Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner of the
Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service, Class I Department of Ayurveda in North Western Province with effect
effect from 05.04.2010
10 Ayur. Dr. Mr. R. A. Chaminda Kumara, For the Post of Ayurveda Medical Officer in the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Community Health Medical Officer Mawathagama with effect from 01.01.2011
11 Ayur. Dr. Mrs. H. K. P . R. Halloluwa, For the Post of Ayurveda Medical Officer in the Urban Council,
Community Health Medical Officer Mawathagama, with effect from 01.01.2011
12 Dr. Mrs. H. G . Chandana, For the Post of Ayurveda Medical Officer in the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Community Health Medical Officer Mawathagama, with effect from 01.01.2011
In terms of the order of Honourable Governor,
K
UMARI WEERASEKARA,
Secretary to the Governor,
North Western Province.
At Governor’s Office (North Western Province),
On 15th February, 2011.
03–178

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
509
Posts - Vacant
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  SERVICE
COMMISSION
The Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to
the Posts of Telephone Operator/Receptionist – Grade III
in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service
APPLICATIONS are called from the permanent residents within
the Sabaragamuwa Province who possess the following qualifications,
for the recruitment to the posts of Telephone Operator/Receptionist
– Grade III in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service.
02. The prevalent number of vacancies is 02.
03. The required qualifications for applying :
(i) The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should possess a sound physical health and good moral
character.
(iii) The age should be not less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years as at the closing date of applications (The
upper age limit is not applicable to those who are
presently employed permanently in the Public Service
or Provincial Public Service).
(iv) The applicant should be a permanent resident within the
authoritative area of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
for at least Three (03) years constantly as at the closing
date of applications.
(v) Educational qualifications.– Should have passed General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination
with 06 subjects including at least 04 Credit passes for
Sinhala language and Arithmetic or Pure Mathematics or
Commercial Arithmetic and English language ; or
Should have passed National General Certificate
Examination with 06 passes including English and 04
"B" passes or above for the subjects including Sinhala
language and Mathematics ; and
03 passes at the General Certificate of Education
(Advanced Level) Examination in any discipline.
Should have an ability to speak English fluently and a
practical knowledge about Tamil language.
(vi) Other qualifications.– At least one year experience in the
relevant field is required. Should have followed
successfully a computer certificate course which is longer
than 03 months or a higher course.
04. Salary scale.– Rs. 13,120 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 10 x 240 - 10
x 320 - Rs. 22,040 (in accordance to the M. N. 1-2006(a) of Pub. Ad.
Cir. 6/2006(iv)).
05. The procedure of applying and the relevant information :
(i) A prepared application according to the format given at
the end of this notification using both sides of a paper in
A4 size (21x29cm) should be forwarded by getting
certified the signature as mentioned below in 05(v). The
application should be prepared to set paragraphs from
01 to 10 on the first page and rest of the paragraphs to be
on the 2nd page. The closing date of application is
29.04.2011. The applications should be sent to, Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission, Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Council, New Town, Ratnapura by registered
post and on the top left hand corner of the envelope, it is
essential to state “Grade III - Telephone Operator/
Receptionist”. If the applicant is employed in the Public
Service or Provincial Public Service, his/her application
should be sent through the Head of the Department to
reach on or before the closing date of application. Those
applications which are not sent by following the said
official procedure will be rejected. Any other document
except the cash payment receipt, should not be annexed
to the Application.
(ii) Each applicant should pay an examination fee of Rs. 450
for the competitive examination. Examination fee can be
paid to any office of Ministry or Department (except
Local Government institutions) or to any Divisional
Secretariat in the Sabaragamuwa Province and the receipt
issued for it should be affixed to the relevant place of the
Application. The examination fee should be deposited
to credit to the Head No. 2003-90-01 of the revenue of
the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and this
examination fee is not refundable due to any reason.
(iii) The language medium of the examination .– The
examination will be held in the languages, Sinhala, English
and Tamil and it is not allowed to change the medium
mentioned in the application later.
(iv) Receiving applications.– Receipt of the applications will
not be acknowledged. Admission cards will be issued for
the applicants who are eligible for the above said post.
Those who have not received the admission cards within
7 days in advance to the due date of examination, inquiries
should be made by the candidate including the following
information to the Secretary to the Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Public Service Commission.
Name of the examination ;
Name of the applicant :––––––––––.
The post office where the letter was registered, registered
No. and date :––––––––––.
Applications received after the closing date, incomplete
applications, applications without paying the

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
510
examination fee to the credit of Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council’s revenue or the applications without affixing
the paid receipt of the examination fee and applications
incomplete with the relevant qualifications will be
rejected. Applicant should satisfy by himself about the
eligibility gained by him before the closing date of
applications according to the aforesaid notification.
Permitting to sit for the examination should not be
considered as an acceptance of qualifications relevant to
the said post. The venue of the examination will be
decided on the number of applications received.
(v) Attestation of the applicant’s signature.– The signature of
the applicant should be certified by a principal of a
Government school/Justice of Peace/Commissioner of
Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Commissioned officer of any
one of the three forces or any permanent officer who
draws annual consolidated salary not less than Rs.
240,360 in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
06. Selection Procedure.– Applicants those who fulfil the basic
qualifications will be directed to sit for a competitive examination
and qualified persons will be selected by an interview from those
who get the highest merit of the examination in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 15/90. If any problem arise regarding
the selection, final decision will be taken by the Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Public Service Commission. Decision regarding filling or
non-filling of vacancies by this calling of applications will be taken
by Sabaragamuwa Provincial Pubilc Service Commission.
07. Written examination .– The written examination will be
conducted by the Commissioner-General of Examinations/Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission and one question paper on
General Knowledge (duration 02 hours) will be given. (40% marks or
above is required to pass the examination).
Applicants are required to produce the admission card and National
Identity Card or valid passport at the examination hall to the
supervisor in order to prove his/her identity. Also, the applicants
should adhere to the examination rules and conditions.
08. Regulations on employment. – This post is permanent and
pensionable and it is required to contribute to the Widows’/Widowers’
and Orphans’ Pension Fund. Employees are liable to complete 03
years probationary period from the date of appointment and should
be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed in the Establishment
Code and the Financial Regulations and the orders given from time to
time by the Department and the Government and the Provincial
Public Service Commission.
09. Other matters. – Applicants should submit the documents
specially to prove the permanent residency in the district mentioned
in the application and the documents to prove the particulars
mentioned in the application when call upon for an interview on the
basis of highest marks scored at the examination. If it is revealed that
the false information has included in the application the candidature
will be cancelled and if it is revealed after the appointment he/she is
liable to be dismissed from the service. Public Service Commission
of the Sabaragamuwa Province reserves the right to take decisions on
the matters which are not included in this notification.
S
UNETHRA GUNAWARDHANA,
Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
Office of the Provincial Public Service Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Complex,
New Town, Ratnapura,
21st day of February, 2011.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF TELEPHONE
OPERATOR/RECEPTIONIST – GRADE III IN THE SABARAGAMUWA
PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE
Index No. :
(Office use only)
01. Name with initials :
(i) In English :––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
02. Name in full :
(i) In English :––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
03. The address to which the admission card should be sent :
(i) In English :––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
04. Applicant’s permanent district of residence :
05. Sex :
(Female – F,  Male – M)
06. The medium of language appearing for the examination :
(Sinhala/Tamil/English)
07. Telephone No. :
08. Date of Birth :
Age as at 29.04.2011 :–
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) examination :––––––––––.
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) examination :––––––––––.
11. Other qualifications :––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'11
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2011
511
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
12. State the following particulars regarding the district of permanent
residency :
(i) Name of the Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(ii) The time duration of the permanent residence in the
Sabaragamuwa Province as at 29.04.2011 :––––––––––.
13. If the applicant was employed in the Public Service or Provincial
Public Service and expel or resign from it due to any reason the
post held and the name of the serving department and reason for
the resignation :––––––––––.
14. Whether you were convicted for any offence, indicate in detail :
––––––––––.
15. The information about the payment of Rs. 450 for the
examination fee that was debited to the revenue of the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council :
The date of payment :––––––––––.
The office which the payment was done :––––––––––.
The number of the receipt :––––––––––.
(The paid receipt should be pasted to the application)
This is to certify that the above mentioned particulars furnished
by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I know for
certain that according to the rules and regulations of the above
examination, it is liable to cancel my candidature before the examination
or aftermath and dismiss if it is revealed that the false information
has been furnished by me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATION OF THE CANDIDATE’S SIGNATURE
This is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... who submit
this application is personally known to me and put his/her signature
in my presence on .................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :––––––––––.
Post and the rubber stamp :––––––––––.
If the candidate is being employed in the Government or in the
Provincial Public Service the certificate mentioned below should be
certified by the Head of the Department or an empowered officer :–
(i) This is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss....................... who is
serving in the Post of ................ since .................. in this
Department, has earned all the increments of the salary and
not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment against
his/her except advices and all the particulars furnished in
the application are true and accurate.
(ii) I further certify that if he/she is selected to the aforesaid
post, the applicant can be/cannot be released from the
present post he is now employed.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department/Institution/
Empowered Officer.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Department/Institution (Please place the rank seal) :––––––––––.
03–399