

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1972
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1972 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"400 – 2024 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'08'30
No. 2,400 –  FRiday, august 30, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th september, 2024, should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th september, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 government Printer.
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1969 - B 082604 - 5,403 (08/2024)
N. B.–  Parts ii and iV(a) of the gazette No. 2399 of 23.08.2024 were not published.
 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1970
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-general :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident Fund.  the government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1971
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner general of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1972
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
mINISTR y Of fOREIGN  AffAIRS
1 st  and 2 nd  Efficiency Bar Examination and Foreign 
Language Test for the Officers of the Sri Lanka 
Foreign Service - 2020(2024)
IT is hereby notified that the 1 st  and 2 nd  Efficiency Bar 
Examinations and the Foreign Language Test for the Officers 
in the sri Lanka Foreign service will be held in december 
2024 colombo and in sri Lanka Missions abroad.
02. the time table would be prepared enabling the 
candidates to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations 
at the sametime.
03. syllabus:
 the syllabus and the other provisions, by which the 
1
st  and 2 nd  Efficiency Bar Examinations are governed, 
are indicated in the respective service Minute.
 the syllabus and the other provisions for the First 
and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations and for the 
foreign languages are also indicated in appendix 
"a".
 The officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examination at one or more sittings, 
as per their choice.
04. The subjects for which the officers should appear in 
the Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows:
1
st  EFFiciENcy BaR  ExaMiNatioN
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration 
hours
PART I
01 Finance 03
02 History and geography of sri Lanka 03
PART II
03 Elementary constitutional Law and 
international Law
03
04 diplomatic Practice 03
05 International Affairs 03
06 the sri Lanka Foreign service 
Minute. Foreign Ministry 
Regulations and computer Literacy
03
Post - v acant
CONSTITuTIONAL   COuNCIL
Appointment of a Member to the Public Service Commission
aPPLicatioNs  are called from interested individuals to fill a vacancy in the post of a member of the Public Service 
commission.
as stipulated in the article 54 of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, a person who 
is a Member of Parliament, a Provincial council or a local authority shall not be eligible for the appointment as a member 
of the Public service commission. Further, every person who immediately before his/her appointment as a member of the 
Commission, was a public officer in the service of the State or a judicial officer, shall upon such appointment taking effect, 
cease to hold such office and shall be ineligible for further appointment as a public officer or a judicial officer.
the applications should be prepared in accordance with the information sheet which is available in the Parliament 
Web site www.parliament.lk  with a quick link named 'Appointment of the members to PSC ', and the duly completed 
applications should be sent to;
Secretary-General to the Constitutional Council
Constitutional Council - Office
Parliament of Sri Lanka
Sri Jayewardenepura kotte
on or before 23 September 2024 by registered post or by email to constitutionalcouncil@parliament.lk . indicate 'Appointment 
of Members to PSC' on the top left hand corner of the envelope, or as the subject of the email.
Published on the order of the constitutional council.
secretary-general to the constitutional council
Constitutional Council - Office
Parliament of sri Lanka
sri Jayewardenapura Kotte.
30th august, 2024.
08-238

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1973
2Nd EFFiciENcy BaR  ExaMiNatioN
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration 
hours
PART I
21 Economic and social development 
in sri Lanka
03
22 administration 
(a) Office systems & 
organizational Methods
(b) Establishments code 
(V olume i & V olume ii)
03
PART II
23 Elementary constitutional Law and 
international Law
03
24 diplomatic Practice 03
25 International Affairs 03
FoREigN  LaNguagEs
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration 
hours
07 arabic 02
08 French 02
09 Russian 02
10 spanish 02
11 Hindi 02
12 chinese 02
13 german 02
14 Japanies 02
15 italian 02
16 Korean 02
05. The attention of the Officers sitting for these Efficiency 
Bar Examinations is drawn to the paragraph 5 of the 
treasury circular No. 701 dated 04
th  september 1966 
which is reproduced below.
 "departmental examinations (including Promotional 
and Efficiency Bar Examination)
 the medium for promotional Examinations as well as 
Efficiency Bar Examinations should be the language in 
which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination 
to enter the Public Service or the Official Language. 
in case where initial recruitment has been taken place 
without a competitive examination, the medium for 
promotional and Efficiency Bar Examination should 
be the language in which the officer was qualified 
for entry into the Public Service or the Official 
Language."
05.1 Issuance of Results:
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks 
or above for each subject for a pass. Two separate 
result sheets, containing the results of individual 
candidates, pertaining to both First & second 
Efficiency Bar Examination will be sent only to the 
Foreign secretary by the commissioner general of 
Examinations.
06. arrangements will be made by the commissioner-
general of Examinations for the candidates to answer 
the question papers in sinhala, tamil or English, 
except for the question papers on foreign languages. 
Medium applied to sit for the exam cannot be 
changed.
07. if a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium 
in which he is not entitled to sit, his/her candidature 
will be cancelled.
08. application forms should be prepared in the a-4 
size paper as per the specimen appended to this 
notification, containing items 1-8 on the first page 
and the rest on the second page, Both sides of the 
paper should be used. Applications should be filled 
clearly in applicant's own handwriting. applications 
prepared in sinhala and tamil medium should 
also bear the name of the examination in English. 
candidates appearing for both Examinations should 
submit separate applications in respect of each 
examination.
 since the applications which are not in conformity 
with the specimen and not provided with the required 
details will be rejected without notification, the 
applicants are advised to keep photocopy of  the 
application. Before sending the application, the 
applicant should verify whether the complete 
application is in conformity with the specimen form 
given in the notification regarding the examination 
and all the details have been included in it and receipt 
has been affixed to it.
09. Penalty for furnishing false information :-
 y ou should be careful to provide correct information in 
perfecting the application. according to the laws and 
regulations, in an applicant is found to be ineligible at 
any time before, during or after the examination his/
her candidature is liable to be cancelled.
10.  the examinations will be conducted by the 
commissioner general of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations prescribed by the commissioner general 
for conducting the examination. candidates are 
subject to the laws and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner general of the Examinations in 
relation to examination procedure and issuance of 
the results, in case of any violations of such laws 
and regulations, the candidate will be subject to a 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1974
penalty imposed by the commissioner general of the 
Examinations.
11. all applicants should send their applications to 
the Human Resources and Mission Management 
division of the Foreign Ministry for forwarding them 
to the commissioner general of examinations, on or 
before 20 september 2024. those who are serving 
in sri Lanka missions abroad should send their 
applications through the relevant Heads of Mission. 
any application received after the closing date will 
be rejected.
12. admission cards will be issued by the commissioner 
general of Examination to all the applicants who had 
submitted the duly perfected application on or before 
the closing date of applications and receipts for the 
payment of the required examination fees as per the 
notification attached, on the presumption that only 
those who possess the qualifications have applied. 
a notice will be published in the newspapers and 
the official website to that effect by the Department 
of examinations as soon as the admission cards are 
issued. in case the admission card of any candidate is 
not received within 02 or 03 days after the appearance 
of the notification, it would be more effective to 
send a letter by fax to the sri Lanka department 
of Examinations along with the photocopies of the 
application forms and the receipt (if the payment 
of an examination fee is relevant) mentioning a fax 
number enabling the same department to fax a copy 
of the admission card to the candidate.
12.1 issuing an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as that he/she has 
fulfilled the required qualifications to sit for the 
examination or for the post.
12.2 the applicant should get his/her signature 
placed in the application and the admission 
card attested by the head of institution or an 
officer to whom the power is delegated by him.
13. subsequent appeals by the candidates who fail 
to comply with the requirements as stipulated in 
paragraph 11 above will not be entertained. candidates 
should sit for the examination at the examination hall 
assigned to him/her. Every candidate who appears for 
the examination should produce the admission card 
with his/her signature attested to the supervisor of 
the examination hall. candidates who have failed to 
produce his/her admission card will not be allowed to 
sit for the examination.
14. candidates must prove their identity to the satisfaction 
of the Supervisor for each subject they sit for in the 
examination hall. any of the following documents 
will be accepted for that purpose:
 (i) National Identity Card;
 (ii) Valid Passport;
 (iii) Valid driving License.
 Further, candidates should enter the examination 
hall without covering their face and ears in order 
to verify identity. candidates who refuse to prove 
their identity will not be admitted to the examination 
hall. Furthermore, from the moment of entering the 
examination hall until the end of the examination and 
leaving, the candidates should not cover their face 
and ears so that the authorities can identify them.
15. the candidates who sit for the examination for the 
first time are exempted from the examination fees, 
while in the case of the subsequent sittings, fees will 
be levied on the following basis;
 (a) First sitting (whole examination or part 
thereof) free of charge.
 (b) Each subsequent sitting
    Rs. Cts.
complete Examination 1200.00
One subject 600.00
 the receipt obtained for the payment of fees at any 
post office/ sub post office in the island or at a Foreign 
Mission/ Post to the credit of Revenue Head 20-03-
02-13 of the commissioner general of Examinations, 
should be affixed firmly to the application in the place 
provided. y ou are kindly informed that no fees other 
than the examination fees will be charged. Money 
orders or stamps will not be accepted for the payment 
of examination fees. under no co circumstances will 
the examination fees be reimbursed or transferred in 
respect of another examination. it will be useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt.
16. the decision of the Public service commission will 
be final with regard to any matter that has not been 
mentioned in this notification. The decision of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations will be final 
with regard to the examination.
17. in case of any divergence or inconsistency among 
different texts of this notification published in 
sinhala, tamil and English languages, the sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 Aruni Wijewardane,
 Foreign secretary.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Republic Building,
colombo - 1.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1975
SPECImEN   APPLICATION   fORm
MiNistR y  oF  FoREigN  aFF aiRs
1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations and Foreign 
Language Test 
for the Officers of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service - 
2020 (2024)
tHE  Medium in which the candidate is appearing for the 
examination.
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
sinhala - 2
t amil - 3
English - 4
01. the Examination applied for :
  (Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
examination Relevant No.
Efficiency Bar 1 1
Efficiency Bar 2 2
Foreign Language 3
  
02. (a) (i)   Name with initials (in sinhala/ t amil) :
  .............................................................................  
  .............................................................................
  (ii) Name with initials (in English block capitals) : 
  .............................................................................  
  .............................................................................
 (b) (i)   Name in full (in sinhala/ t amil) :
  .............................................................................  
  .............................................................................
  (ii)  Name in full (in English block capitals) : 
  .............................................................................  
  .............................................................................
03.  address : (For the dispatch of the admission card)
  ........................................................................................
  (in English block capitals)
  
04.  date of Birth :
  date :              Month :              year :
05.  National identity card No. 
06.  Mobile t elephone No. 
07.  sex :
  (Please mark the relevant number in the cage) 
  Male     - 0
  Female - 1
08. date of appointment to the sri Lanka Foreign service. 
  
 date :                Month :               year :
09. Present Post : ...................................................................
10. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the 
subject numbers given in paragraph 04 of the notification. 
(Applicants will be allowed to sit only for subjects indicated 
in the application.)
Subject Subject No.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
11. state whether the applicant has appeared for the whole 
examination or part thereof previously. if so, state the index 
number, subjects, year and the month : .................................
 i declare that, the informaton furnished above is accurate 
and that, i am eligible to sit for this examination in the 
language medium indicated above. Further, i shall abide by 
the rules and regulations laid down by the commissioner 
general of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the 
examination.
(For Office use only)

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1976
the receipt No. ........................ for payment of examination 
fee is annexed.
Fee paid : Rs. ....................................
    ...........................................,
    signature of the applicant.
date : ...................................
Examination fees
  i.  Post office/ sub post office/ Foreign Diplomatic 
Mission where the examination fee was paid.
   ...........................................
 ii.  amount paid : ...............................................
iii.  date : ..........................................
 i V.  Receipt Number : ..........................................
12. Certification by the Head of the Department
 commissioner general of Examinations,
  i, do hereby certify that the information furnished 
above is accurate and that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. 
is eligible to appear for this examination in the language 
medium indicated by him/her. i also attest the applicant's 
signature and the examination fees have been paid and the 
receipt is attached herewith.
    ...........................................
    signature and designation of the 
    Head of department
date : ...................................
(Official Stamp)
appendix "a"
1.  1st EFFiciENcy BaR  ExaMiNatioN
1.1.  The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination will consist 
of two parts and the officers may take both parts 
at one sitting or separately.
1.2. the examination will be conducted in the 
following subjects.
the Receipt should be pasted here 
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
Part i
(i) Finance - this paper is based on the following :
 
(a)  Financial Regulations of the government 
of sri Lanka, Part i (Except chapter x)
(b) the estimates for the current year 
 eg. their arrangement, the heads 
of revenue, Financial Methods and 
appropriation acts.
(c) Ordinance relating to specific accounts 
meaintained by the district secretariat.
(ii) History and geography of sri Lanka.
Part ii - sPEciaL  PaPERs
(i) Elementary constitutional law and international 
Law
(ii) diplomatic Practice
(iii) International Affairs
(iv) the sri Lanka Foreign service Minute, Foreign 
Ministry Regulations and computer Literacy.
1.3.  Each of the above papers will be of a three 
hour duration and the candidates are required to 
obtain 40% marks or above in each paper for a 
pass.
1.4. An officer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will 
be deemed to have passed the respective paper 
when he/she has obtained the qualifying marks.
2.  2Nd EFFiciENcy BaR  ExaMiNatioN
2.1.  The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination will 
consist of two parts and officers may take both 
parts at one sitting or separately.
2.2. the examination will be conducted in the 
following subjects.
PaRt i
(i) Economic and social development in sri 
Lanka.
(ii) administration - this paper is based on the 
following :
(a)  Office systems and organizational 
methods.
(b) Establishments code - V olume i and 
V olume ii.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1977
PaRt ii - sPEciaL  PaPERs
(i) Elementary constitutional Law and 
international Law
(ii) diplomatic practice
(iii) International Affairs
2.3. Each of the above papers will be of a three 
hour duration and the candidates are required to 
obtain 40 % marks or above in each paper for a 
pass.
2.4. An officer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will 
be deemed to have passed the respective paper 
when he/she has obtained the qualifying marks.
 Note : 
(i)  Questions on constitutional Law 
will be mainly on the evolution 
of the parliamentary system with 
of government of sri Lanka, with 
special reference to the constitution 
of the democratic socialist Republic 
of sri Lanka.
(ii) Questions on the international Law 
will include inter - state relations, 
both bilateral and multilateral and 
the diplomatic law and the law of 
treaties.
(iii) An officer who is an Attorney-at-Law 
or who has obtained a degree in 
Law from a recognized university 
will be exempted from the paper 
on Eelemenary constitutional Law 
and international law provided that, 
he/she has secured a pass in those 
subjects at the relevant Examination.
3.  FoREigN  LaNguagEs
3.1.  Foreign Languages
 (i)   arabic
 (ii) French
 (iii) Russian
 (iv) spanish
 (v) Hindi
 (vi) chinese
 (vii) german
 (viii) Japanese
 (ix) italian
 (x) Korean
3.2.  aforesaid each written question paper on 
foreign languages will be of two-hour duration. 
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above in each paper for a pass.
08-221
ThE ChIThThA  ADvANCED  
PSyChOLOGICAL  STuDIES  OPEN  
INSTITuTE  Of SRI  LANkA 
(Arrangements have been made to incorporate 
under the Parliament Act bill No. 105 of 2022)
Executive Diploma in Business Planning and 
Labour Law 2024/ 2025 (Main Intake)
ExEcutiVE  diploma in Business Planning and Labour 
Law of the chiththa advanced Psychological studies open 
institute of sri Lanka can be applied to those who are 
university students, after a/L students, who are studying in 
the business fields, Government or private sector employers, 
entrepreneurs, expect to expatriate or who are interested in 
business management and labour laws who have completed 
the following qualifications.
Qualifications : g.c.E. a/L 3s passes in any stream
  or
 acceptable other educational and 
professional qualifications by the 
governing council institute. 
Total credits : 30 
Semesters : 2 semesters
Nature of Course : online (open and distance Learning)

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2024
1978
Teaching Methods : Lectures and tutorials are delivered 
through the LMs system.
medium : English or sinhala
Course Duration : 12 months
Course fee and Student Registration Fee :
the registration fee is Rs. 1000.00, and the course 
fee is Rs. 36,000.00. an amount of Rs. 1000.00 must be 
paid as a registration fee while registering for the diploma.  
Rs. 36,000.00 can be paid at once or in 12 installments.
To Apply for the Course: the applicants should send their,
1. Photographs of a document that can verify their 
identity (National identity card/ driving license/ 
Passport)
2. g.c.E. a/L examination result sheet and other 
educational certificate photographs, 
3. self-coloured clear photograph
 to 076-9459206 (Whatsapp) number.
The last date for enrolling for the course : 29/09/2024
for more information : can inquire through the phone 
number 081 316 9800 at Office hours from 8.30 a.m. to 
4.30 p.m.
senior Registrar,
the chiththa advanced Psychological studies open 
institute of sri Lanka.
08-215
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.