

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by   Hon. Hunais Farook M.P.  for  Vanni District
on 09th October, 2013
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 271]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on September 30, 2013)
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Human Rights Organization

<!-- page 2 -->

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation) 1
5
10
15
2—PL 007591—75  (09/2013)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATION
WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the “Human
Rights Organization” has heretofore been formed  in No. 10,
Mosque Lane, Galle Road, Colombo 3 for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected  with the said Organization  according to the rules
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Human Rights
Organization  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many person as now are members of  the Human
Rights Organization (hereinafter referred to as the
“Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate,
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of  the
“Human Rights Organization” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued, with full
power and  authority to have and  use a common seal and to alter
the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to protect and make known human rights, humanities
and fundamental rights ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Human
Rights
Organization.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to promote and encourage humanities, sports and
social services ;
(c) to facilitate in providing various relief facilities to
those affected by the natural disasters and man made
disasters ;
(d) to conduct seminars, dialog and various programmes
of religious, social and cultural important locally and
internationally ;
(e) to organise leadership programmes ;
(f) to provide various support services to lower income
and poor people ;
(g) to lead a committee of patrons comprising of religious
leaders representing all communities ;
(h) to  establish and conduct libraries, to assist in printing
and publishing of books, magazines, souvenirs,
journals, cassettes, compact Disks and software and
to provide other services necessary to the attainment
of the objectives of the Corporation.
(i) to do acts in collaboration with institutions or
organizations local or foreign, having similar objects
to those of the Corporation ; and
(j) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.
4. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provision of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the
“Board”) consisting of the office bearers and such other
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
Management
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation) 3
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of the Foundation holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever  as  are  necessary  or  desirable  for  the
furtherance of  its objects or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security,  to
receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds, to
erect any building or structure on any land held by the
Corporation, and to  engage, employ and dismiss officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership,fees payable by
each calss of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members and for the
maintaining of register of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from, office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the
Corporation and any sub-committee therof,
including the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat ;
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for members
of the Board and the Corporation ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The rules of the organization in force on the day
preceding to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation made under this section.
7. The Executive Chairman and the Chairman, Co-
ordinator or appointed Member shall have the authority in
the Government and Non Government institute to—
(a) engage in negotiation with the concerned parties in
order to solve their dispute whatsoever, with good
intention of solving such disputes in the Government
organisations for the benefit of the people ;
(b) engage in dialog with concern authorities in any
Police Station within any administrative District is
Sri Lanka, for the welfare of the people, in order to
solve the dispute where an injustice has taken place ;
and
(c) act with the corporation of Honourable Members
and Minister of Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the Provincial
Council Members, the Pradeshiya Sabha Members
Rights to
engage in
dialog with
concern
parties with a
view to solve
the dispute.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation) 5
and the Gevernment and Non Government
Organization upon any complain or request made
any members in the society for their benefit in a
manner stated in paragraph (a) above.
8. The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All moneys
received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of  annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
5
10
15
20
25
30
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of person as may be duly authorized by the Board
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as witness.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation) 7
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other peron, except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .