

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
279
279
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st  November, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
07th November, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 280
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"887 - 2014 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'10'31
No. 1,887 - FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER  31,  2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Note.-Appropriation  Bill for the  Financial year 2015  was  published as a Supplement to the part II of the  Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka of September 19, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
280
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
My No. : 4/10/25515.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.:  CPC/LC/LD/4/1/32/798.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE   LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose,
Mr.  Samarakoan Mudiyanselage Syril  Ariyawansha  has requested
on lease a state land    containing in extent about 10 Perches   depicted
in the plan No.  NU/3/2/1/2/1632   and situated in the  village of
Toppas  which   belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division  of
Toppas coming within the area of authority of  Nuwara Eliya
Divisional Secretariat in the District of Nuwara Eliya.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Reservation of Kandy Road, Nuwara
Eliya;
On the East by : Jayasundara Cultivation Land  ;
On the  South by : Road Reservation ;
On the West by : Balance of Land.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  (From 15.06.1995
onwards);
The Annual amount of the Lease.– 4% of the  undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief  Valuer for
the Year 1995 ;
Penalty .-  Treble 4% of the developed value of the land;
(b) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the Residential Purpose ;
(d) This lease must also be subject to the other special conditions
stipulated and imposed by the Divisional Secretary and by
other institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g)  Permission will not be given for   other sub - leasing or
vesting except, for vesting within the family or sub - leasing
or vesting for the  purpose for which  the land was obtained
until  expiry of 05 years  from 16.08.2014. The right to
obtain a grant for  this  lease bond  will be given after the
expiry of 05 years from 16.08.2014  ;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(i) House construction activities must be completed within the
time frame specified in alienating lands for house construction
purposes and the failure to do so will be deemed as a lapse
of the  long - term  lease bond and the land will have to be
re-vested in the Government.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
 S. A. K
ALANI M. DHANASEKARA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's Department,
No. 1200/6,  "Mihikatha Medura"
Land secretariat, Rajamalwatta  Road, Battaramulla,
02nd October, 2014.
10-959
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.