

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
99
99
wxl 1"586 _ 2009 ckjdrs 23 jeks isl=rdod _ 2009'01'23
No. 1,586 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 23, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 102
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 109
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such Notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th January, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th
January, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
100
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
101
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
102
Posts – Vacant
SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Air Force in the following branches :
(a)  Electronics Engineering (EE) Branch,
(b) Air Field Construction (AFC) Branch
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing
the professional qualifications given below :
(a) Electronics Engineering (EE) Branch .– Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineering Officers (Male/Rugular)
BSc Degree in Electronics and Telecommunication
Engineering or NDT in Electronics and Telecommunication
Engineering or Higher National Diploma in Engineering
(Electronics Stream) or Diploma in Technology
(Electronics/Telecommunication Engineering) from Open
University of Sri Lanka or National Diploma in Engineering
Science (Electronics/Telecommunication Stream) or
equivalent qualifications.
(b) Air Field Construction (AFC) Branch.– Civil Engineering
Officers (Male - Rugular) :
BSc Degree in Civil Engineering or NDT in Civil Engineering
or equivalent qualifications.
Mechanical Engineering Officers (Male - Rugular) :
BSc Degree in Mechanical Engineering or NDT in
Mechanical Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
Architec (Male/Female - Rugular/V olunteer) :
BSc (BE) and one year on the job training/experience.
Surveyor (Male - Rugular/V olunteer) :
BSc Degree in Surveying Science/Surveyor Diploma at ISM
Diyatalawa.
3. Other Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil Status : Married and unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age.– (1) Electronics Engineering Branch.– Not more
than 30 years as at 1st March, 2009.
(2) Air Field Construction Branch.– Not more
than 35 years as at 1st March, 2009.
(e) Height : Male - 5’ 5’’ and above
Female - 5’ 4’’ and above
(f) Weight : BMI=Weight (Kg) <25
Height (m)2
(g) Chest : Minimum 32'' (Male)
(h) Vision Colour Standard  : CP2
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With or
without spectacles).
4. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the
service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be
considered, even though he may not have the requisite age or height,
provided he possesses the requisite academic and professional
qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be Commissioned in the Sri Lanka
Regular Air Force/Sri Lanka V olunteer Air Force in the Pilot Officer,
Flying Officer or Flight Lieutenant rank as applicable in keeping
with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his control, he will be liable to have his commission withdrawn
and/or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with
the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations pubilshed in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every officer
shall hold his appointment during the President’s pleasure". However
POLICE DEPARTMENT (SPECIAL TASK FORCE)
RECRUITMENT SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE
AS per the Government Gazette  Notification No. 1,580 of
11.12.2008 in connection with the above recruitment the closing
date of applications 15.01.2008 and applications has been extended
01 month till 15.02.2009.
Inspector General of Police.
01-749

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
103
an officer has no right to resign his commission unilaterally, but
under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, may be allowed
by the President to do so. The Provisions of any Bond/Agreement
envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect of training and
subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11
of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from the Air Force
will be applicable under conditions specified in the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He is
provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman service
will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and batman
allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para. 15(b)(15).
15.(a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer - Rs. 211,800 p. a.
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
  p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
  p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700
  p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 - Rs. 667,860
  p. a.
(b) Service Allowances :-
(1) Cost of living allowance for Pilot Officer Rs. 3,500
and Flying Officer and above Rs. 2,875 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 2,400 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month for those serving
in the Jaffna Peninsula. (Rs. 100 will be paid for each
working day at only Jaffna Peninsula).
(6) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(7) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(8) Ration allowance Rs. 8,816.09 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9)  Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(10) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
(11) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(12) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(13) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(14) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(15) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in appilcants own
hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All
cages of the application should be completed neatly
with as much details as possible. Applications should
be addressed to "Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air
Force, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to reach him not later
than 1200 noon on 30th January, 2009 under registered
cover. The envelope enclosing the application should
be marked" Application for Commission in the
…………… Branch". Applications received after the
closing date and not in accordance with the requirements
of this notification and not in registered post mail will
not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should
forward their applications through their Heads of
Department/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments
and should bear a certificate to the effect that the
candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies
of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificate of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant.
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
* Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced
only if and when the applicant is called for the
interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
104
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The
final selection will then be made after an interview
appointed by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid in this
respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he is to produce his National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate
will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment
will not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE IN THE ………………
BRANCH
01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate).
02. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
04. Branch applied :–––––––––––.
05. Post applied :–––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
07. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
08. Postal address :–––––––––––.
09. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
10. Height :–––––––––––.
11. District :–––––––––––.
12. Electorate :–––––––––––.
13. GS Division :–––––––––––.
14. Telephone number :–––––––––––.
15. Civil status :–––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Type of Year of Subjects passed
School/ examination examination (including
University grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
  Qualifications
Other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University :
(if applicable).
Name and address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment From            T o
18. Particulars of parents :–
Full Place of birth Occupation Present
Name address
Father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
20. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside
organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :–––––––––.
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :–––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
105
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Officer Cadet Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer
Cadets in the following branches :
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch,
(b) Equipment Branch,
(c) Administrative Branch,
(d) Administrative Regiment Branch,
(e) Operations Air Branch,
(f) Air Field Construction Branch.
2. Applications are invited from male candidates possessing the
qualifications given below:-
(a) BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications
(Accredited by the University of Kelaniya)
General Duties Pilot/Equipment/Administrative/
Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination
with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects not
considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the
GCE A/L examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce
Streams (as applicable) in one sitting.
(b) National Diploma (Technology/Engineering/Engineering
Science) Entrant Qualifications
Air Field Construction Branch
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L Examination
with four Credits including Credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects not
considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the
GCE A/L Examination in the Physical Science Stream in one
sitting.
(c) Other Entrant Qualifications
General Duties Pilot/Equipment/Administrative/
Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four
Credits including Credit passes in English language, Mathematics,
Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting
(additional and optional subjects not considered) and ordinary passes
in two subjects at the GCE A/L examination in Physical/Bio Science/
Commerce Streams (as applicable) in one sitting. Students of
the Arts Stream with a minimum of two ordinary passes at the
GCE A/L examination are also eligible to apply for the
Administrative Regiment Branch.
3. Other Requirements.—  Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not
more than 22 years as at 15th
April, 2009
(c) Height : 5' 6" and above
(d) Weight : BMI =
 Weight (Kg) < 25
      Height (m) 2
(e) Chest : 32” (Minimum)
(f) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6
(without spectacles)
(h) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. No
Cadet will be permitted to marry
whilst under training and for a
further period of one (01) year
from the date of Commissioning.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement
of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the
height and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered
even though he may not have the requisite height provided he
possesses the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :
–––––––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials :–
Name Designation Postal Address
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
01–586

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
106
6. Conditions of Service :
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a
cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as for
other ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training
Course. On successful completion of training, the duration
of which will depend on the branch, the status allocated
on his enlistment as an other rank will lapse and will
receive a permanent commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri
Lanka or Abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the period of training as cadets and thereafter,
personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms,
equipment and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a cadet will be accommodated
in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) In the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his
candidature for a commission during training, the parent
or guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of
Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the
Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such cadet.
(g) If at any time during his course a cadet is reported by the
authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct
or due to causes within his control to qualify for a
commission, his parent or guardian will be required to
refund to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on
his training and will be required to enter into a bond to this
effect with the Commander of the Air Force acting on
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage
26 of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs (f)
& (g) above, and forward them together with the
application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in
to a bond subsequently in this form with the Republic of
Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as
cadets.
(j) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para 2
and 3 will be called for the Preliminary Interview and if
successfull will be called for the Officer Quality Tests.
Candidates who pass the Officer Quality Tests will be
called for Medical Examinations (all candidates selected
will be medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force
arrangements) and if applicable Flying Aptitude Tests.
Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be
called for the Final Interview. The required number of
candidates per branch will be selected according to merit
at these interviews and tests.
(k) A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He
is provided with furnished accomodation and food.
Batman service will be provided. A single officer’s ration
allowance and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
(l) A married officer may be provided with a married quarter
if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to
public servants.
(m) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in
any part of the world at any time.
(n) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements.—  The selected candidates
will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the
provisions the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Consolidated pay rate : The scale of consolidated pay
applicable to officer cadets and commissioned ranks shall
be as follows:
Officer Cadet - Rs. 180,240 p. a
Pilot Officer - Rs. 211,800 p. a
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Wing Commander- Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 = Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 = Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance for Officer Cadet/Pilot Officer
Rs. 3,500 and Flying Officer and above Rs. 2,875 per
month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 2,400 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas (Rs. 100 will be paid for
each working day at only Jaffna Peninsula)
(6) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(7) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(8) Ration allowance Rs. 8,816.09 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month)
(10) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse & children)
(11) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(12) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
107
(13) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable)
(14) Married officers permitted to live-out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(15) Flying pay for those in the General Duties Pilot
Branch.
(16) Rent allowances for married officers not in occupation
of a Government married quarters. Pilot officer to
Group Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per
month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities:– Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All Officers are contributors to the Widows’ and Orphans’
Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per
Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own
hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All
cages of the application should be completed neatly with
as much details as possible. Applications should be
forwarded under registered cover to : "Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 30th January,
2009. The envelope enclosing the application should be
marked "Application for Cadetship in .................
Branch". Applications received after the closing date and
not in accordance with the requirements of this notification
and not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of
the following documents when summoned for interviews
or when called upon to do so :-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (certificate issued
for the purpose of the education code will not be
accepted),
(2) Certificates in support of the educational
qualifications required for the branch applied for,
(3) Certificates of trade/technical training and/or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution,
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the Principal of the last school
attended and the other from a responsible person
who has the know of the applicant for more than two
years or from the present employer (if employed),
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.;
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any
originals of certificates if enclosed with the application
form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after selection.
12. Selection Interviews etc.:
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview of those
selected candidates by a selection board appointed by
the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
Travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he is to produce his National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d
) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will
result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
WDRMJ G
OONETILEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
108
Application for Officer Cadet in the .................... Branch of
the Sri Lanka Air Force
1. Nationality: ————.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration and if latter, quote number and date of Certificate)
2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) : ————.
3. National Identity Card Number : ————.
4. Permanent address : ————.
5. Postal address : ————.
6. Date of Birth : ————.
(Age as at 30.01.2009)
Years: ———, Months : ——, Days : ———.
7. Height : ————’ ————”
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent Address : ————.
9. District : ————.
10. Electorate : ————.
11. G . S. Division : ————.
12. Telephone Number : ————.
13. Married or Single : ————.
14. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Type of Year of Subjects
School/ examination examination passed
University (including
 grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other
15. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University:-
(if applicable)
Name and address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment From To
16. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present Address
Father
Mother
17. Any special qualification for the post : ————.
18. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of
teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) : ————.
19. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) : —–—.
20. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization : ————.
21. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or
any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications : ————.
22. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details : ————.
23. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in
the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central
Bank, National Bank, Universities Joint Stock Companies
controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of
employment : ————.
24. Particulars of Testimonials :-
Name Designation Postal Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :-
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——————————.
26. Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the
applicant :
(a) I am the Parent/Guardian of …………………… who is an
applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and
who has signed the declaration in cage 25 of the form of
application above.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
109
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above
named applicant being selected for a course of training for
the following.
(i) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant voluntarily terminating his
candidature for a Commission during his
period of training all expenses incurred upto that time
by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such
applicant.
(ii) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable (for reasons of misconduct or due to
causes within his own control) for the issue of a
Commission all the expenses incurred on his account
by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
——————,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
——————,
(Signature of First Witness)
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………
—————————————,
(Signature of Second Witness)
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
01 - 587
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT
TO THE POST OF DIRECTOR, PHILATELIC
BUREAU DEPARTMENT OF POST – 2007
Post of Group "A" Grade II of Unified Postal Service
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for
the post of Director, Philatelic Bureau, Department of Posts.
Selections for this post will be made through a written Competitive
Examination held in Colombo, by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Departmental candidates and candidates from other
Departments and Semi-Government Institutions should forward
their applications through the respective Heads of their institutions.
The closing date of the applications will be 13.02.2009.
01. Age Limit :
(i) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age as on 13.02.2009.
(ii) The maximum age limit will not be applicable to those
who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public
Service.
02. Medium of Examination.- Candidates should answer all
question papers in one language. They will not be permitted to
change the medium of examination mentioned in applications.
03. Educational Qualifications :
(i) For external applicants.- Applicants should possess a
Special Degree with a class either in Economics,
Commerce, Business Administration or Public
Administration from a recognized University.
(ii) For internal applicants.- Internal applicants should be
the officers of Group A Grade III Segment A, in the
Unified Postal Service with a period of 10 year service in
permanent capacity and who possess a Degree from a
recognized University.
04. Professional and other Qualifications (for both external &
internal applicants) :
(i) Should possess a Diploma in Marketing from a
Government recognized Institution and proven tract record
in successful practical experience over a minimum period
of three (03) years.
(ii) Should possess a good knowledge of English. It should be
proven by a certificate obtained from the Department of
Examinations or from an approved Instituion or at an
examination. (Knowledge of French or German language
will be an added qualification.)
05. Salary Scale.- Rs. 214,980 – 2 x 7,740 – 5 x 8,580 –
Rs. 2,73,360 (TB 6 – 1)
(In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 09/2004.)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
110
Efficiency bar examination should be passed before the lapse of
three (03) years after assuming the appointment. Releasing from
the Efficiency bar will not be effected on the age.
06. Method of Recruitment.- Vacancies will be filled from the
eligible candidates on merit shown at a written competitive
examination to be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations
and on recommendation of an Inteview Board appointed by the
Public Service Commission.
07. Terms of Engagement :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected Officers
should make contribution for the Widows'/Widower's and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) Conditions in sections 10-12 in Chapter 11 of the
Establishments Code will apply.
08. Examination Fees.- The fee for this Examination will be Rs.
300/-. But those who are already in the Public Service should pay
only Rs. 150/-. This fee could be paid at the nearest Post Office and
the receipt issued thereto should be pasted on the rlevant cage in
the application form. This examination fee is not refundable on any
reason.
09. Method of Applications :
(i) The applications should be in the form of Specimen
appended to this notice and should be prepared on either
sides of a paper size of 297 mm x 210 mm (A4).
(ii) Candidates who are not in Public Service should furnish
the names of two persons, personally known to him, as
Referees in order to certify his/her character and
competency.
(iii) Signature of the candidates who are already serving in the
Department of Posts/Public Service/Provincial
Government Service should be attested by the relevant
Head of the Department/Branch or by an officer
authorized by him. Signature of other candidates should
be attested by Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths,
Notary Public, Principal of a Government school,
Commissioned Officer of an Armed Force, Gazetted
Officer in the Police, or an Officer holding a permanent
post in the Government drawing a salary of over
Rs. 240,360/- per annum.
(iv) Applications duly perfected shall be sent under registered
cover to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on
or before 13.02.2009. The top left hand corner of the
envelope, enclosing the application, shall be marked the
words "Post of Director – Philatelic Bureau of the
Department of Posts". Late applications will be rejected.
(v) No allegation that an application or related correspondence
has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. It will
be useful if photocopies of the application and the receipt
obtained after paying money are retained with the
candidate.
10. Admission to the Examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all candidates who have forwarded
their duly filled applications on or before the closing
date. Issuing of an admission card to sit the examination
will not be treated as his/herf eligibility for the post.
Candidates presenting themselves for the examination
must produce their admission cards, in which their
signatures have been certified, to the Supervisor of the
Examination Centre. A candidate who fails to produce
his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit the
examination.
(ii) All candidates are bound to abide by the general rules
pertaining to Government Examinations. If a candidate
does not receive his/her admission card at least seven
(07) days prior to the date of the examination, he/she
should at once notify it to the "Commissioner General of
Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla". The following
particulars should also be furnished in informing the
Commissioner General of Examinations of the non-receipt
of the Admission card.
(a) Name of Examination ;
(b) Full Name of Candidate ;
(c) Full Address ;
(d) Date of posting the Application ;
(e) Registration No. and the Post Office.
(iii) Admission to the Examination does not constitute
acceptance of eligibility. The Commissioner of
Examinations may however grant a candidate provisional
admission to the Examination at his discretion. Such
candidature will subsequently be either confirmed or
cancelled.
(iv) Identity of Candidates.- Candidates will be required to
prove their identity in the Examination hall to the
satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they offer.
Any of the following documents will be accepted for this
purpose :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Valid Passport.
(v) Penalty for furnishing false information.- If any of the
particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false
according to the rules and regulations of the examination,
his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
prior to, during or after the examination.
(vi) If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found
to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she willfully
suppressed any material fact, he/she will liable to be
dismissed from the Public Service.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
111
11. Scheme of Examination and Syllabus.- Written Examination
will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media and will consist of
three question papers. 40% marks for each subject should be
obtained for eligibility :
(i) Intelligence - 100 Marks - Duration : 01 hour
15 minutes
(ii) Marketing - 100 Marks - Duration : 02 hours
(iii) English - 100 Marks - Duration : 02 hours
(I) Intelligence.- This paper is designed to provide an
assessment of Candidate's power of logical
reasoning analysis and ability to draw sound
inference.
(II) Marketing.- This paper is designed to test the
Candidate's knowledge in Marketing which includes
Market Segmentation, Target Marketing, Market
Research and Market Information, Market
Planning, Communication, Product Development,
Pricing, Market Coverage and Sale Strategy.
(III) English.- Content
(a) Grammer- The Following areas will be
tested :
(i) The verb Forms of the principal
tenses of English
E.g.- The Simple Present Tense,
The Simple Past
The Future
The Present Perfect, etc,
(ii) Nouns.- Countable, Uncountable
(iii) Pronouns
(iv) Adjectives, Degrees of Comparison
(v) Adverbs of Frequency, Word order,
Phrases and Sentences
(vi) Prepositions
(vii) Determiners
(viii) Question Words
(ix) Model Auxiliaries, Can, Could, May,
Might, Should, Must, Ought to.
(x) The Definite Articles
(xi) Cardinals/Ordinals
(xii) The Passive Construction
(xiii) Relative Clauses
(xiv) If Clause
(xv) Reported Speech
(xvi) There is/There are
(xvii) Have/Has
(b) Vocabulary : The Vocabulary tested will be
at of General Modern English with special
emphasize on the following fields. i. e.
Management, Administration and Social and
Economic Development.
(c) Writing : Ability to write Essays,
Departmental Reports, Official Letters,
Circulars, Minutes, Memos, Filling Forms.
By order of,
Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Posts & Telecommunications.
Ministry of Posts & Telecommunications,
6th floor,
Postal Headquarters,
Colombo 10,
06th January, 2009.
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF POSTS
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post
of Director, Philatelic  Bureau - 2007
Medium of Examination : Sinhala - 2
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage) T amil - 3
English - 4
01. (i) Last name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss : ————.
(In block letters) E.g. SILV A A. B.
(ii) Names denoted by initials : ————.
(In block letters)
02. Address :————.
(Officers of the Postal Department should furnish their
official address.+)
Address to send admission card : ————.
(In block letters)
03. Gender : Male      - 0
      Female   - 1
(Indicate the relevant No. in cage)
04. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii)Age as on 13.02.2009 :
Years : Months : Days :
05. Educational Qualifications : (Details of the Degree obtained)
Degree Y ear Subjects Class Upper/ University
Lower

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'01'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.01.2009
112
06. (i) Professional and Other Qualifications :————.
(ii) Knowledge of English, French & German Languages :
————.
07. Names and Addresses of the two Referees in order to certify
the character and competency :
(i) :————.
(ii) :————.
08. Additional particulars required to be furnished by Officers
in the Department/Public Service :
(I) ( a) Service/Department you belong :————.
(b) Date of permanent Appointment :
Year : Month : Date :
(II) ( a) Present Post :————.
(b) Date of appointment to the Present Post
Year : Month : Date :
(III) Present Consolidated Annual Salary :
Rs. :————.
09. Examination Fee :————.
Cash Receipt to prove the payment of
examination fee, may be affixed partly but securely.
10. I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form are true and correct and that I
have affixed the receipt No. ................................. dated
....................... 2009, being payment of examination fee. I
also agree to be bound by the rules and regulations governing
examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it
is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of
this examination. I am also aware that if it is found that I am
ineligible after selection, I am liable to be dismissed from
service.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——————————.
11. Certification of Signature (Vide. 9-III of Gazette notification.)
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./ Miss ............................
is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature
before me.
———————,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :————.
Full Name of the Attestor :————.
Designation :————.
Address:————.
12. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
(For those who are already in the Government Service)
I certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss. ..........................
is serving in this Department with effect from
................................. His/Her work and conduct are always
satisfactory, the details furnished above were personally
scrutinized and are correct according to the records available
in this office, there is no disciplinary inquiry pending against
him/her and he/she placed his/her signature before me.
——————,
Signature of the Head of Department or
any Authorized Officer.
Full Name of the Attestor :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :——————.
01-657
PRINTED AT THE DEPATMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA