

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2321$52 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023'03'02
No. 2321/52  -  THURSDAY,  MARCH 02,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT, No. 15 of 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
WKH,QVWLWXWHKDVDGRSWHGWKH6UL/DQND$FFRXQWLQJ6WDQGDUGV&KDQJHVH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJ
on or after 01st-DQXDU\SXEOLVKHGKHUHZLWKIRUWKHSXUSRVHRIWKH6UL/DQND$FFRXQWLQJDQG$XGLWLQJ6WDQGDUGV$FW
1RRI7KLV6WDQGDUGVKDOOEHH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHUst January 2021.
By Order of the Council, 
 R.S. $ඇඈආൺ3උංඒൺൽൺඋඌඁൺඇං,
  Secretary. 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
&RORPER
02
nd March, 2023.
N.B.— 6LQKDODDQG7DPLOYHUVLRQVRIWKLV*D]HWWH([WUDRUGLQDU\DUHSXEOLVKHGVHSDUDWHO\
$3*


<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING STANDARDS CHANGES WITH EFFECT FROM 01 ST 
JANUARY 2021 
CONTENTS 
[1] The Conceptual Framewo rk for Financial Reporting 
[2] SLFRS 1  - First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Stan dards (SLFRSs) 
[3] SLFRS 2  - Share-based Payment 
[4] SLFRS 3  - Business Combinations 
[5] SLFRS 4 - Insurance Contracts 
[6] SLFRS 5  - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinue d Operations 
[7] SLFRS 6  - Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resour ces  
[8] SLFRS 7  - Financial Instruments: Disclosure  
[9] SLFRS 8  - Operating Segments 
[10] SLFRS 9  - Financial Instruments  
[11] SLFRS 10 - Consolidated Financial Statements 
[12] SLFRS 11 - Joint Arrangements 
[13] SLFRS 12 - Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
[14] SLFRS 13 - Fair Value Measurement 
[15] SLFRS 14 - Regulatory Deferral Accounts 
[16] SLFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
[17] SLFRS 16 - Leases 
[18] LKAS 1  - Presentation of Financial Statements 
[19] LKAS 2  - Inventories 
[20] LKAS 7  - Statement of Cash Flows 
[21] LKAS 8  - Accounting Policies , Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
[22] LKAS 10  - Events afte r the Reporting Period 
[23] LKAS 11 - Construction Contracts 
[24] LKAS 12  - Income Taxes 
[25] LKAS 16  - Property, Plant & Equipment 
[26] LKAS 17  - Leases 
[27] LKAS 18  - Revenue 
[28] LKAS 19  - Employee Benefits 
[29] LKAS 20  - Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure  of Government Assistance 
[30] LKAS 21  - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates 
[31] LKAS 23  - Borrowing Costs 
[32] LKAS 24  - Related Party Disclosures 
[33] LKAS 26  - Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans 
[34] LKAS 27  - Separate Financial Statements 
[35] LKAS 28  - Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
[36] LKAS 29  - Financial Report ing in Hyperinflationary Economies 
[37] LKAS 32  - Financial Instruments: Presentation 
[38] LKAS 33  - Ea rnings per Share 
[39] LKAS 34  - Interim Financial Reporting 
[40] LKAS 36  - Impairment of Assets 
[41] LKAS 37 - Provisions, Conti ngent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
[42] LKAS 38  - Intangible Assets 
[43] LKAS 39  - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurem ent 
[44] LKAS 40  - Investment Property 
[45] LKAS 41  - Agriculture 
 
 
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting 
2.11 Information is material if omitting it or misstating or obscuring it could reasonably 
be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial 
reports (see paragraph 1.5) make on the basis of those reports,  which provide 
financial information about a specific reporting entity. In oth er words, materiality is 
an entity-specific aspect of relevance based on the nature or magnitude, or both, of 
the items to which the information relates in  the context of an individual entity’s 
financial report. Consequently, the Council cannot specify a un iform quantitative 
threshold for materiality or predetermine what could be materia l in a particular 
situation. 
Appendix  material  information 
Information is material if omitting, misstating, or obscuring i t could reasonably be 
expected to influence decisions that the primary users of gener al purpose financial 
reports make on the basis of those reports, which provide financial information about 
a specific reporting entity.  
SLFRS 1 - First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) 
39AG  [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore 
not included in this edition.] 
D7 The elections in paragraphs D5 and D6 are also available for:  
(a) investment property, if an entity elects to use the cost model  in LKAS 40 
Investment Property; 
(aa) right-of-use assets (SLFRS 16 Leases); and 
(b) intangible assets that meet: 
D13A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore 
not included in this edition.] 
SLFRS 2 - Share-based Payment 
No changes 
SLFRS 3 Business Combinations 
21A–21C  [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore 
not included in this edition.] 
23A  [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.] 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
31A  [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.] 
58  Some changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that  the acquirer 
recognises after the acquisition date may be the result of addi tional information that 
the acquirer obtained after that date about facts and circumstances that existed at the 
acquisition date. Such changes are measurement period adjustmen ts in accordance 
with paragraphs 45–49. However, changes resulting from events after the acquisition 
date, such as meeting an earnings target, reaching a specified share price or reaching 
a milestone on a research and development project, are not meas urement period 
adjustments. The acquirer shall account for changes in the fair  value of contingent 
consideration that are not measurement period adjustments as fo llows:(b)Other 
contingent consideration that: 
(i) is within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting 
date and changes in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance 
with SLFRS 9.  
64Q [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.] 
Appendix A Defined terms 
Contingent Consideration  
Usually, an obligation of the  acquirer to transfer additional assets or equity 
interests to the former owners of an acquiree as part of the exchange for control of 
the acquiree if specified future events occur or conditions are  met. 
However, contingent consideration also may give the acquirer the right to the return 
of previously transferred consideration if specified conditions are met. 
B8   Elements of a business 
Although businesses usually have outputs, outputs are not requi red for an integrated 
set of activities and assets to qualify as a business. To be capable of being conducted 
and managed for the purpose identified in the definition of a b usiness, an integrated 
set of activities and assets requires two essential elements —inputs and processes 
applied to those inputs. A business need not include all of the inputs or processes that 
the seller used in operating that business. However, to be cons idered a business, an 
integrated set of activities and assets must include, at a mini mum, an input and a 
substantive process that together significantly contribute to t he ability to create 
output. Paragraphs B12 –B 1 2 D  s p e c i f y  h o w  t o  a s s e s s  w h e t h e r  a  p r o c e s s  i s  
substantive. 
SLFRS 4 - Insurance Contracts 
20A SLFRS 9 addresses the accounting for financial instruments and is effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. However, f or an insurer 
that meets the criteria in paragraph 20B, this SLFRS provides a  t e m p o r a r y  
exemption that permits, but does not require, the insurer to ap ply LKAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement  rather than SLFRS 9 for 
annual periods beginning before 1 January 2023. An insurer that  applies the 
temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 shall: 
….. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
20J If an entity no longer qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 as a result 
of a reassessment (see paragraph 20G(a)), then the entity is pe rmitted to continue to 
apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 only until the end of the annual period 
that began immediately after that reassessment. Nevertheless, t he entity must apply 
SLFRS 9 for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023. For example, if an 
entity determines that it no longer qualifies for the temporary  e x e m p t i o n  f r o m  
SLFRS 9 applying paragraph 20G(a) on 31 December 2018 (the end of its annual 
period), then the entity is permitted to continue to apply the temporary exemption 
from SLFRS 9 only until 31 December 2019. 
20O Paragraphs 35–36 of LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures require 
an entity to apply uniform accounting policies when using the e quity method. 
Nevertheless, for annual periods beginning before 1 January 202 3, an entity is 
permitted, but not required, to retain the relevant accounting policies applied by the 
associate or joint venture as follows: 
20R Changes in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows as a result of 
interest rate benchmark reform 
An insurer applying the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 shall apply the 
requirements in paragraphs  5.4.6–5.4.9 of SLFRS 9 to a financial asset or financial 
liability if, and only if, the basis for determining the contra ctual cash flows of that 
financial asset or financial liability changes as a result of i nterest rate benchmark 
reform. For this purpose , the term ‘interest rate benchmark reform’ refers to the 
market-wide reform of an interest rate benchmark as described in paragraph 102B of 
LKAS 39. 
20S For the purpose of applying paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.9 of the amendments to SLFRS 9, 
the references to paragraph B5.4.5 of SLFRS 9 shall be read as referring to paragraph 
AG7 of LKAS 39. References to paragraphs 5.4.3 and B5.4.6 of SL FRS 9 shall be 
read as referring to paragraph AG8 of LKAS 39. 
50 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2 , which amended SLFRS 9 , LKAS 39, 
S L F R S  7 ,  S L F R S  4  a n d  S L F R S  1 6 ,  i s s u e d  i n  December 2020 , added paragraphs 
20R–20S and paragraph 51. An entity shall apply these amendments fo r annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021. Earlier applicati on is permitted. If an 
entity applies these amendments for an earlier period, it shall  disclose that fact. An 
entity shall apply these amendments retrospectively in accordan ce with LKAS 8, 
except as specified in paragraph 51. 
51 An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect t he application of these 
amendments. The entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without 
the use of hindsight. If an entity does not restate prior perio ds, the entity shall 
recognise any difference between the previous carrying amount a nd the carrying 
amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial 
application of these amendments in the opening retained earning s (or other 
component of equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the 
date of initial application of these amendments. 
 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
SLFRS 5 - Non̻̻current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 
33 (b) an analysis of the single amount in (a) into: 
(i) the revenue, expenses and pre ̻tax profit or loss of discontinued operations; 
(ii) the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of LKAS 12. 
(iii) the gain or loss recognised on the measurement to fair value l ess costs to sell or 
on the disposal of the assets or disposal group(s) constituting the disco ntinued 
operation; and 
(iv) the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of LKAS 12. 
SLFRS 6 - Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral  Resources 
No changes 
SLFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosures 
24H Uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform 
For hedging relationships to which an entity applies the except ions set out 
in paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.12 of SLFRS 9 or paragraphs 102D –102N of LKAS 39, an 
entity shall disclose: 
(a) the significant interest rate benchmarks to which the entity’s hedging 
relationships are exposed; 
(b) the extent of the risk exposure the entity manages that is directly affected by 
the interest rate benchmark reform; 
(c) how the entity is managing the process to transition to alternative benchmark 
rates; 
(d) a description of significant assumptions or judgements the ent ity made in 
applying these paragraphs (for example, assumptions or judgements about 
when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer 
present with respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate 
benchmark-based cash flows); and 
(e) the nominal amount of the hedging instruments in those hedging  
relationships. 
24I Additional disclosures related to interest rate benchmark reform 
To enable users of financial statements to understand the effec t of interest rate 
benchmark reform on an entity’s financial instruments and risk management strategy, 
an entity shall disclose information about: 
(a) the nature and extent of risks to which the entity is exposed a rising from 
financial instruments subject to interest rate benchmark reform , and how the 
entity manages these risks; and 
(b) the entity’s progress in completing the transition to alternative benchmark rates, 
and how the entity is managing the transition. 
24J To meet the objectives in paragraph 24I, an entity shall disclose: 
(a) how the entity is managing the transition to alternative benchm ark rates, its 
progress at the reporting date and the risks to which it is exposed arising from 
financial instruments because of the transition; 
(b) disaggregated by significant interest rate benchmark subject to  interest rate 
benchmark reform, quantitative information about financial inst ruments that 
have ye t to transition to an alternative benchmark rate as at the end of the 
reporting period, showing separately: 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
(i) non-derivative financial assets; 
(ii) non-derivative financial liabilities; and 
(iii) derivatives; and 
(c) if the risks identified in paragraph 24J(a) have resulted in changes to an entity’s 
risk management strategy (see paragraph 22A), a description of these changes. 
44EE Interest Rate Benchmark Reform , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 and SLFRS 
7, issued in December 2020, added  paragraphs 24H and 44FF. An entity shall apply 
these amendments when it applies the amendments to SLFRS 9 or LKAS 39. 
44FF In the reporting period in which an entity first applies  Interest Rate Benchmark 
Reform, issued in December 2020, an entity is not required to present the quantitative 
information required by paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors. 
44GG Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2 , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, 
SLFRS 7, SLFRS 4 and SLFRS 16, issued in December 2020, added paragraphs 24I–
24J and 44HH. An entity shall apply these amendments when it ap plies the 
amendments to SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, SLFRS 4 or SLFRS 16. 
44HH In the reporting period in which an entity first applies Interest Rate Benchmark 
Reform—Phase 2 , an entity is not required to disclose the information that wo uld 
otherwise be required by paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8. 
SLFRS 8 - Operating Segments 
No changes 
SLFRS 9 – Financial Instruments 
5.4.5 Changes in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows as a result of 
interest rate benchmark reform 
An entity shall apply paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.9 to a financial asset or financial liability 
if, and only if, the basis for determining the contractual cash  flows of that financial 
asset or financial liability changes as a result of interest ra te benchmark reform. For 
this purpose, the term ‘interest rate benchmark reform’ refers to the market -wide 
reform of an interest rate benchmark as described in paragraph 6.8.2. 
5.4.6 The basis for determining the contractual cash flows of a finan cial asset or financial 
liability can change: 
(a) by amending the contractual terms specified at the initial reco gnition of the 
financial instrument (for example, the contractual terms are amended to replace 
the referenced interest rate benchmark with an alternative benchmark rate); 
(b) in a way that was not considered by —or contemplated in—the contractual terms 
at the initial recognition of the financial instrument, without  amending the 
contractual terms (for example, the method for calculating the interest rate 
benchmark is altered without amending the contractual terms); and/or 
(c) because of the activation of an existing contractual term (for example, an 
existing fallback clause is triggered). 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
5.4.7 As a practical expedient, an entity shall apply paragraph B5.4. 5 to account for a 
change in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows of a financial asset or 
financial liability that is required by interest rate benchmark  reform. This practical 
expedient applies only to such changes and only to the extent t he change is required 
by interest rate benchmark reform (see also paragraph 5.4.9). F or this purpose, a 
change in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows is required by interest 
rate benchmark reform if, and only if, both these conditions are met:  
(a) the change is necessary as a direct consequence of interest rat e benchmark 
reform; and 
(b) the new basis for determining the contractual cash flows is eco nomically 
equivalent to the previous basis (ie the basis immediately preceding the change). 
5.4.8 Examples of changes that give rise to a new basis for determini ng the contractual 
cash flows that is economically equivalent to the previous basi s (ie  the basis 
immediately preceding the change) are: 
(a) the replacement of an existing interest rate benchmark used to determine the 
contractual cash flows of a financial asset or financial liability with an alternative 
benchmark rate —or the implementation o f such a reform of an interest rate 
benchmark by altering the method used to calculate the interest  rate 
benchmark—with the addition of a fixed spread necessary to compensate for the 
basis difference between the existing interest rate benchmark and the alternative 
benchmark rate; 
(b) changes to the reset period, reset dates or the number of days between coupon 
payment dates in order to implement the reform of an interest r ate benchmark; 
and 
(c) the addition of a fallback provision to the contractual terms of a financial asset 
or financial liability to enable any change described in (a) an d (b) above to be 
implemented. 
5.4.9 If changes are made to a financial asset or financial liability in addition to changes to 
the basis for determining the contractual cash flows required b y interest rate 
benchmark reform, an entity shall first apply the practical exp edient in paragraph 
5.4.7 to the changes required by interest rate benchmark reform. The entity shall then 
apply the applicable requirements in this Standard to any additional changes to which 
the practical expedient does not apply. If the additional change does not result in the 
derecognition of the financial asset or financial liability, th e entity shall apply 
paragraph 5.4.3 or paragraph B5.4.6, as applicable, to account for that additional 
change. If the additional change results in the derecognition o f the financial asset or 
financial liability, the entity shall apply the derecognition requirements. 
6.8 
6.8.1 
Temporary exceptions from applying specific hedge accounting requirements 
An entity shall apply  paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.12 and paragraphs 7.1.8 and 7.2.26(d) to 
all hedging relationships directly affected by interest rate be nchmark reform. These 
paragraphs apply only to such hedging relationships. A hedging relationship is 
directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform only if the  reform gives rise to 
uncertainties about: 
(a) the interest rate benchmark (contractually or non- contractually specified) 
designated as a hedged risk; and/or 
(b) the timing or the amount of interest rate benchmark- based cash flows of the 
hedged item or of the hedging instrument. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
6.8.2  For the purpose of applying  paragraphs 6.8.4 –6.8.12, the term ‘interest rate 
benchmark reform’ refers to the market -wide reform of an int erest rate benchmark, 
including the replacement of an interest rate benchmark with an  alternative 
benchmark rate such as that resulting from the recommendations set out in the 
Financial Stability Board’s July 2014 report ‘Reforming Major I nterest Rate 
Benchmarks’.1 
  1 The report, 'Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks', is av ailable at http://www.fsb.org/wp-content/uploads/r_140722.pdf 
6.8.3  Paragraphs 6.8.4 –6.8.12 provide exceptions only to the requirements specified in 
these paragraphs. An entity shall continue to apply all other h edge accounting 
requirements to hedging relationships directly affected by inte rest rate benchmark 
reform. 
6.8.4 Highly probable requirement for cash flow hedges 
For the purpose of determining whether a forecast transaction ( or a component 
thereof) is highly probable as required by paragraph 6.3.3, an entity shall assume that 
the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged cash flows (con tractually or non-
contractually specified) are based is not altered as a result of interest rate benchmark 
reform. 
6.8.5 Reclassifying the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve 
For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 6.5.12 in order to determine 
whether the hedged future cash flows are expected to occur, an entity shall assume 
that the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged cash flows  (contractually or 
non-contractually specified) are based is not altered as a result o f interest rate 
benchmark reform. 
6.8.6 Assessing the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument 
For the purpose of applying the requirements in paragraphs 6.4. 1(c)(i) and B6.4.4 –
B6.4.6, an entity shall assume that the interest rate benchmark  on which the hedged 
cash flows and/or the hedged risk (contractually or non -contractually specified) are 
based, or the interest rate benchmark on which the cash flows o f the hedging 
instrument are based, is not altered as a result of interest rate benchmark reform. 
6.8.7 Designating a component of an item as a hedged item 
Unless paragraph 6.8.8 applies, for a hedge of a non- contractually specified 
benchmark component of interest rate risk, an entity shall appl y the requirement 
in paragraphs 6.3.7(a) and B6.3.8 —that the risk component shall be separately 
identifiable—only at the inception of the hedging relationship. 
6.8.8 When an entity, consistent with its hedge documentation, freque ntly resets (ie 
discontinues and restarts) a hedging relationship because both the hedging instrument 
and the hedged item frequently change (ie the entity uses a dynamic process in which 
both the hedged items and the hedging instruments used to manage that exposure do 
not remain the same for long), the entity sha ll apply the requirement in paragraphs 
6.3.7(a) and B6.3.8—that the risk component is separately identifiable —only when 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
it initially designates a hedged item in that hedging relations hip. A hedged item that 
has been assessed at the time of its initial designation in the  hedging relationship, 
whether it was at the time of the hedge inception or subsequent ly, is not reassessed 
at any subsequent redesignation in the same hedging relationship. 
6.8.9 End of application 
An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 6.8.4 to a hedged item at the 
earlier of: 
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark refor m is no longer 
present with respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-
based cash flows of the hedged item; and 
(b) when the hedging relationship that the hedged item is part of is discontinued. 
6.8.10 An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 6.8.5 at the earlier of: 
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark refo rm is no longer 
present with respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-
based future cash flows of the hedged item; and 
(b) when the entire amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve with respect 
to that discontinued hedging relationship has been reclassified to profit or loss. 
6.8.11 An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 6.8.6: 
(a) to a hedged item, when the uncertainty arising from interest ra te benchmark 
reform is no longer present with respect to the hedged risk or the timing and the 
amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged item; and 
(b) to a hedging instrument, when the uncertainty arising from inte rest rate 
benchmark reform is no longer present with respect to the timing and the amount 
of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedging instrument.  
If the hedging relationship that the hedged item and the hedging instrument are part 
of is discontinued earlier than the date specified in paragraph  6.8.11(a) or the date 
specified in paragraph 6.8.11(b ), the entity shall prospectivel y cease applying 
paragraph 6.8.6 to that hedging relationship at the date of discontinuation. 
6.8.12 When designating a group of items as the hedged item, or a combination of financial 
instruments as the hedging instrument, an entity shall prospect ively cease 
applying paragraphs 6.8.4 –6.8.6 to an indivi dual item or financial instrument in 
accordance with paragraphs 6.8.9, 6.8.10, or 6.8.11, as relevant, when the uncertainty 
arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no longer presen t with respect to the 
hedged risk and/or the timing and the amount of  the interest rate benchmark- based 
cash flows of that item or financial instrument.   
6.8.13 An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraphs 6.8.7 and 6.8.8 at the earlier 
of: 
(a) when changes required by interest rate benchmark reform are ma de to the non-
contractually specified risk component applying paragraph 6.9.1; or 
(b) when the hedging relationship in which the non- contractually specified risk 
component is designated is discontinued. 
6.9 
6.9.1 
Additional temporary exceptions arising from interest rate benchmark reform 
As and when the requirements in paragraphs 6.8.4–6.8.8 cease to apply to a hedging 
relationship (see paragraphs 6.8.9 –6.8.13), an entity shall amend the formal 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
designation of that hedging relationship as previously document ed to reflect the 
changes required by interest rate benchmark reform, ie the chan ges are consistent 
with the requirements in paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.8. In this context, the hedge 
designation shall be amended only to make one or more of these changes: 
(a) designating an alternative benchmark rate (contractually or no n-contractually 
specified) as a hedged risk; 
(b) amending the description of the hedged item, including the desc ription of the 
designated portion of the cash flows or fair value being hedged; or 
(c) amending the description of the hedging instrument. 
6.9.2 An entity also shall apply the requirement in paragraph 6.9.1(c ) if these three 
conditions are met: 
(a) the entity makes a change required by interest rate benchmark r eform using an 
approach other than changing the basis for determining the contractual cash 
flows of the hedging instrument (as described in paragraph 5.4.6); 
(b) the original hedging instrument is not derecognised; and 
(c) the chosen approach is economically equivalent to changing the  basis for 
determining the contractual cash flows of the original hedging instrument (as 
described in paragraphs 5.4.7 and 5.4.8). 
6.9.3  The requirements in paragraphs 6.8.4 –6.8.8 may cease to apply at different times. 
Therefore, in applying paragraph 6.9.1, an entity may be required to amend the formal 
designation of its hedging relationships at different times, or  may be required to 
amend the formal designation of a hedging relationship more tha n once. When, and 
only when, such a change is made to the  hedge designation, an entity shall apply 
paragraphs 6.9.7–6.9.12 as applicable. An entity also shall apply paragraph 6.5.8 (for 
a fair value hedge) or paragraph 6.5.11 (for a cash flow hedge)  to account for any 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item or the hedging instrument. 
6.9.4  An entity shall amend a hedging relationship as required in par agraph 6.9.1 by the 
end of the reporting period during which a change required by interest rate benchmark 
reform is made to the hedged risk, hedged item or hedging instr ument. For the 
avoidance of doubt, such an amendment to the formal designation  of a hedging 
relationship constitutes neither the discontinuation of the hedging relationship nor the 
designation of a new hedging relationship. 
6.9.5 
 
If changes are made in addition to those changes required by interest rate benchmark 
reform to the financial asset or financial liability designated in a hedging relationship 
(as described in paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.8) or to the designation of the hedging 
relationship (as required by paragraph 6.9.1), an entity shall first apply the applicable 
requirements in this Standard to determine if those additional changes result in the 
discontinuation of hedge accounting. If the additional changes do not result in the 
discontinuation of hedge accounting, an entity shall amend the formal designation of 
the hedging relationship as specified in paragraph 6.9.1. 
6.9.6 Paragraphs 6.9.7 –6.9.13 provide exceptions to the requirements specified in thos e 
paragraphs only. An entity shall apply all other hedge accounting requirements in this 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
Standard, including the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1,  to hedging 
relationships that were directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform. 
6.9.7 Accounting for qualifying hedging relationships 
Cash flow hedges 
For the purpose of applying paragraph 6.5.11, at the point when an entity amends the 
description of a hedged item as required in paragraph 6.9.1(b),  the amount 
accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve shall be deemed to b e based on the 
alternative benchmark rate on which the hedged future cash flows are determined. 
6.9.8 For a discontinued hedging relationship, when the interest rate  benchmark on which 
the hedged future cash flows had been based is changed as requi red by interest rate 
benchmark reform, for the purpose of applying paragraph 6.5.12 in order to determine 
whether the hedged future cash flows are expected to occur, the amount accumulated 
in the cash flow hedge reserve for that hedging relationship sh all be deemed to be 
based on the alternative benchmark rate on which the hedged fut ure cash flows will 
be based. 
6.9.9 Groups of items 
When an entity applies paragraph 6.9.1 to groups of items designated as hedged items 
in a fair value or cash flow hedge, the entity shall allocate t he hedged items to 
subgroups based on the benchmark rate being hedged and designat e the benchmark 
rate as the hedged risk for each subgroup. For example, in a he dging relationship in 
which a group of items is hedged for changes in an interest rat e benchmark subject 
to interest rate benchmark reform, the hedged cash flows or fair value of some items 
in the group could be changed to reference an alternative benchmark rate before other 
items in the group are changed. In this example, in applying pa ragraph 6.9.1, the 
entity would designate the alternative benchmark rate as the he dged risk for that 
relevant subgroup of hedged items. The entity would continue to  designate the 
existing interest rate benchmark as the hedged risk for the oth er subgroup of hedged 
items until the hedged cash flows or fair value of those items are changed to reference 
the alternative benchmark rate or the items expire and are replaced with hedged items 
that reference the alternative benchmark rate. 
6.9.10 An entity shall assess separately whether each subgroup meets t he requirements in 
paragraph 6.6.1 to be an eligible hedged item. If any subgroup fails to meet the 
requirements in paragraph 6.6.1, the entity shall discontinue h edge accounting 
prospectively for the hedging relationship in its entirety. An entity also shall apply 
the requirements in paragraphs 6.5.8 and 6.5.11 to account for ineffectiveness related 
to the hedging relationship in its entirety. 
6.9.11 Designation of risk components 
An alternative benchmark rate designated as a non -contractually specified risk 
component that is not separately identifiable (see paragraphs 6 .3.7(a) and B6.3.8) at 
the date it is designated shall be deemed to have met that requirement at that date, if, 
and only if, the entity reasonably expects the alternative benc hmark rate will be 
separately identifiable within 24 months. The 24 -month period applies to each 
alternative benchmark rate separately and starts from the date the entity designates 
the alternative benchmark rate as a non -contractually specified risk component for 
the first time (ie the 24-month period applies on a rate-by-rate basis). 
 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
6.9.12 If subsequently an entity reasonably expects that the alternati ve benchmark rate will 
not be separately identifiable within 24 months from the date the entity designated it 
as a non -contractually specified risk component for the first time, the entity shall 
cease applying the requirement in paragraph 6.9.11 to that alternative benchmark rate 
and discontinue hedge accounting prospectively from the date of  that reassessment 
for all hedging relationships in which the alternative benchmark rate was designated 
as a non-contractually specified risk component. 
6.9.13 In addition to those hedging relationships specified in paragraph 6.9.1, an entity shall 
apply the requirements in paragraphs 6.9.11 and 6.9.12 to new hedging relationships 
in which an alternative benchmark rate is designated as a non-contractually specified 
risk component (see paragraphs 6.3.7(a) and B6.3.8) when, becau se of interest rate 
benchmark reform, that risk component is not separately identif iable at the date it is 
designated. 
7.1.8 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 and SLFRS 
7, issued in December 2020, added Section 6.8 and amended paragraph 7.2.26. An 
entity shall apply these amendments for annual periods beginnin g on or after 1 
January 2020. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments 
for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
7.1.9 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.] 
7.1.10  Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2 , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, 
S L F R S  7 ,  S L F R S  4  a n d  S L F R S  1 6 ,  i s s u e d  i n  December 2020, added paragraphs 
5.4.5–5.4.9, 6.8.13, Section 6.9 and paragraphs 7.2.43 –7.2.46. An entity shall apply 
these amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Jan uary 2021. Earlier 
application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments  for an earlier period, 
it shall disclose that fact. 
7.2.26 As an exception to prospective  application of the hedge account ing requirements of 
this Standard, an entity: 
(a) shall apply the accounting for the time value of options in acc ordance with 
paragraph 6.5.15 retrospectively if, in accordance with LKAS 39 , only the 
change in an option’s intrinsic value was designated as a hedgi ng instrument in 
a hedging relationship. Th is retrospective applicatio n applies only to those 
hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the earl iest comparative 
period or were designated thereafter. 
(b) may apply the accounting for the forward element of forward con tracts in 
accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 retrospectively if, in accordance with LK AS 
39, only the change in the spot element of a forward contract w as designated as 
a hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. This retrospect ive application 
applies only to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the 
earliest comparative period or were designated thereafter. In addition, if an entity 
elects retrospective application of this accounting, it shall b e applied to all 
hedging relationships that qualify for this election (ie on tra nsition this election 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
is not available on a hedging-relationship-by-hedging-relations hip basis). The 
accounting for foreign currency basis spreads (see paragraph 6. 5.16) may be 
applied retrospectively for those hedging relationships that existed at the 
beginning of the earliest comparative period or were designated thereafter.
(c) shall apply retrospectively the requirement of paragraph 6.5 .6 that there is not
an expiration or termination of the hedging instrument if:
(i) as a consequ ence of laws or regulations, or the introduction of laws or
regulations, the parties to the hedging instrument agree that o ne or more
clearing counterparties replace their original counterparty to become the
new counterparty to each of the parties; and
(ii) other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to  those that
are necessary to effect such a replacement of the counterparty.
(d) shall apply the requirements in Section 6.8 retrospectively.  This retrospective
application applies only to tho se hedging relationships that existed at the
beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first appl ies those
requirements or were designated thereafter, and to the amount a ccumulated in
the cash flow hedge reserve that existed at the beginning of the reporting period
in which an entity first applies those requirements.
7.2.35 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
7.2.36–7.2.42 [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore 
not included in this edition.]
7.2.43 Transition for Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2
An entity shall apply Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2 retrospectively in 
accordance with LKAS 8, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.44–7.2.46.
7.2.44 An entity shall designate a new hedging relationship (for examp le, as described in 
paragraph 6.9.13) only prospectively ( ie an entity is prohibited from designating a 
new hedge accounting relationship in prior periods). However, an entity shall 
reinstate a discontinued hedging relationship if, and only if, these conditions are met: 
(a) the entity had discontinued that hedging relationship solely  d u e  t o  c h a n g e s
required by interest rate benchmark reform and the entity would  not have been
required to discontinue that hedging relationship if these amen dments had been
applied at that time; and
(b) at the beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first applies these
amendments (date of initial application of these amendments), that discontinued
hedging relationship meets the qualifying criteria for hedge ac counting (after
taking into account these amendments).
7.2.45 If, in applying paragraph 7.2.44, an entity reinstates a discon tinued hedging 
relationship, the entity shall read references in paragraphs 6. 9.11 and 6.9.12 to the 
date the alternative benchmark rate is designated as a non-contractually specified risk 
component for the first time as referring to the date of initia l application of these 
amendments (ie the 24 -month period for that alternative benchmark rate designated 
as a non -contractually specified risk component begins from th e date of initial 
application of these amendments).

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    15A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
7.2.46 An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect t he application of these 
amendments. The entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without 
the use of hindsight. If an entity does not restate prior perio ds, the entity shall
recognise any difference between the previous carrying amount a nd the carrying 
amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial 
application of these amendments in the opening retained earning s (or other 
component of equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the 
date of initial application of these amendments.
B3.2.1 Arrangements under which an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash 
flows of a financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows 
to one or more recipients (paragraph 3.2.4(b))
B3.3.6A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
B4.1.4 Example 4
A financial institution holds financial assets to meet liquidity needs in a ‘stress case’ 
scenario (eg, a run on the bank’s deposits). The entity does not anticipate selling these 
assets except in such scenarios.
The entity monitors the credit quality of the financial assets a nd its objective in 
managing the financial assets is to collect the contractual cas h flows. The entity 
evaluates the performance of the assets on the basis of interes t revenue earned and 
credit losses realised.
However, the entity also monitors the fair value of the financial assets from a liquidity 
perspective to ensure that the cash amount that would be realised if the entity needed 
to sell the assets in a stress case scenario would be sufficien t to meet the entity’s 
liquidity needs. Periodically, the entity makes sales that are insignificant in value to 
demonstrate liquidity.
SLFRS 10 - Consolidated Financial Statements
No changes
SLFRS 11 - Joint Arrangements
No changes
SLFRS 12 - Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
No changes
SLFRS 13 - Fair Value Measurement
No changes
SLFRS 14 - Regulatory Deferral Accounts
No changes

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
SLFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers
No changes
SLFRS 16 – Leases
46A As a practical expedient, a lessee may elect not to assess whether a rent concession that 
meets the conditions in paragraph 46B is a lease modification. A lessee that makes this 
election shall account for any change in lease payments resulti ng from the rent 
concession the same way it would account for the change applying this Standard if the 
change were not a lease modification.
46B The practical expedient in paragraph 46A applies only to rent concessions occurring as 
a direct consequence of the covid -19 pandemic and only if all of the following 
conditions are met:
(a)
the change in lease payments results in revised consideration for t he lease that is
substantially the same as, or less than, the consideration for the lease immediately
preceding the change;
(b) any reduction in lease payments affects only payments originally due on or before
30 June 2021 (for example, a rent concession would meet this co ndition if it
results in reduced lease payments on or before 30 June 2021 and  increased lease
payments that extend beyond 30 June 2021); and
(c) there is no substantive change to other terms and conditions of the lease.
60A If a lessee applies the practical expedient in paragraph 46A, the lessee shall disclose:
(a) that it has applied the practical expedient to all rent conc essions that meet the
conditions in paragraph 46B or, if not applied to all such rent  concessions,
information about the nature of the contracts to which it has applied the practical
expedient (see paragraph 2); and
(b) the amount recognised in profit or loss for the reporting period to reflect changes
in lease payments that arise from rent concessions to which the lessee has applied
the practical expedient in paragraph 46A.
104 Temporary exception arising from interest rate benchmark reform
A lessee shall apply paragraphs 105–106 to all lease modifications that change the basis 
for determining future lease payments as a result of interest rate benchmark reform (see 
paragraphs 5.4.6 and 5.4.8 of SLFRS 9). These paragraphs apply only to such lease 
modifications. For this purpose, the term ‘interest rate benchmark reform’ refers to the 
market-wide reform of an interest rate benchmark as described in parag raph 6.8.2 of 
SLFRS 9.
105 As a practical expedient, a lessee shall apply paragraph 42 to account for a lease 
modification required by interest rate benchmark reform. This p ractical expedient 
applies only to such modifications. For this purpose, a lease m odification is required 
by interest rate benchmark reform if, and only if, both of these conditions are met:
(a) the modification is necessary as a direct consequence of int erest rate benchmark
reform; and
(b) the new basis for determining the lease payments is economic ally equivalent to
the previous basis (ie the basis immediately preceding the modification).

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    17A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
106 However, if lease modifications are made in addition to those l ease modifications 
required by interest rate benchmark reform, a lessee shall appl y the applicable 
requirements in this Standard to account for all lease modifica tions made at the same 
time, including those required by interest rate benchmark reform.
C1A Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions, issued in May 2020, added paragraphs 46A, 46B, 
60A, C20A and C20B. A lessee shall apply that amendment for ann ual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 June 2020. Earlier application is permitted, including 
in financial statements not authorised for issue at 28 May 2020. 
C1B Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2 , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, 
SLFRS 7, SLFRS 4 and SLFRS 16, issued in December 2020, added paragraphs 104–
106 and C20C –C20D. An entity shall apply these amendments for annual reporti ng 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021. Earlier applicati on is permitted. If an 
entity applies these amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact.
C20A Covid-19-related rent concessions for lessees
A lessee shall apply Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions (see paragraph C1A) 
retrospectively, recognising the cumulative effect of initially applying that amendment 
as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (o r other component of 
equity, as appropriate) at the beginning of the annual reporting  period in which the 
lessee first applies the amendment.
C20B In the reporting period in which a lessee first applies Covid-19-Related Rent 
Concessions, a lessee is not required to disclose the information required by paragraph 
28(f) of LKAS 8.
C20C Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2
An entity shall apply these amendments retrospectively in accor dance with LKAS 8, 
except as specified in paragraph C20D.
C20D An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect t he application of these 
amendments. The entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without 
the use of hindsight. If an entity does not restate prior periods, the entity shall recognise 
any difference between the previous carrying amount and the car rying amount at the 
beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date  of initial application of 
these amendments in the opening retained earnings (or other com ponent of equity, as 
appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the d ate of initial application 
of these amendments.
LKAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements
23 In the extremely rare circumstances in which management conclud es that compliance 
with a requirement in a SLFRS would be so misleading that it wo uld conflict with the 
objective of financial statements set out in the Conceptual Framework, but the relevant 
regulatory framework prohibits departure from the requirement, the entity shall, to the 
maximum extent possible, reduce the perceived misleading aspect s of compliance by 
disclosing:

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
(a) the title of the SLFRS in question, the nature of the requireme nt, and the reason
why management has concluded that complying with that requireme nt is so
misleading in the circumstances that it conflicts with the obje ctive of financial
statements set out in the Conceptual Framework; and
……… 
72A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
75A [This paragraph refers to amen dments that are not yet effe ctive, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
76A—76B [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore 
not included in this edition.]
139U [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
LKAS 2 - Inventories
No changes
LKAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows
No changes 
LKAS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
No changes 
LKAS 10 - Events after the Reporting Period
23C Definition of Material (Amendments to LKAS 1 and LKAS 8), issued in January 2019, 
amended paragraph 21. An entity shall apply those amendments pr ospectively for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. Earlier ap plication is permitted. 
If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it  shall disclose that fact. 
An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies the amen dments to the 
definition of material in paragraph 7 of LKAS 1 and paragraphs 5 and 6 of LKAS 8.
LKAS 12 – Income Taxes
No changes
LKAS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment
20A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
74A [This paragraph refers to amen dments that are not yet effe ctive, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
80D [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    19A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
81N [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
LKAS 19 – Employee Benefits
No changes
LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance
No changes
LKAS 21 - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
60I [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
60I [Deleted]
LKAS 23 – Borrowing Costs
No changes
LKAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures
No changes
LKAS 26 - Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans
No changes
LKAS 27 - Separate Financial Statements
15 An entity shall apply all applicable SLFRSs when providing disc losures in its 
separate financial statements, including the requirements in paragraphs 16–17.
LKAS 28 - Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
No changes
LKAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
No changes
LKAS 32 - Financial Instruments: Presentation
AG9 A lease typically creates an entitlement of the lessor to receive, and an obligation of the 
lessee to pay, a stream of payments that are substantially the same as blended payments 
of principal and interest under a loan agreement. The lessor accounts for its investment 
in the amount receivable under a finance lease rather than the underlying asset itself 
that is subject to the finance lease. Accordingly, a lessor reg ards a finance lease as a 
financial instrument. Under SLFRS 16, a lessor does not recognise i ts entitlement to 
receive lease payments under an operating lease. The lessor con tinues to account for 
the underlying asset itself rather than any amount receivable i n the future under the 
contract. Accordingly, a lessor does not regard an operating le ase as a financial 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
instrument, except as regards individual payments currently due  and payable by the 
lessee.
AG10 Physical assets (such as inventories, property, plant and equipment), right-of-use assets 
and intangible assets (such as patents and trademarks) are not financial assets. Control 
of such physical assets, right-of-use assets and intangible assets creates an opportunity 
to generate an inflow of cash or another financial asset, but i t does not give rise to a 
present right to receive cash or another financial asset.
LKAS 33 - Earnings per Share
No changes
LKAS 34 - Interim Financial Reporting
No changes
LKAS 36 - Impairment of Assets
No changes
LKAS 37 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
68A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
94A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
105 [This paragraph refers to amendments that ar e not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
LKAS 38 – Intangible Assets
LKAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
102A Temporary exceptions from applying specific hedge accounting requirements
An entity shall apply paragraphs 102D–102N and 108Gto all hedging relationships 
directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform. These para graphs apply only to 
such hedging relationships. A hedging relationship is directly affected by interest rate 
benchmark reform only if the reform gives rise to uncertainties about:
(a) the interest rate benchmark (contractually or non- contractually specified)
designated as a hedged risk; and/or
(b) the timing or the amount of interest rate benchmark- based cash flows of
the hedged item or of the hedging instrument.
102B For the purpose of applying paragraphs 102D –102N, the term ‘interest rate 
benchmark reform’ refers to the market -wide reform of an interest rate benchmark, 
including the replacement of an interest rate benchmark with an  alternative 
benchmark rate such as that resulting from the recommendations set out in the 
Financial Stability Board’s July 2014 report ‘Reforming Major I nterest Rate 
Benchmarks’.1
1 The report, 'Reforming Major Interest Rate Benchmarks', is available at http://www.fsb.org/wp-content/uploads/r_140722.pdf.
102C Paragraphs 102D –102N provide exceptions only to the requirements specified in 
these paragraphs. An entity shall continue to apply all other h edge accounting 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    21A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
requirements to hedging relationships directly affected by inte rest rate benchmark 
reform.
102D Highly probable requirement for cash flow hedges
For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 88(c) that a forecast 
transaction must be highly probable, an entity shall assume that  the interest rate 
benchmark on which the hedged cash flows (con tractually or non- contractually 
specified) are based is not altered as a result of interest rate benchmark reform.
102E Reclassifying the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive 
income
For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 101(c) in order to 
determine whether the forecast tr ansaction is no longer expecte d to occur, an entity 
shall assume that the interest rate benchmark on which the hedg ed cash flows 
(contractually or non -contractually specified) are based is not altere d as a result of 
interest rate benchmark reform.
102F Effectiveness assessment
For the purpose of applying the requirements in paragraphs 88(b) andAG105(a), an 
entity shall assume that the interest rate benchmark on which t he hedged cash flows 
and/or the hedged risk (contractually or non-contractually specified) are based, or the 
interest rate benchmark on which the cash flows of thehedging instrument are based, 
is not altered as a result of interest rate benchmark reform.
102G For the purpose of applying the requirement in paragraph 88(e), an entity is not 
required to discontinue a hedging relationship because the actual results of the hedge 
do not meet the requirements in paragraph AG105(b). For the avoidance of doubt, an 
entity shall apply the o ther conditions in paragraph 88, including the prospective 
assessment in paragraph 88(b), to assess whether the hedging relationship must be 
discontinued.
102H Designating financial items as hedged items
Unless paragraph 102I applies, for a hedge of a non- contractually specified 
benchmark portion of interest rate risk, an entity shall apply the requirement 
in paragraphs 81 and AG99F—that the designated portion shall be separately 
identifiable—only at the inception of the hedging relationship.
102I When an entity, consistent with its hedge documentation, freque ntly resets ( ie
discontinues and restarts) a hedging relationship because both the hedging 
instrument and the hedged item frequently change (ie the entity uses a dynamic 
process in which both the hedged items and the hedging instruments used to manage 
that exposure do not remain the same for long), the entity shall apply the requirement 
in paragraphs 81 and AG99F —that the designated portion is separately 
identifiable—only when it initially designates a hedged item in that hedging 
relationship. A hedged item that has been assessed at the time of its initial designation 
in the hedging relationship, whether it was at the time of the hedge inception or 
subsequently, is not reassessed at any subsequent redesignation  in the same hedging 
relationship. 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
102J End of application
An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102D to a hedged item at the 
earlier of:
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark re form is no longer
present with respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-
based cash flows of the hedged item; and
(b) when the hedging relationship that the hedged item is part of is discontinued.
102K An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102E at the earlier of:
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark re form is no longer
present with respect to the timing and the amount of the interest rate benchmark-
based future cash flows of the hedged item; and
(b) when the entire cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive
income with respect to that discontinued hedging relationship h as been
reclassified to profit or loss.
102L An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102F:
(a) to a hedged item, when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark
reform is no longer present with respect to the hedged risk or the timing and the
amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged item; and
(b) to a hedging instrument, when the unce rtainty arising from interest rate
benchmark reform is no longer present with respect to the timing and the amount
of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedging instrument.
If the hedging relationship that the hedged item and the hedging instrument are part 
of is discontinued earlier t han the date specified in paragraph 102L(a) or the date 
specified in paragraph 102L(b), the entity shall prospectively c ease applying 
paragraph 102F to that hedging relationship at the date of discontinuation.
102M An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraph 102G to a hedging 
relationship at the earlier of:
(a) when the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark re form is no longer
present with respect to the hedged risk and the timing and the amount of the
interest rate benchmark-based cash flows of the hedged item and of the hedging
instrument; and
(b) when the hedging relationship to which the exception is applied is discontinued.
102N When designating a group of items as the hedged item, or a combination of financial 
instruments as the hedging instrument, an entity shall prospecti vely cease 
applying paragraphs 102D –102G to an individual item or financial instrument in 
accordance with paragraphs 102J, 102K, 102L, or102M, as relevant, when the 
uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform is no l onger present with 
respect to the hedged risk and/or the timing and the amount of the interest rate 
benchmark-based cash flows of that item or financial instrument.
102O An entity shall prospectively cease applying paragraphs 102H and 102I at the earlier 
of:
(a) when changes required by interest rate benchmark reform are made to the non-
contractually specified risk portion applying paragraph 102P; or
(b) when the hedging relationship in which the non- contractually specified risk
portion is designated is discontinued.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
102P Additional temporary exceptions arising from interest rate benchmark reform 
Hedge accounting 
As and when the requirements in paragraphs 102D–102I cease to apply to a hedging 
relationship (see paragraphs 102J –102O), an entity shall amend the formal 
designation of that hedging relationship as previously document ed to reflect the 
changes required by interest rate benchmark reform, ie the chan ges are consistent 
with the requ irements in paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.8 of SLFRS 9. In this context, the 
hedge designation shall be amended only to make one or more of these changes: 
(a) designating an alternative benchmark rate (contractually or no n-contractually 
specified) as a hedged risk; 
(b) amending the description of the hedged item, including the desc ription of the 
designated portion of the cash flows or fair value being hedged; 
(c) amending the description of the hedging instrument; or 
(d) amending the description of how  the entity will assess hedge effectiveness. 
102Q An entity also shall apply the requirement in  paragraph 102P(c) i f  t h e s e  t h r e e  
conditions are met: 
(a) the entity makes a change required by interest rate benchmark r eform using an 
approach other than changing the basis for determining the contractual cash 
flows of the hedging instrument (as described in paragraph 5.4.6 of SLFRS 9); 
(b) the original hedging instrument is not derecognised; and 
(c) the chosen approach is economically equivalent to changing the basis for 
determining the contractual cash flows of the original hedging instrument (as 
described in paragraphs 5.4.7 and 5.4.8 of SLFRS 9). 
102R The requirements in paragraphs 102D –102I may cease to apply at different times. 
Therefore, applying paragraph 102P, an entity may be required t o amend the formal 
designation of its hedging relationships at different times, or  may be required to 
amend the formal designation of a hedging relationship more tha n once. When, and 
only when, such a change is made to the hedge designation, an e ntity shall apply 
paragraphs 102V–102Z2 as applicable. An entity also shall apply paragraph 89 (f or 
a fair value hedge) or paragraph 96 (for a cash flow hedge) to account for any changes 
in the fair value of the hedged item or the hedging instrument. 
102S An entity shall amend a hedging relationship as required in par agraph 102P by the 
end of the reporting period during which a change required by interest rate benchmark 
reform is made to the hedged risk, hedged item or hedging instr ument. For the 
avoidance of doubt, such an amendment to the formal designation  of a hedging 
relationship constitutes neither the discontinuation of the hedging relationship nor the 
designation of a new hedging relationship. 
102T  If changes are made in addition to those changes required by interest rate benchmark 
reform to the financial asset or financial liability designated in a hedging relationship 
(as described in paragraphs 5.4.6 –5.4.8 of SLFRS 9) or to the designation of the 
hedging relationship (as required by paragraph 102P), an entity  shall first apply the 
applicable requirements in this Standard to determine if those additional changes 
result in the discontinuation of hedge accounting. If the addit ional changes do not 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
result in the discontinuation of hedge accounting, an entity sh all amend the formal 
designation of the hedging relationship as specified in paragraph 102P. 
102U Paragraphs 102V–102Z3 provide exceptions to the requirements specified in those  
paragraphs only. An entity shall apply all other hedge accounting requirements in this 
Standard, including the qualifying criteria in paragraph 88, to  hedging relationships 
that were directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform. 
102V Accounting for qualifying hedging relationships  
Retrospective effectiveness assessment 
For the purpose of assessing the retrospective effectiveness of a hedging relationship 
on a cumulative basis applying paragraph 88(e) and only for thi s purpose, an entity 
may elect to reset to zero the cumulative fair value changes of  the hedged item and 
hedging instrument when ceasing to apply paragraph 102G as required by paragraph 
102M. This election is made separately for each hedging relatio nship (ie on an 
individual hedging relationship basis). 
102W Cash flow hedges 
For the purpose of applying paragraph 97, at the point when an entity amends the 
description of a hedged item as required in paragraph 102P(b), the cumulative gain 
or loss in other comprehensive income shall be deemed to be based on the alternative 
benchmark rate on which the hedged future cash flows are determined. 
102X For a discontinued hedging relationship, when the interest rate  benchmark on which 
the hedged future cash flows had been based is changed as requi red by interest rate 
benchmark reform, for the purpose of applying paragraph 101(c) in order to 
determine whether the hedged future cash flows are expected to occur, the amount 
accumulated in other comprehensive income for that hedging rela tionship shall be 
deemed to be based on the alternative benchmark rate on which t he hedged future 
cash flows will be based. 
102Y Groups of items 
When an entity applies paragraph 102 to groups of items designated as hedged items 
in a fair value or cash flow hedge, the entity shall allocate t he hedged items to 
subgroups based on the benchmark rate being hedged and designat e the benchmark 
rate as the hedged risk for each subgroup. For example, in a he dging relationship in 
which a group of items is hedged for changes in an interest rat e benchmark subject 
to interest rate benchmark reform, the hedged cash flows or fair value of some items 
in the group could be changed to reference an alternative benchmark rate before other 
items in the group are changed. In this example, in applying pa ragraph 102P, the 
entity would designate the alternative benchmark rate as the he dged risk for that 
relevant subgroup of hedged items. The entity would continue to  designate the 
existing interest rate benchmark as the hedged risk for the oth er subgroup of hedged 
items until the hedged cash flows or fair value of those items are changed to reference 
the alternative benchmark rate or the items expire and are replaced with hedged items 
that reference the alternative benchmark rate. 
102Z An entity shall assess separately whether each subgroup meets t he requirements in 
paragraphs 78 and 83 to be an eligible hedged item. If any subgroup fails to meet the 
requirements in paragraphs 78 and 83, the entity shall disconti nue hedge accounting 
prospectively for the hedging relationship in its entirety. An entity also shall apply 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iu dcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    25A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
 
the requirements in paragraphs 89 or 96 to account for ineffect iveness related to the 
hedging relationship in its entirety. 
102Z1 Designating financial items as hedged items 
An alternative benchmark rate designated as a non -contractually specified risk 
portion that is not separately identifiable (see paragraphs 81 and AG99F) at the date 
it is designated shall be deemed to have met that requirement at that date, if, and only 
if, the entity reasonably expects the alternative benchmark rat e will be separately 
identifiable within 24 months. The 24 -month period applies to each alternative 
benchmark rate separately and starts from the date the entity d esignates the 
alternative benchmark rate as a non- contractually specified risk portion for the first 
time (ie the 24-month period applies on a rate-by-rate basis). 
102Z2 If subsequently an entity reasonably expects that the alternati ve benchmark rate will 
not be separately identifiable within 24 months from the date the entity designated it 
as a non-contractually specified risk portion for the first time, the en tity shall cease 
applying the requirement in paragraph 102Z1 to that alternative  benchmark rate and 
discontinue hedge accounting prospectively from the date of that reassessment for all 
hedging relationships in which the alternative benchmark rate w as designated as a 
non-contractually specified risk portion. 
102Z3 In addition to those hedging relationships specified in paragraph 102P, an entity shall 
apply the requirements in paragraphs 102Z1 and 102Z2 to new hedging relationships 
in which an alternative benchmark rate is designated as a non-contractually specified 
risk portion (see paragraphs 81 and AG99F) when, because of interest rate benchmark 
reform, that risk portion is not separately identifiable at the date it is designated. 
108G Interest Rate Benchmark Reform , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39 and SLFRS 
7, issued in December 2020, added paragraphs 102A –102N. An ent ity shall apply 
these amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Jan uary 2020. Earlier 
application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments  for an earlier period, 
it shall disclose that fact. An entity shall apply these amendm ents retrospectively to 
those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of th e reporting period in 
which an entity first applies these amendments or were designat ed thereafter, and to 
the gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income that existed at the 
beginning of the reporting period in which an entity first applies these amendments. 
108H Interest Rate Benchmark Reform —Phase 2 , which amended SLFRS 9, LKAS 39, 
S L F R S  7 ,  S L F R S  4  a n d  S L F R S  1 6 ,  i s s u e d  i n  December 2020, added paragraphs 
102O–102Z3 and 108I–108K, and amended paragraph 102M. An entity shall apply 
these amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Jan uary 2021. Earlier 
application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments  for an earlier period, 
it shall disclose that fact. An entity shall apply these amendm ents retrospectively in 
accordance with LKAS 8, except as specified in paragraphs 108I–108K. 
108I An entity shall designate a new hedging relationship (for examp le, as described in 
paragraph 102Z3) only prospectively (ie an entity is prohibited  from designating a 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
new hedge accounting relationship in prior periods). However, a n entity shall 
reinstate a discontinued hedging relationship if, and only if, these conditions are met:
(a) the entity had discontinued that hedging relationship solely due to changes
required by interest rate benchmark reform and the entity would  not have been
required to discontinue that hedging relationship if these amen dments had been
applied at that time; and
(b) at the beginning of the re porting period in which an entity first applies these
amendments (date of initial application of these amendments), t hat discontinued
hedging relationship meets the qualifying criteria for hedge ac counting (after
taking into account these amendments).
108J If, in applying paragraph 108I, an entity reinstates a disconti nued hedging 
relationship, the entity shall read references in paragraphs 10 2Z1 and 102Z2 to the 
date the alternative benchmark rate is designated as a non-contractually specified risk 
portion for the first time as referring to the date of initial application of these 
amendments (ie the 24 -month period for that alternative benchmark rate designated 
as a non-contractually specified risk portion begins from the date of initial application 
of these amendments).
108K An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect t he application of these 
amendments. The entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without 
the use of hindsight. If an entity does not restate prior perio ds, the entity shall
recognise any difference between the previous carrying amount a nd the carrying 
amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial 
application of these amendments in the opening retained earning s (or other 
component of equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the 
date of initial application of these amendments.
LKAS 40 – Investment Property
20 An owned investment property shall be measured initially at its cost. 
Transaction costs shall be included in the initial measurement.
60 For a transfer from investment property carried at fair value to owner̻occupied 
property or inventories, the property’s deemed cost for subsequent accounting 
in accordance with LKAS 16, SLFRS 16 or LKAS2 shall be its fair value at the 
date of change in use.
67 The disposal of an investment property may be achieved by sale or by entering into 
a finance lease. The date of disposa l for investment property that is sold is the date 
the recipient obtains control of the investment property in acc ordance with the 
requirements for determining when a performance obligation is s atisfied in 
SLFRS 15. SLFRS 16 applies to a disposal effected by entering into a finance lease 
and to a sale and leaseback.
LKAS 41 - Agriculture
2 This Standard does not apply to: 
……………….
(e) right-of-use assets arising from a lease of land related to agricultural activity (see
SLFRS 16Leases).

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    27A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
64 SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that 
amendment when it applies SLFRS 16.
65 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
LKAS 41 - Agriculture
2 This Standard does not apply to:
……………….
(e) right-of-use assets arising from a lease of land related to agricultural  activity (see
SLFRS 16 Leases).
64 SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that 
amendment when it applies SLFRS 16.
65 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not 
included in this edition.]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
(2*