

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2311$40 - 2022 foieïn¾ ui 22 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'12'22
No. 2311/40 -  Thursday,   december  22 ,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 38406 - 07 (12/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.b. 5/2007 (i)
ELECTRONIC   TRANSACTIONS   ACT,  No. 19  Of 2006
reGuLaTIONs made by the minister of Technology under section 24 read with subsection (2) of section 8 of the electronic 
Transactions act, No.19 of 2006 read with article 44(3) of the constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka.
Ranil Wickremesinghe,
  minister of Technology.
colombo,
20th december, 2022.
Regulations
  
1. These regulations may be cited as the “ electronic Transactions (e-Grama Niladhari Information system) 
regulations No. 1 of 2022.”
2. (1) These regulations shall authorize the secretary to the ministry of the minister assigned the subject or function 
in relation to district secretariats,  divisional  secretariats  and Grama Niladharis of the Grama Niladhari divisions in terms 
of article 44 or 45 of the constitution (hereinafter referred to as the “authorized secretary”) to facilitate the use of electronic 
documents and electronic records for the efficient delivery of services through the relevant District and Divisional Secretariats 
and the Grama Niladharis.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
2a
(2) There shall be an e-Grama Niladhari household and citizens’ data repository system (hereinafter referred 
to as the “e-Grama Niladhari System”) which shall operate as a database for the purposes and activities specified in sub 
regulation (1). The authorized secretary shall manage the database as an information system within the meaning of the act.
3. (1) The Grama Niladhari shall derive its mandate from the provisions of -
 (a) the headmen (change of designation) Ordinance No. 11 of 1941 ;
 (b) the Village headmen (change of designation) act, No. 6 of 1964 ; 
 (c) the Grama sevaka (change of designation) Law, No. 5 of 1977 ;
 (d) the Transfer of Powers (divisional secretaries) act, No. 58 of 1992 by which a divisional secretary of 
a divisional secretary's division of an administrative district is assigned ; and
 (e) the Grama seva Niladhari (change of designation) act, No. 2 of 1993 by which the Grama Niladhari 
and Grama Niladhari division have evolved. 
(2) The e-Grama Niladhari System being an information system shall create, file, process, securly store and retain, 
share or issue a document or record of the residents and non-residents of each Grama Niladhari division together with the 
associated resource profiles, where necessary. The information generated, issued or reproduced through the said system shall 
be supervised and verified by the respective Grama Niladhari of the Grama Niladhari Division. 
4. a  document or record generated, issued or reproduced under regulation 3 shall constitute an electronic document 
or  electronic record within the meaning of the act.
5. (1) The Grama Niladhari may, by himself or through the district secretary or divisional secretary, use the 
Forms hr-r-01 and hr-r-02 set out in the schedule I, to obtain information of the housing units and persons occupying 
the housing units, for the purposes of -
 (a)  establishing an island wide register maintained by electronic means to facilitate relief and welfare 
services and other public services for the benefit of the citizens, as the need may be, in an efficient 
manner through the respective Grama Niladhari. 
 (b) establishing an accurate and up to date community database, based on the location of each housing unit 
as provided by the said Form hr-r-01 and the persons occupying such housing unit as provided by the 
said Form hr-r-02, in respect of each Grama Niladhari division.
 (c) providing an information system for the efficient and effective resource planning by the Grama Niladhari, 
who with the respective Government organization will co-ordinate in providing services and relief 
facilities to citizens of the housing units.
(2) subject to receiving written instructions from the authorized secretary, the Grama Niladhari shall provide the 
necessary assistance in terms of sub regulation (1), on been satisfied of the accuracy of the information received.
6. (1) When a secretary to a ministry, other than the authorized secretary, requires information from the e-Grama 
Niladhari information system a request to that effect shall be made in writing by the Secretary of that Ministry to the authorized 
Secretary. The request shall clearly specify the official purpose for which the information is required and the action to be 
taken based on such information.
(2) The authorized Secretary, having being satisfied of the good faith in the use of the requested information under 
sub regulation (1), may accede to the request for information.
(3) The Grama Niladhari shall, after compiling the information under this Regulation, file, process, update, securely 
retain, share or issue a document or record using such information electronically and dispatch the said data or a portion thereof, 
to a nominated officer of a Government organization as authorized in writing by the authorized Secretary.
7. any amendment, correction, insertion or note to an entry of the e-Grama Niladhari system shall be made thereto 
and updated regularly by the Grama Niladhari of the respective Grama Niladhari division.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
3a
8. (1) The authorized secretary shall ensure that-
(a)  an electronic document and electronic record is, created, filed and securely stored or retained and 
maintained in accordance with the guidelines  provided in Part a  of the schedule II;
(b)  the control process and procedures have been followed to secure the confidentiality, authenticity and 
integrity of an electronic document and electronic record is in accordance with Part b of the schedule 
II; and
(c)  the manner or method for receipt of payment of any fees or charges for the filing, creation, retention or 
issue of any electronic record or electronic document shall be in accordance with Part c of the schedule II.
(2) The authorized Secretary or a designated officer may file and retain the particulars in the form of an electronic 
record using the e-Grama Niladhari System, including the particulars specified in regulation 6.
(3)  The authorized Secretary shall notify the public, of any variation or modification to the Forms referred to in 
the Schedule I, by giving sufficient publicity through the Grama Niladhari of the respective Grama Niladhari Division.
9. In these regulations-
“act” means the electronic Transactions act, No. 19 of 2006;
“associated resource profiles” means immovable properties and geographical features associated with 
each housing unit and utilized or possessed by residents and non-residents who live permanently 
or temporarily in the particular housing unit located at the respective Grama Niladhari division;
“designated officer” means a public official who shall be nominated by the authorized Secretary in writing 
to officially administer the e-Grama Niladhari System on his behalf, adhering to the Data and 
Service Classification Policy of the e-Grama Niladhari Project; 
“district secretary” in relation to an administrative district means the district secretary appointed for that 
administrative district by the Government;
“divisional secretary” shall have the same meaning as in the Transfer of Powers (divisional secretaries) 
act, No. 58 of 1992;
“electronic”, “electronic document”, “electronic record” and “information system” shall have the same 
meaning as in the electronic Transactions act, No. 19 of 2006;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
4a
scheduLe I 
form (HR-R-01)
[regulation 5]

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
5a


<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
6a
form (HR-R-02)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
7a


<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
8a


<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
9a


<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
10a
scheduLe  II
[ regulation 8 (1) (a)]
Part A
1.  An electronic document and electronic record shall be created, filed, securely retained and maintained in the following 
manner:-
(a) in both text data and image data;
(b) by scanning document images and data entry procedures;
2.  In relation to housing units and persons within the housing units in the information system-
(a) all data shall be stored in a relational database; 
(b)   all images shall be encrypted and stored in the information system;
(c )  access shall be provided to designated officers, in writing by the authorized Secretary, under the “Data Classification 
and Interoperability Framework for e-Grama Niladhari Project;
    [regulation 8 (1) (b)]
Part B
The control process and procedures to secure the confidentiality, authenticity and integrity of an electronic document and 
electronic record, shall be as follows:-
(1) all data stored in servers, server systems and network of the information system associated with the e-Grama Niladhari 
project, including the physical security of servers, shall be securely maintained under the supervision of a system 
administrator with secure access rights to be determined from time to time;
(2) The electronic documents and electronic records shall be created, edited, viewed and shared only by the designated 
officer authorized by the authorized Secretary in writing;
(3) Access shall be granted to the designated officers through passwords and codes;
(4) The designated officers shall be assigned different job roles in the information system for the purpose of control and 
supervision;
(5) Data related to the housing units and persons within the housing units shall be validated, verified and corrected at 
several points to minimize data entry errors. The scanned images of source documents shall be made available to the 
designated officers of the information system for verifying the data at any given time;
(6) If any designated officer of the information system makes any change to any data in the said system it shall be recorded 
in the information system with edited fields, user identity, date, time and such information required to be recorded by 
the authorized Secretary or the said designated officer;
(7) The authorized Secretary shall inform the designated officer the purpose for which reports may be generated from the 
e-Grama Niladhari information system;
(8) The authorized Secretary shall designate the officers who shall take daily and weekly backups of the data as well as 
electronic records and electronic documents in the information system and specify the location and manner in which 
such backup information may be stored.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2022
11 a
[ regulation 8(1) (c)] 
Part C
The manner or method for receipt of payment of any fees or charges for the filing, creation, retention or issue of any electronic 
record or electronic document shall be as follows:-
(1) The authorized Secretary shall levy fees or charges for the services provided, including charges for the filing, creation, 
retention or issue of any electronic record or electronic document using the e-Grama Niladhari information system;
(2) The fees and charges to be levied for the services facilitated using the information system shall be determined and 
notified by the authorized Secretary from time to time;
(3) All payments received in respect of the services provided, including payments for the filing, creation, retention or issue 
of any electronic record or electronic document shall be updated through the e-Grama Niladhari information system 
and three receipts shall be generated; with one receipt each being provided to the applicant of the service, one for the 
file and the other kept as a physical record;
(4) Reports in relation to any payment received for the services provided, including payments for the filing, creation, 
retention or issue of any electronic record or electronic document shall be issued and generated from the e-Grama 
Niladhari information system.
eOG 12 - .0290
PrINTed a T The deP ar TmeNT OF GOVerNmeNT PrINTING,  srI LaNKa.