

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1539
wxl 1"836 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'11'08
No. 1,836 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER  08, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  29th  November, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
November,  2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ... 1540
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1539
N.B.— Part I:III  and II of the Gazette No.1835 of 01.11.2013 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1540
 LOCAL AUTHORITIES (STANDARD BY-LAWS) ACT,
NO. 6 OF 1952
DRAFT By-laws made by me, Shasheendra Rajapaksa, as Chief
Minister and Minister of Local Government in the Uva Province
Provincial Council by virtue of powers vested in the Minister under
whose purview the subject of Local Government of the Provincial
Council falls under Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Local
Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952 read together
with Paragraph (a) of Sub Section (1) of Section 2 of Provincial
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 are
published hereby.
While the Urban Councils have been empowered by
Sections 94 and 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter
255) read together with Section 157 of that Ordinance to make By-
laws containing provisions embodied in those draft By-laws, the
Urban Councils in the  Uva  Province are hereby empowered to
accept these draft by-laws subject to provisions in Sub Section (1)
of Section 3 of the Local Authorities (Standard by-laws) Act referred
to above.
S
HASHEENDRA RAJAPAKSA,
Chief Minister and Minister of Local
Government, Provincial Council,
Uva Province.
Chief Minister’s Office, Badulla.
14th October, 2013.
PART I
BY-LAWS RELATING TO INTERPRETATION IN RESPECT OF ALL STANDARD
BY-LAWS
1. Unless any other meaning is sought in respect of terms contained
in by-laws in parts IV to XXX of these standard by-laws, by
any Urban Council after formally accepting these standard
by-laws,
“Appropriate time authorized to make inquiries” means the
period from 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. on any one day, and
in the event of any justifiable alternative period of time
has being specified in any part of these by-laws the
appropriate time authorized to make inquiries about
provisions mentioned therein shall be that specific period
of time.
“Area of the Urban Council” means the area of authority of the
relevant Urban Council.
“Authorized Officer” means any officer of the Urban Council
authorized by the Chairman in writing for a particular
function ;
By - Laws
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the relevant Urban Council.
“Licensee” means any person who has obtained a licence under
the provisions of by-laws of any part and includes the
guardian or manager of such licensed premises or any
person administering such place for the time being ;
“Licensed premises” means any area for which a licence has
been issued under provisions of the by-laws of any part;
“Public Place” means any road, avenue, street, lane, path,
pavement, public ground, road reservation, playground,
public building, public cemetery, bus stand, railway
station, river, canal, stream, tank, pond, lagoon,
watercourse, rain water canal, sea beach, any land belonging
to the Council, any plot of state land reserved for public
use or any other public place being used by the people ;
“Public source of water” means a river, canal, stream,
watercourse, well, tank, pond, gutter and sea but shall
not mean any drain erected to facilitate flow of water
within a licensed premises ;
“Regional Director of Health Services” means the Regional
Director of Health Services appointed to cover the Urban
Council  area ;
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other
officer delegated to carry out the powers, functions and
duties of the Secretary;
“Urban Council” means the relevant Urban Council.
2. When any interpretation is needed in respect of any other
term not being mentioned in by-law No. 1 but being stated in
any part of these standard by-laws, the interpretation in
respect of that term or the terms specially mentioned at the
end of that particular Part shall come into force relevant to
that Part only.
PART II
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO GENERAL PROVISIONS RELEV ANT TO ALL
STANDARD BY-LAWS
1. Any notice issued to any person by the Urban Council or by
the Chairman or by any Authorized Officer under any part
of the standard by-laws contained in Part IV to Part XXX of
such by-laws may be considered as properly handed over,-
(a) If it had been handed over to the post in a manner that
could be proved that it had been delivered to be directed
to the particular person who should receive the notice;
or

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1541
(b) If it had been handed over to him or to anybody
residing in his address for the time being; or
(c) If it had been pasted in any place in his residence or in
the place where he is engaged in his functions;
and the handing over in any of these manners shall be
lawful.
2. While it is possible for the Chairman to delegate under
provisions specified in a written document to any officer of
the Urban Council any function or duty vested in the
Chairman under the provisions of any part of these standard
by-laws, such actions performed by any person so
empowered to act subject to the provisions specified in the
letter of delegation shall be lawful and it shall be considered
as functions or duties performed by the Chairman under the
powers vested in him by these standard by-laws.
3. While the Chairman or any Authorized Officer shall have
the power to examine any premises licensed under any
provision or provisions in any part of these standard by-
laws it is the duty of the licensee to assist in the examination
performed during the appropriate time for such examination.
Moreover, action shall not be taken to prevent or obstruct
such examination.
PART III
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO PENALTIES IN RESPECT OF VIOLA TION OF
PROVISIONS OR PROVISIONS OF ANY BY-LAW
1. It shall be an offence to infringe or violate a provision or
provisions specified in any by-law contained in Part IV to
Part XXX of these standared by-laws.
2. In the event of being found guilty by a properly constituted
Court of Law of any offence specified in by-law No. 1, such
offender shall be subject to a penalty specified in Sub Section
(2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinacne (Chapter
255).
3. In the event of any offender subjected to a penalty as
specified in by-law No. 2 on being found guilty of any offence
specified in by-law No. 1, by a properly constituted Court
of Law, continuing to commit such infringement or violation
he shall be subjected to an extra penalty specified in Sub-
section (2) of Section 153 referred to above.
PART IV
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO CONDUCTING OF BUSINESS AT THE MEETINGS OF
THE URBAN COUNCIL
1. The by-laws in this part are cited as the by-laws relating to
conducting of business at the meetings of the Urban Council.
2. (1) A general Meeting of the Urban Council shall be held at
the Urban Council Office on a previously designated
date and time in each month. In the event of such day
falling on a day declared as a public holiday under the
Holidays Act, No. 29 of 1971 it shall be considered that
such meeting has been decided to be held on the next
working day immediately following such public holiday
and the meeting shall be held on that day.
(2) The notification summoning of a general meeting or a
special meeting of an Urban Council shall be issued in
Sinhala or Tamil or in both these languages.
(3) A notification on the summoning of a general meeting
and on the programme for each of such meeting shall be
delivered to each Member at least four days before the
day of the meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
Public Holidays.
(4) In the event of the notification being placed in the
premises usually occupied by the Member to whom it is
being directed due to the inability to personally deliver
the notification specified in paragraph (2) and (3) due to
some reason it shall be considered that it had been
properly delivered.
3. (1) In the event of a quorum being not available no
proceedings shall be made. The quorum of a general
meeting of an Urban Council shall be one third the
number of Members holding office on the date of the
meeting. In the event of the one third of the
Membership being a whole number and a fraction the
next whole number higher than this whole number and
fraction shall be considered as the one third for the
purposes of this by-law.
(2) In the event of a quorum not being present even after
the elapse of half an hour after the scheduled time of
any meeting or any time after the commencement of
the meeting the Chairman of the meeting shall adjourn
the meeting to a date not later than fifteen days after
the particular meeting and considered to be suitable
by him. The business that could have been presented
at this adjourned meeting in the event of a quorum
being present shall be presented at the subsequent
meeting and suitable action taken in that regard.
4. (1) The Chairman of a general or special meeting of the
Urban Council having a quorum shall adjourn the
meeting from time to time with the consent of the
Council. No other business than that which is left
unfinished after being included in the Order Paper of
the Meeting which was so adjourned shall be taken up
at a subsequent meeting without the leave of the
Council.
(2) Unless it has been decided at the earlier meeting to
hold the adjourned meeting within twenty-four hours,
the notification in respect of  the adjourned meeting
shall be delivered to the Members at least three days
before the scheduled time of the particular meeting.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1542
5. The guests including the press reporters shall take seats
allotted to them in the premises where the meeting of the
Council is held. But if it is the declared view arrived at a
majority decision of the members participating in the Meeting
of the Council that it is in the interests of the public to
remove public from the Council Chambers the public shall
leave the Chamber when they are called upon to do so by the
Chairman of the Council.
6. The Business of the Meeting should be conducted in the
following sequence:
(a) confirm of the Minutes of the previous meeting;
(b) special Announcements made by the Chairman;
(c) presentation of Memorandums, Petitions, Complaints
and Communications addressed to the Urban Council;
(d) questions that had been given due notice of;
(e) motions that had been given due notice of;
(f) presentation of Reports of Committees. Unless the
Council decides to consider these reports then and there
the Council shall fix a date to consider them;
(g) presentation and consideration of monthly statements
on receipts and expenditure, progress reports on revenue
collected and other documents scheduled to be presented
to the Urban Council;
(h) in the event of notice being given of any other matters in
the notification summoning the meeting those matters
shall be taken up in that sequence or in the sequence
decided upon by the Urban Council on special grounds.
7. ( a) The priority and the seniority of the Members of the
Council shall be as follows:
(i) Chairman;
(ii) V ice Chairman;
(iii) in the case of re-election of former members of
the Council the sequence of their uninterrupted
membership shall be taken as the basis; and
(iv) in the case of other members the priority sequence
followed by the Commissioner General of
Elections in Gazettin g their appointments on
election shall be followed.
(b) In the event of the equality of the uninterrupted
membership of any two or more members of the Council
indicated in sub section (III) of Section (a) the priority
and seniority shall be taken into consideration on the
sequence followed by the Commissioner General of
Elections in Gazetting their appointments on their
election to the Council at the latest election.
(c) The political parties and independent groups belonging
to the sequence of the members elected in accordance
with the Gazette Notification  being published by the
Commissioner General of Elections in regard to
election of Members to any Urban Council after the
election of members to such Council shall not be
relevant to the purposes of this by-law.
8. (1) The Secretary shall maintain reports of proceedings,
orders and decisions of the Meetings of the Urban
Council in Sinhala or Tamil.
(2) The following matters in regard to decisions or
agreements arrived at in respect of proceedings of any
Meeting shall be included in the report with each
motion or matter.
(a) In case of a motion, the contents of such motion;
(b) The name of the member proposing the Motion
and that of the Seconded;
(c) The names of Members expressing their views for
and against the motion;
(d) Whether the motion was passed or rejected
unanimously; or
(e) In the event of a division being called for a motion,
the following matters in respect of that motion
shall be recorded;
(i) The number and the identity of the Members
voting for the motion,
(ii) The number and the identity of the Members
voting against the motion,
(iii) The number and the identity of the Members
abstaining from voting on the motion;
(iv) The number and identity of the Members
present at the Meeting but have left the
Chambers at the time of voting.
(f) In the event of the sequence of business of the
Council being in respect of any other matter, the
decision taken by the Council in regard to such
matter.
(3) While the report of each meeting shall be distributed
among the Members, the Chairman shall put the
question in the next meeting that it should be confirmed
on the presumption that it had been read at the meeting.
If there are no protests or rectifications the Report
shall be confirmed as it is. Otherwise, if there are
protests or rectifications those amendments should
be included in the Report. The Chairman of the meeting
shall certify by placing his signature as to whether
there are no amendments at the end of the Report or
otherwise that the Report had been confirmed subject
to amendments specified in the Report.
(4) The matters and statements made by the members at
the meeting of the Council shall not be included in the
Council Report. However, if the Urban Council is of
the view that it would be necessary to be aware of the
views or statements made by any Member at the
Council action may be taken to prepare voice recordings
of such meeting or meetings and keep them securely
in the Urban Council and also distribute them among
the members.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1543
9. (1) Any Member presenting a petition or memorandum
to the Council shall briefly explain the objective of
the petition or the memorandum.
(2) Any Member shall not present to the Council any
petition, or memorandum or any other communication
not being written in a respectable tone and not
containing the name and address of the person writing
it.
(3) Any member shall propose that a petition or
memorandum be read out to the Council. When the
proposal is made he should briefly state the reasons
as to why it is expected to read out the particular
document.
(4) While no debate shall be allowed on the motion no
member shall speak on the petition or the memorandum
rather than formally seconding the motion.
(5) When the motion is seconded the question shall be
put as to whether the relevant petition or the
memorandum should be read out.
(6) It shall be lawful for a member to propose that a
petition or memorandum presented to the Council
shall be directed to the Chairman for suitable action or
to a Committee for report on final action to be taken
in this regard.
(7) In the event of any action being taken to examine the
testimony of any witnesses the petitioner or the
member requiring such witnesses shall forward to the
Secretary a list containing the names, addresses and
vocations of such witnesses at least three day before
the Scheduled date of the inquiry and the Secretary
shall inform the witnesses in writing to present
themselves for the inquiry.
10. (1) Questions pertaining to the activities of the Council
shall be put to the Chairman.
(2) Notice of at least seven working days, excluding
Sundays and Public Holidays shall be given in respect
of any question.
(3) A written reply to each question shall be read out by
the Chairman  at the Meeting of the Council.
(4) While a Member shall not address the Council on any
question the terms contained in any question shall
not constitute any argument, or imputation of any
motive or expression of any view or matter rather
than limiting to explaining the question involved.
(5) Any Member shall raise a supplementary question
for the purpose of getting further explanation in regard
to a matter or incident on which a reply has been
given at a meeting. However, the Chairman of the
meeting  shall not allow raise of such question if in his
opinion any supplementary question may violate the
provisions set out above in this By-law and on any
such occassion the relevant supplementary question
shall not be included in the Report of the Council.
11. (1) While all notices in regard to presentation of motions
shall be in writing the member giving notice shall sign
it. The motion shall not be included in the Order Paper
unless it was in the custody of the Secretary for a
period of seven days before the date of the Meeting,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays.
(2) All notices in respect of motions shall be included in
the Order paper by the Secretary in the sequence of
their receipt and having entered the date of receipt and
serial number.
(3) While the Chairman  shall be presented with any notice
in regard to a Motion, before it is included in the
Order Paper, he shall order that it be not included in
the Order Paper if in his opinion it is contrary to
rules, and action shall be taken to inform the Member
making the notice about it.
(4) All Motions given notice of shall be in respect of any
question having an impact on the administration of
the activities of the Urban Council.
(5) The presentation of any motion to rescind any motion
approved during the period of past six months or of
any other motion causing similar consequences results
to a motion rejected during the past six months shall
not be considered as agreeable with the By-laws of
this part, unless a notice has been signed by four other
Members in addition to the Member who proposes
that it would be presented and it has been specifically
mentioned in the Order Paper. After suitable action is
taken in respect of that Motion no Member shall have
the power to present a similar Motion during the
period of next six months.
(6) Any Motion shall not be considered as being presented
for debate until it is moved and seconded.
(7) Any Member rising in his seat and saluting the Chair
with a bow may formally second any Motion or
Amendement without prejudice to his right to
participate in the debate subsequently.
(8) As soon as action has been taken in respect of Motions
for which notice has been given already a member has
the right to present a Motion seeking leave of the
Council to present any Motion for which notice has
not been given earlier. However, it should have been
handed over to the Secretary by the member moving
the motion having placed his signature to the motion.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1544
(9) After a motion has been presented to the meeting and
seconded and the debate on it has been concluded the
Chairman of the meeting shall put the question in
regard to approval of the motion.
12. Any motion or Amendment presented by any member
shall be withdrawn by that member with the leave of the
Council. Leave shall be granted without debate. Unless
granting of leave is rejected after a member presenting
any motion asks for such leave no member shall have the
power to speak on that motion.
13. Any motion withdrawn earlier shall be presented again at
a subsequent meeting. However, any motion substantially
similar to any motion decided to be accepted or rejected
during the period of past six months as stated in By-law
No. 11 shall not be presented.
  14. (1) While all amendments to a Motion shall be presented
in writing the member proposing it shall present the
written amendment or amendments to the Secretary.
(2) All amendments to a motion shall be relevant to the
motion being discussed for the time being.
(3) All amendments to a motion shall be read out to the
Council before presentation.
(4) Unless any amendment is seconded it shall not be
discussed or presented to the Council.
(5) A member seconding a motion formally shall have the
right to speak on it later.
(6) When an amendment to any motion being discussed
has been presented and seconded, action should not
be taken to present a second or subsequent amendment
until the first amendment is disposed of suitably. If an
amendment is approved the amended motion shall
taken the place of the original motion and if there are
any further amendments they shall be amendments in
respect of the amended motion.
15. After the Chairman of the meeting has put the question in
regard to the approval of any matter, question or motion
referred to the Council no member shall speak further on
that question. Moreover, after the question has been put
by the Chairman of the meeting in regard to the approval
of any matter, question or motion and after unanimous
approval or division being called it shall be considered
that the relevant question has been resolved completely.
16. (1) While the Chairman of the meeting shall put the
question in regard to approval of any matter, question
or motion, it shall be considered to have being approved
unanimously unless any member has not called for a
division on the motion after the question is put to the
Council. However, in the event of any member calling
for a division in regard to the motion or calling for a
secret vote on the matter the Chairman of the meeting
shall take action to hold a vote.
(2) When a division is required in respect of any matter,
question or motion in the manner set out in paragraph
(1) above;
(i) The Secretary shall take action to hold the division
by noting down the preference of each member
having inquired about it separately in accordance
with the priority sequence of the Members
indicated in By-law No. 7, when the division is
not a secret vote; or
(ii) When the division is held by secret vote, the
Secretary shall take action to count the votes cast
by each member who had noted their preference in
a ballot paper issued to them spearately.
(3) At the conclusion of the division taken by the Secretary
in any manner set out in paragraph (2) above, the
Chairman of the meeting shall announce the approval
arrived at by the Urban Council in respect of the
particular matter, question or motion.
(4) When any question is put to the Urban Council or to
a Committee of the whole House, the members present
shall vote for or against the question, unless they
abstain from voting.
(5) In the event of a member abstaining from voting when
a division is called the Secretary shall take action to
record his name as a member who had abstained from
voting.
17. While the Chairman of the meeting shall have an original
vote with the other members at the meetings of the Council
or at meetings of a Committee of the whole House in respect
of any matter, question or motion, in case of equality of
votes taken on any motion he shall have a casting vote as
well.
18. While the Member who is not in agreement with any matter,
question or motion shall have the right to get his dissent
recorded in the Report of the Council the Secretary shall
take action to record the reasons for the member’s dissent
in the Report of the Proceedings of that meeting in the
event of such member handing over a written statement on
his dissent to the Secretary within one week of the relevant
meeting.
19. The proceedings of the Meetings prepared in accordance
with the by-law No. 6 shall include all matters relevant to
the sequence. The proceedings of the meetings shall be
conducted in accordance with the sequence set out in By-
law No. 6 unless any other sequence has been approved at
any Meeting.
20. (1) While it is the duty of the Chairman of the meeting
to maintain discipline of the meeting his decision on all
points of order contested by the members shall be
final.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1545
(2) The Chairman of the meeting shall order on his own
opinion or on a point of order raised by any other
member that any member acting in contravention of the
provisions of the By-laws in this part should act
according to the By-laws.
21. While a member raising a point of order should take his
seat after raising the matter, no other member shall speak
on the matter without leave of the Chairman of the meeting
until the question is resolved by the Chairman. Thereafter,
the member who had been addressing the Council at the
time the question was raised shall have the right to continue
with his speech if he is in agreement with the decision of
the Chairman, of the Council or the Committee of the
Council. If he is not in agreement with the decision the
Chairman of the meeting shall deny him the opportunity of
continuing with the speech.
22. The Urban Council shall censure or act as it considers
suitable in respect of a member who had not made an
explanation in regard to unsuitable words used by him or
who had not withdrawn such words or who had not
expressed his regret in using such words in a manner
acceptable to the Council.
23. When the Chairman  of the meeting expresses his desire to
speak the member on his feet at that moment shall take his
seat.
24. (1) The Chairman of the meeting shall name a member
who violates the provisions of the By-laws in this
part by disregarding the authority  of the Chair or
purposely interrrupting the proceedings over and over
again. On a motion presented by some member or by
the Chairman of the meeting to the effect that “the
Urban Council Service of that member shall be
suspended” the Chairman shall put the question
immediately. Such motion shall not be allowed to be
amended, adjourned or debated.
(2) If the Council Service of any member were to be
suspended under this By-law as a result of the
approval of any such motion, the suspension shall be
effective for duration of one month at the first instance,
two months at the second and three months at the
third or subsequent instances.
(3) Unless a number of members present at a meeting
have collectively disregarded the authority of the
Chairman of the meeting no more than one member
shall be named at a time.
(4) In the event of any member whose Council Service
has been suspended under this By-law or a number of
members acting collectively, rejecting at any time during
the course of such suspension, the acceptance of the
orders made by the Chairman of a meeting to leave the
Chambers they shall be reported to the Minister by
the Chairman for suitable action having named them
as members who had not carried out his decision.
25. Having invited the attention of a member on his conduct
when he keeps on repeating irrelevant matters or keeps on
repeating the arguments put forward by him or other
members at the Debate causing concern to the Council, the
Chairman of the meeting shall order such member to stop the
speech.
26. (1) In respect of members conducting themselves in
serious violation of discipline the Chairman of the
meeting shall order them out of the chambers
immediately and to remain outside till the proceedings
of the day are over.
(2) If the Chairman of any meeting is of the view at any
time that his powers under this by-law are not
sufficient he shall act in accordance with provisions
of paragraph (4) of By-law, No. 24.
27. Members whose services have been suspended under
paragraph (1) of By-law, No. 24 or who have been ordered
out of the chambers under paragraph (4) of By-law No. 24
shall leave the chamber immediately.
28. A member shall at any time move that a debate on any
question be suspended. If the motion is seconded a division
shall be taken immediately. When a serious breach of
discipline has been caused at a meeting the Chairman of the
meeting shall without question put either suspends the
proceedings for a duration ordered by him or adjourn it, if in
his opinion it is necessary to suspend the proceedings of the
meeting.
29. The following rules shall strictly be adhered to when speeches
are made in regard to any matter considered by the Urban
Council or by a Committee of the whole House.
(a) While every member should address the Chairman of
the meeting when speaking at a meeting, he shall be on
his feet except when participating in Committee Stage
Debates.
(b) Unless a member speaking violates the provisions of
the By-laws in this part he shall not be interrrupted.
(c) Any member shall resume his seat after making the
speech. Thereafter any other memeber wishing to
speak shall address the Council.
(d) A member shall not read out a prepared speech.
However, he shall quote from written or printed
articles in order to prove his arguments.
(e) In case of two members wishing to speak at the same
time at a meeting the Chairman of the meeting shall
ask the member who caught his attention first to speak.
(f) Every member shall limit his observations to the subject
under discussion only.
(g) No member shall impute undesirable motives to any
other member.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1546
(h) All speeches of private nature shall be avoided.
(i) A member shall speak on the question before the
Urban Council or on any amendment of the question.
(j) No member shall speak more than once in regard to a
matter before the Council except when it is required
to make an explanation on a point or order or when
the Council has transformed into a Committee.
(k) Even in the absence of a question before the Council a
member shall make an explanation of private nature
with the leave of the Council. However, while the
explanation should be limited to absolving his conduct,
no debate shall be allowed on the matter.
(l) A member moving any motion shall have the right to
reply after all the members present have been given
the opportunity of expressing  their views on the
motion and before the question is put to the House.
However, while his speech should be limited to
replying the speakers who had participated in the
debate he shall not present new facts. The mover of
any amendment shall not have the opportunity of
replying any further.
30. (1) The Urban Council shall transform itself into a
Committee at any time through a resolution. However,
after the Committee returns to the status of the house
through a similar resolution the Council shall take a
decision on the consequences of matters discussed at
the Committee Stage.
(2) When any discussion of a Committee of the Council
is in progress at any time any member shall have the
right to propose that the Committee should revert
back to a whole house. The Chairman of the Committee
of the whole House  shall put the question to the
House and in the event of it being carried the Council
should immediately revert back to the status of a general
Council.
31. (1) For certain functions of the Council the Urban Council
shall appoint from time to time Consultative
Committees consisting of members deemed suitable
by the Council or consisting of members and other
citizens in equal numbers.
(2) A Consultative Committee appointed in this manner
shall not perform some functions after the elapse of
the year in which it was constituted.
(3) The quorum of all meetings of such Consultative
Committees shall be one third of the number of
members holding office on the day of that meeting. In
the event of one third of the members being a whole
number and a fraction the whole number immediately
above such whole number and the fraction should be
considered as the whole number for the purpose of
this By-law.
(4) When the Chairman of the any Consultative Committee
is absent from the meeting the members present shall
elect one of the members as the Chairman of the
Committee. Such member shall have all powers vested
in the Chairman of that Consultative Committee.
(5) When a Consultative Committee has extended its
consent for some report all the members shall sign
that report, and it shall be presented to the Urban
Council together with the report of that Consultative
Committee.
(6) The press reporters shall not be allowed to witness
the proceedings of a Consultative Committee meeting.
32. While the Secretary of the Urban Council shall function as
the Secretary of the Consultative Committee on finances
and policies of the Urban Council, it shall be duty of the
Chairman to appoint some officer of the Urban Council to
function as the Secretary of other Consultative Committees.
33. While it shall be the duty of the Secretary to a particular
Consultative Committee to maintain records of the
proceedings of each and every Consultative Committee of
the Council, such Committee Reports shall be presented to
the subsequent meeting of the Urban Council.
34. While all members attending the Council shall enter their
names and the time of arrival in an  Attendance Register
maintained by the Secretary and sign it in the sequence of
their arrival the Register shall be in the custody of the
Secretary.
35. While all members of a Consultative Committee attending
the meetings of such Committee shall enter their names and
the time of arrival in an Attendance Register maintained by
the Secretary of the Committee and sign it, in the sequence
of their arrival, the Register shall be in the custody of the
Secretary to the Committee.
36. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Commissioner General of Elections” means the
Commissioner General of the Elections
Commission and it also includes the Returning
Officer of any Urban Council.
“Chairman of the meeting” means the Chairman presiding
over meetings of the Council for the time being or
the Vice Chairman of the Council who takes the
Chair in his absence and it also includes any other
member elected on the vote of the members for
the Chair in the absence of both the Chairman and
the Vice Chairman.
“Voice Recordings” means a tape where voice recordings
are made mechanically and it includes a compact
disc where voice can be recorded or any other
instrument where data can be stored.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1547
PART V
BY-LAWS RELA TING TO THE SALE OF FISH
1. The By-laws in this Part are cited as the By-laws in regard
to regularize, supervise and control the sale of fish within
the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. No person shall use any other premises than a market for
the purpose of selling fish without a valid licence issued by
the Chairman.
3. Provided that the premises applied for is in conformity
with the conditions set out below the Chairman shall not
issue a licence to anybody to carry on a fish sales centre:-
(a) The place where fish is exhibited for sale shall be laid
with tiles or plastered with cement or applied with rust
proof metal sheets.
(b) The floor of the premises where fish is exhibited for sale
and the floor of the stores shall be finished off with
cement or laid with tiles.
(c) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid
with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate the
flow of waste water.
(d) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to
prevent the waste water draining through the drains
referred to in paragraph (c) flowing to any public source
of water, action shall be taken to drain off such waste
water to a suction pit.
(e) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall
not be opened to the air.
(f) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste
produced at the fish market shall be made available action
shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to ground
such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep in the ground
or hand over such waste to a collection truck of the
Urban Council in accordance with provisions decided
upon by the Council from time to time.
(g) While water-sealed lavatory facilities sufficient for the
use of the persons working in the premises shall be made
available suitable sanitary methods and material to be
made use of after the use of the lavatory shall be supplied.
4. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish stall action
shall be taken to wash and clean with disinfectant fluid the
floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to
cut fish, other utensils and the places exhibiting the fish for
sale.
5. Provided that action is taken to transport fish in a vehicle or
a box or any other utensil that could be securely closed to
prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal,
no person shall transport any species of fish and after the
transport of fish action shall be taken to wash with disinfectant
fluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil used in
transporting fish.
6. Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and
devoid of any bad smell the drains in and around any licensed
fish stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing,
processing or sale of fish.
7. Provided that fish left behind unsold at the conclusion of
daily sales at the licensed fish stall are stored in a deep
freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated
from the time of storage until the opening of the stall for
sales on the following day no species of fish left behind
unsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep
freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.
8. Except instruments and containers used for storage or
processing or sale of fish no other goods or clothes or mats
used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the
licensed stall.
9. Any licensed fish stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats
or insects.
10. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation
of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been
recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such
a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or
let anybody else engage in any form of sale or as an
assistant of any person engaged in sale at any fish
stall.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of sale at a fish stall.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all
employees deployed at the fish stall to a medical test
at least once a year.
11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty at the fish stall.
12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap
fluid for the use of all persons employed at the licensed
premises.
13. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the
By-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an Authorized
Officer shall mean any occasion fish sales are done at the
fish-stall.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1548
14. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed
premises are recycled, action shall be taken to
categorize the waste material under the categories. -
(i) biodegradable waste,
(ii) glass ,
(iii) paper or paper based materials,
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics,
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ,
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of
in the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ,
(vii) dangerous waste ,
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put
in place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the
programme of waste management launched by the
Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
15. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of fish kept for sale or
displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any fish
stall, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.
16. In the event of the premises where sale of fish is carried on
under a licence issued under the By-laws of this Part fails to
maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set
out in By-law, No. 3 or contravenes the provisions of any
By-law of the By-laws set out in this  part the Chairman
shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee
demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore
the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified
date.
17.  Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law,
No. 16 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before
the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
18. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-
law, No. 17 fails to act in accordance with the manner set
out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the
date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
the licence issued to that premises.
PART VI
B
Y LAWS RELA TING TO SALE OF MEA T
1. The by-laws in this Part are cited as the By-laws in relating
to regularize, supervise and control the sale of meat within
the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. No person shall use any other premises than a market for the
purpose of selling meat without a valid licence issued by the
Chairman.
3. Provided that the premises applied for is in conformity with
the conditions set out below the Chairman shall not issue a
licence to anybody to carry on a meat sales centre.
(a) The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid
with tiles or plastered with cement or applied with rust
proof metal sheets.
(b) The floor of the premises where meat is exhibited for
sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished off with
cement or laid with tiles.
(c) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid
with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate the
flow of waste water.
(d) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to
prevent the waste water draining through the drains
referred to in paragraph (c) flowing to any public source
of water, action shall be taken to drain off such waste
water to a suction pit.
(e) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall
not be opened to the air.
(f) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste
produced at the meat market shall be made available
action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to
ground such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep in
the ground or hand over such waste to a collection truck
of the Urban Council in accordance with provisions
decided upon by the Council from time to time.
(g) While water-sealed lavatory facilities sufficient for the
use of the persons working in the premises shall be
made available suitable sanitary methods and material
to be made use of after the use of the lavatory shall be
supplied.
4. Provided that the meat is of an animal slaughtered at a slaughter
house formally licensed under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance, no person shall sell or exhibit for sale meat at any
meat stall.
5. Provided that action is taken to transport meat in a vehicle or
a box or any other utensil that could be securely closed to
prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal,
no person shall transport any species of meat and after the

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1549
transport of meat action shall be taken to wash with
disinfectant fluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil
used in transporting meat.
6. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action
shall be taken to wash and clean with disinfectant fluid the
floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to
cut meat, other utensils and the places exhibiting meat for
sale.
7. Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and
devoid of any bad smell the drains in and around any licensed
meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing,
processing or sale of meat.
8. Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of
daily sales at the licensed meat stall are stored in a deep
freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated
from the time of storage until the opening of the stall for
sales on the following day no species of meat left behind
unsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep
freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.
9. When the Authorized officer has  gazetted a proclamation
under the provisions of  Section 17 of the Butchers Ordinance
prohibiting the slaughter of animals in any slaughter house
for food during a certain day no meat stall shall keep meat for
sale at any meat stall or exhibit meat for sale or store meat.
10. Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats,
rats or insects.
11. Except instruments and containers used for storage or
processing or sale of meat no other goods or clothes or mats
used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the
licensed stall.
12. Action shall be taken to keep drinking water in sufficient
quantities for the use of employees serving in the licensed
premises.
13. (a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation
of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been
recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such
a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or
let anybody else engage in any form of sale or as an
assistant of any person engaged in sale at any meat
stall.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all
employees deployed at the meat stall to a medical test
at lease once a year.
14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty at the meat stall.
15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap
fluid for the use of all persons employed at the licensed
premises.
16. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of meat kept for sale or
displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any meat
stall, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.
17. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed
premises are recycled, action shall be taken to categorize
the waste material under the categories. -
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene
and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the
production process or by products or other parts
produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they
are put in separate containers or tanks put in place
for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having
being categorized in the manner set out in paragraph (a)
above is disposed of under the programme of waste
management launched by the Urban Council the final
disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the
Chairman.
18. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the
By-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an Authorized
Officer shall mean any occasion meat sales are done at the
meat-stall.
19. In the event of the premises where sale of meat is carried on
under a licence issued under the By-laws of this part fails to
maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set
out in By-law, No. 3 or contravenes the provisions of any
By-law of the By-laws set out in this part the Chairman
shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding
him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said
premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
20. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law, No.
19 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1550
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
21. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law
No. 20 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out in
the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date
extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the
licence issued to that premises.
PART VII
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO AERATED WATER MANUFACTORIES
1. By-laws in this Part are cited as the by-laws in relating to
Regularize, supervise and control the manufactories of
Aerated Water within the area of authority of the Urban
Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
a soft drink manufacturing factory.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the by-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any
manufacturer of soft drinks.
(1) The premises of the factory shall be maintained in
proper maintaining condition;
(2) Every building of the factory shall have good
ventilation and light. While every room shall have been
fixed with windows that could be opened the area of
the open windows shall not be less than one fifteenth
of the floor area of the room;
(3) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms
shall not be less than 2.14 meters the walls shall have
been plastered with mortar and the insides applied
with paints, in the event of their being built with bricks,
cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise when the
walls have been built in wood together with aluminium
or any other metal surfaces of the planks shall have
been painted on their surface ;
(4) While the roof shall have been built using solid
materials the eaves shall be at a height of at least 2
meters from the floor level and the reservation for the
eaves shall be at least one meter in width ;
(5) The surfaces of iron, other metals or timber used for
the roof shall be applied with oil colours or paints ;
(6) The floor space shall be finished off with cement or
tiled ;
(7) A sufficient drainage system to drain off waste water
flowing from rooms manufacturing soft drinks from
washing empty bottles and from bathrooms of the
employees shall be put in place ;
(8) While at least one room shall be reserved for storing
types of syrup, other chemicals, bottles used to can
soft drinks or other kinds of packing materials,
sufficient safety measures shall be put in place to
maintain the room devoid of rat and other insects ;
(9) While a quality certificate issued by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board on the suitability of the
water used for the manufacture of soft drinks for human
consumption shall have been obtained this quality
certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six
months. In the event of the water being supplied by
the National Water Supply and Drainage Board is used
for the manufacture of soft drinks it shall be presumed
that this certificate has been obtained ;
(10) In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft
drinks and activities connected therewith being kept
in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent
pollution of water stored shall be put in place ;
(11) While the premises used for the washing of empty
bottles shall be located separate from the rooms
manufacturing soft drinks only water issued with a
quality certificate mentioned in paragraph (9) above
shall be used for such activities ;
(12) Separate containers or tanks shall be kept to
accommodate waste material generated due to the
activities of the soft drinks manufacture, in the manner
set out in by-law No. 14.
(13) While the employees of the factory shall be allocated
lavatories in the proportion of at least one for each
group of ten employees, separate lavatories shall be
set aside for males and females. Moreover, such
lavatories shall be located at least 15 meters away
from the rooms manufacturing soft drinks.
(14) Action shall be taken not to locate a suction pit, or
fertilizer pit or ash pit less than 18 meters away from
a room where soft drinks are manufactured or from a
place where water used for the manufacture of soft
drinks is being stored in the event of such water being
stored in an underground water tank.
5. Areas of the building which are required to be painted in the
manner set out in paragraphs (3) and (5) of by-law No. 4
shall be painted at least once a year.
6. The floor of every room used for the manufacture of soft
drinks shall be washed at least once every day.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1551
7. Every room used for the manufacture of soft drinks and its
environment, drains, furniture and instruments shall be kept
in proper maintaining condition.
8. When cleaning bottles used to can soft drinks manufactured
in a soft drink factory, a minimum of two tanks, viz,
(a) one tank for the removal of labels previously fixed in the
bottles and for the initial cleaning, and
(b) the other tank for the final cleaning of those bottles,
shall be used and the final cleaning shall be effected
utilizing flowing water.
9. When any other kind or kinds of bottles other than those
made of glass are utilized to can soft drinks these bottles
shall be used only once and it is the duty of the licensee to
ensure that they are produced from hygienically materials.
In this matter a written certificate issued by the producer of
packing materials or the Regional Director of Health Services
is considered sufficient.
10. Unless the date of expiry of the syrups and other chemicals
used in the manufacture of soft drinks falls at a sufficient
date in future, those materials shall not be used for the
manufacture of soft drinks at any time.
11. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of
a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed
no person suffering from such disease or had contacted
such a disease in the recent past or had been recently
nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease
shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody
else engage in service in a soft drinks manufacturing
factory or as an assistant of any person engaged in service
at such a factory.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ anybody
else in any duty at a soft drink manufacturing factory.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees
deployed at the soft drinks manufacturing factory to a
medical test at least once a year.
12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty at the soft drinks manufacturing
factory.
13. While non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used
to store syrup and other types of chemicals used in the
manufacture of soft drinks, these materials shall not be kept
outside the stores unless they are kept in the soft drink
manufacturing room for the manufacture of soft drinks.
14. (a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed
premises are recycled, action shall be taken to categorize
the waste material under the categories. -
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the
production process or by products or other parts
produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having
being categorized in the manner set out in paragraph (a)
above is disposed of under the programme of waste
management launched by the Urban Council the final
disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the
Chairman.
15. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the
by-laws in  this part by the Chairman or by an Authorized
Officer shall mean any occasion when manufacturing activities
are in progress.
16. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of soft drink
manufactured at any soft drinks manufacturing factory or
kept for sale, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.
17. In the event of the premises where a soft drinks manufacturing
factory is maintained under a licence issued under the by-
laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with any
one of the provisions set out in by-law No. 4 or contravenes
the provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set out in this
part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the
said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary
conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
18. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law No.
17 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
19. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned In by-
law No. 18 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out
in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the
date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
the licence issued to that premises.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1552
20. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“soft drinks” means types of drinks manufactured using one
type or all types of fruits, essence and syrups, and
canned in bottles or any other receptacle, and it shall
also include soda water.
PART VIII
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO HAIR DRESSING SALOONS, BARBER SHOPS AND
BEAUTY CENTRES
1. By-laws in this Part are cited as the by-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control Hair Dressing Saloons,
Barber Shops and Beauty Centres within the area of authority
of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop or a Beauty Centre.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the by-laws in this part.
4. ( a) Unless the following conditions in the paragraphs (b)
and (c) of the by-laws of this part are fulfilled the
Chairman shall not issue a licence to maintain any Hair
Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop or Beauty Centre.
(b) The building or the part of the building expected to
maintain the Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop or a
Beauty Centre shall-
(i) be strongly built and sufficient space shall have
been allocated in the proportion of the number of
customers expected to be served simultaneously,
on the basis of at least an area of 1.5 square meters
for a single customer ;
(ii) provide sufficient sitting space to any customer
arriving at the premises expecting service on the
basis of at least 1.5 meters away from the place
where the customer getting service is located ;
(iii) have the inner walls been built using strong materials
and have been painted as well ;
(iv) have the roof been built using timber or other strong
material and it shall also contain a ceiling at least
2.25 meters above the ground level. Moreover the
ceiling shall have been painted white ;
(v) have the floor of the building shall have been finished
off with cement or tiled and the place where the
wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to
facilitate cleaning ;
(vi) have windows not below one fifteenth of the floor
area of the premises with sufficient light been
allowed into the building when the building is not
supplied with air-conditioning ;
(vii) have been supplied with sufficient electric light
when the building is air-conditioned ;
(viii) have wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to
drain waste water if water is used in providing
services to customers ;
(ix) have drains to drain waste water to a suction pit in
order to prevent such water flowing into a public
waterway ;
(x) provide water sealed lavatory facilities in the
buildings or in the premises ;
(xi) not be used as a residence and it shall be separate
from the buildings used as a residence.
(c) The hair dressing centres, barber saloons or beauty centres
shall be supplied with —
(i) sufficient water supply during the entire period
when they are opened for the customers ;
(ii) facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism
and a sufficient number of utensils used in
sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and
utensils used ;
(iii) wash basins with facilities to wash hands and soap
or liquid soap for the use of employees providing
services ;
(iv) a sufficient number of towels and aprons in light
colours but not in dark colours for the use of the
customers ;
(v) a movable receptacle with a tight lid to collect cut
hair and other waste ;
(vi) at least one each of safety plugs fixed to each table
in the event of electrically controlled instruments
are used ;
(vii) a first aid box containing sufficient amount of first
aid instruments and drugs as prescribed by the
Regional Director of Health Services.
5. All persons employed in each centre licensed under the by-
laws in this part shall have been provided with first aid
training and first aid rehearsal at least once a year in the
manner recommended by the Regional Director of Health
Services.
6. The places in the licensed premises where it is required to
be applied with paints in accordance with provisions in
paragraph (b) of By-law No. 4, by all those who have
obtained licences under the by-laws in this part, shall have
been applied with paints at least once a year.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1553
7. All those who have obtained licences under the by-laws in
this part shall wash the floor of the licensed premises with
disinfectants at least once in three months.
8. While the interior of a premises issued with a licence under
the by-laws in this part shall not be used in the night or in
the day time as a place for sleeping or eating meals, nobody
else shall be allowed to do so.
9. The interior of a premises issued with a licence under the
by-laws in this part shall not be used for cooking food or
selling food or for exhibiting food for sale.
 10. (a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation
of an infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been
recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a
disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let
anybody else engage in any form of sale or as an
assistant of any person engaged in sale at any meat
stall.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees
deployed at the meat stall to a medical test at lease
once a year.
11. After extending services to any customer suffering from any
kind of infectious or contagious or skin disease or who have
recently attended on a person suffering from such a
disease —
(a) action shall be taken not to serve or to allow anybody
else to serve any other customer unless such person
who extended service cleans his hands using any kind
of disinfectant ;
(b) action shall be taken not to use or to allow anybody
else to use any kind of instrument used in respect of
that customer unless it has been sterilized and unless
the towels and aprons used have been washed using
disinfectants and soap.
12. It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of
the licensed centre —
(a) engage in their service daily only after a bath or body
wash ;
(b) maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition;
(c) keep their nails cut and without any dirt, and
(d) wash their hands with soap before serving each
customer.
13. The licensee shall ensure that the,
(a) instruments used in the licensed centre are sterilized
after each use ;
(b) brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well
before use on each day ;
(c) receptacles, cups and soap brushes are washed in hot
water after each use.
14. The licensee shall ensure —
(a) that cut hair and other waste material removed after
cutting hair and beard of each customer obtaining service
at the licensed centre are put into a receptacle having
being collected by sweeping or through electrically
operated mechanism ; and
(b) that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable
blades is changed, after each hair cut.
15. It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the
receptacle containing pieces of cut hair are dumped in a pit
at least one meter below the ground level at the end of daily
activities or if necessary a number of times each day.
Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure that
precautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or
scattering of cut hair disposed of.
16. In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair
and other waste in the manner set out in By-law No. 15
action shall be taken to hand over such waste to an Urban
Council scavenging vehicle in the manner prescribed under
the waste management programme of the Urban Council.
17. It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and
disinfecting of the receptacle used to collect waste material
produced at the licensed centre.
18. The use of,
(a) any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance,
or
(b) alum or any other substance in any other form rather
than as a powder or a liquid, in respect of any customer
shall not be made or allowed.
19. The licensee in any licensed centre shall not use an apron
which is not washed or any towel that is not one used for
the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.
20. Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained
no other activity shall be pursued in a licensed premises
other than those prescribed in the licence issued under the
provisions of the by-laws in this part.
21. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of
the by-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an Authorized
Officer shall mean any occasion when service is being
provided to the customers at the premises.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1554
22. In the event of the premises issued with a license under the
by-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with
any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 4 or
contravenes the provisions of any by-law of the by-laws
set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the
prescribed position before a specified date.
23. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No.
22 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said
notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be
more than four days.
24. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in
By-law No. 23 fails to act in accordance with the manner set
out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or
the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to
cancel the licence issued to that premises.
25. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“apron” means any cloth used for covering the upper part of
the body of a customer obtaining service from the
licensed centre.
PART IX
B
Y-LAWS  RELATING  TO  BAKERIES
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the by-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the Bakeries within the
area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall
maintain Bakery in the Urban Council area.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the by-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a license to any
Bakery :-
(a) The conditions in this part shall have been fulfilled
irrespective of the medium in which heat is obtained
for food produced in the Bakery –
(i) The Bakery shall be in proper maintaining
condition;
(ii) Every room in the Bakery shall have windows
that could be opened to the outside. The area of
the opened windows shall not be less than one
fifteenth the area of the floor of the room;
(iii) Every room shall have ceilings fixed and the
ceiling shall have been painted in white;
(iv) The floor of every room shall have been
finished with cement or tiled;
(v) While the room in which the oven of the Bakery
is located shall be at least in a height of 3 meters
from the ground level of the room, it shall be
built in bricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks
with both sides of the walls being plastered
and applied with paints;
(vi) Every room in the Bakery other than the room
where the oven is located shall be in a height of
at least 2.75 meters from the floor level to the
ceiling level, and they shall be built in bricks or
cement blocks or cabook blocks or aluminium
or timber with both sides of the walls being
plastered and applied with paints;
(vii) All fittings in the Bakery made of wood shall
have been applied with paints;
(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any
solid material the end of eaves shall be at least
1.8 meters above the floor level and the
reservation for the eaves shall be at least 1 meter
in width;
(ix) Arrangements shall have been made to use
potable water for production purposes;
(x) While a supply of safe water shall have been
provided through pipes to every room using
water in the production process, action shall
have been taken to provide a drainage system
sufficient to allow the flow of waste water;
(xi) W aste water disposed of shall be allowed to
flow into a suction pit;
(xii) W aste disposal programme shall have been put
in place in the manner prescribed in By-law
No. 8,
(b) When the Bakery requesting a licence is one using
wood,
(i) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of
the Bakery shall have been built at a height of
at least 7.5 meters above the ground level;
(ii) while the surfaces of all the tables used for
kneading flour shall have been made smooth
the joints shall have been joined leaving no
spaces between the joints. Otherwise they shall

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1555
be covered with stainless metal sheets with no
joints;
(iii) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of
ash and remnants of wood removed from the
oven of the Bakery shall be supplied;
(iv) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery
shall be painted or applied with lime;
(v) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been
provided, electrical fire fighting instruments
shall have been supplied if electricity facilities
have been obtained for the Bakery;
(c) When the Bakery requesting a licence is using
electricity —
(i) While the electric plugs connecting electricity
to bakery equipment shall be in a safe condition,
trip switches automatically functioning during
high voltage and leaks in electricity shall have
been fixed;
(ii) While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed
within the bakery premises shall be drawn
through pipes or boxes without leakages of
electricity, there shall not be ends of electric
cables open to the outside;
(iii) Ordinary fire fighting equipment and electric
fire extinguishers shall have been provided;
5. All spaces prescribed in by-law, to have been applied with
paints shall be so applied with paints at least once a year.
6. The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be
washed at least once every day.
7. The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and
equipment shall be kept in proper maintaining condition.
8. Unless the date of expiry of flour and other materials used in
the manufacture of bakery products are at a sufficient date in
future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture
of bakery products at any time.
 9. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of
an infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed
no person suffering from such disease or had contacted
such a disease in the recent past or had been recently
nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease
shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody
else engage in any licensed premises or as an assistant
of any person engaged at any licensed premises.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of sale at any licensed premise.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees
deployed at the licensed premises to a medical test at
least once a year.
10. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty at the licensed premises.
11. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed
premises are recycled, action shall be taken to categorize
the waste material under the categories —
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in
the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the
programme of waste management launched by the
Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
12. Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be
used for any bakery products.
13. While a separate room exclusively used for the storage of
flour and other materials used in the bakery shall be
maintained it shall be sufficiently ventilated and secured
against entry of flies or other insects and rats.
14. When storing flour in the store room mentioned in by-law
No. 13 a rack made of timber on a stand at a height of 20
centimetres from the floor level shall be used and the
particular rack shall have been finished so as to facilitate its
movement from place to place when empty. Moreover,
while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prevent
rats and other kinds of insects remaining underneath it, the
structure shall be placed at least 23 centimetres away from
the wall.
15. It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned
in by-law No. 14 are taken out and cleaned at least twice a
month.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1556
16. While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the
provisions of the by-laws in this part, action shall be taken
not to keep or store any other material other than the
instruments or materials used for the functions of the bakery.
However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the
employees of the bakery shall not be included to this.
17. While the employees of the factory shall be allocated
lavatories in the proportion of at least one for each group of
ten employees, separate lavatories shall be set aside for
males and females. Moreover, such lavatories shall be located
at least 15 meters away from the rooms manufacturing soft
drinks.
18. Action shall be taken not to locate a suction pit, or fertilizer
pit or ash pit less than 18 meters away from a room where
soft drinks are manufactured or from a place where water
used for the manufacture of soft drinks is being stored in the
event of such water being stored in an underground water
tank.
19. All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure
water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and soap or fluid
soap.
20. No person shall smoke, chew betel or chew any other
material or partake of food inside the bakery.
21. It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale
with standard weights or any other type of standard scale at
a clearly visible place in all the premises licensed under the
provisions of the by-laws in this part and to take action to
weigh at the request of any customer the weight of any
bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.
22. In the event of the delivery of bakery products of any bakery
by the licensee himself it shall be the duty of the licensee to
utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or
other kinds of waste material or water.
23. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of
the by-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an Authorized
Officer shall mean any occasion when production is carried
out.
24. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of bakery product kept
for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of
any bakery, no licensee shall desist or prevent such
purchase.
25. In the event of the premises where bakery products are
produced is carried on under a licence issued under the
by-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with
any one of the provisions set out in by-law No. 4 or
contravenes the provisions of any by-law of the by-laws
set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the
prescribed position before a specified date.
26. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law No.
25 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said
notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be
more than four days.
27. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in
by-law No. 26 fails to act in accordance with the manner set
out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or
the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to
cancel the licence issued to that premises.
28. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Bakery” means a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits
or any other kind of sweets are manufactured and it
shall also include any place where such food is
prepared or where goods are stored for the preparation
of such food ;
“Bakery products” means bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any
other kind of sweets manufactured in any bakery for
sale or on an order placed by any person.
PART X
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO DAIRIES
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the by-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the dairies maintained within
the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
a diary in the area of authority of the Urban Council.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the by-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any
dairy.
(a) Sufficient buildings shall have been constructed to
keep in hold the animals of the dairy in the proportion
of at least 3 square meters for each animal ;
(b) The height of the walls of the buildings keeping the
animals shall not exceed one meter and while the walls
shall be built with bricks, or cement blocks or cabook

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1557
blocks and plastered with cement, both sides of the
wall shall be finished off in cement.
(c) While the poles constructed from the upper end of the
walls to the roof of the buildings keeping the animals
shall have been built in solid wood or iron or concrete,
the upper end of the poles shall be at a height of at
least 2.3 meters above the floor level and the poles
shall be applied with paints.
(d) While the roof of the buildings keeping the animals
shall have been constructed in any solid material the
end of the roof shall be at a height of at least 2.3
meters from the ground level.
(e) The floor of the buildings keeping the animals shall be
cemented.
(f) The buildings keeping the animals shall be in proper
maintaining condition.
(g) Sufficient unpolluted water shall be provided for the
drinking purposes of the animals of the dairy, for
washing animals and to wash the buildings.
(h) Drains constructed with cement or concrete shall be
provided so as to facilitate flow of water disposed
after washing the animals, water disposed after washing
the buildings keeping the animals, urine and faeces to
a suction pit.
(i) While a separate place shall be set apart to dispose of
faeces of the animals and left over grass and other food
this place shall be located at least 10 meters away
from the buildings keeping the animals and the milking
room. Moreover this location shall be at a distance of
at least 10 meters away from a public waterway or
any well used for drawing water.
(j) The milking place and the place where milk is stored
temporarily shall be located at a distance of at least 6
meters away from the place where the animals are
kept.
(k) The building where milking is done shall have been
built with bricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks
and plastered with cement on both sides. While the
height of the walls shall be at least 1.2 meters and the
pillars built from the upper end of the wall to the roof
shall be built in strong timber or iron or concrete, the
pillar shall be applied with paints.
(l) While the floor of the building where milking is done
shall be cemented the places where the floor meets the
wall shall be in a circular shape. Moreover, the end of
the eaves of the building shall be at least 1.8 meters
above the ground level.
(m) While there shall be a table in the building where milking
is done the surface of the table shall be fixed with tiles
or joint less stainless metal sheet or impervious
material.
(n) A hygienic waste disposal container shall be available
at the place where milking is done.
(o) The building where milking is done shall be located at
a distance of at least 10 meters away from any lavatory,
waste pit, fertilizer heap or fertilizer pit or open drain
carrying waste.
(p) While a separate building shall have been constructed
to keep the sick animals at a distance of at least 20
meters away from the building keeping the animals
this building shall have been constructed in accordance
with provisions made in respect of the building keeping
the animals.
(q) The drains shall have been created so as to prevent the
flow of waste water from the building where sick
animals are kept towards the building keeping the
other animals.
(r) If milking is done mechanically instruments needed
for daily sterilization of the machines and the
containers collecting milk shall be provided.
5. All spaces prescribed in by-law, to have been applied with
paints shall be so applied with paints at least once a year.
6. The floor and the walls of the buildings keeping the healthy
as well as the sick animals shall be washed at least once
every day.
7. The dairy and its environment, drains, furniture and
equipment shall be kept in proper maintaining condition.
 8. (a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a
infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed no
person suffering from such disease or had contacted such
a disease in the recent past or had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage
himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage in
any licensed premises or as an assistant of any person
engaged in any licensed premises.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ anybody
else in any licensed premises.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees
engaged at the licensed premises to a medical test at least
once a year.
9. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty at the dairy and that they take a
thorough body wash before they engage in milking activities.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1558
10. The buildings keeping the animals and the floor and surfaces
of tables in the milking room shall be washed at least once
every day.
11. While receptacles used in milking, storing of milk and
transport of milk shall be those made of fine clay, galvanized
iron or tin, enamel crated iron, smoothed aluminium, glass,
porcelain or any other material, these receptacles shall not
be kept in the building keeping the animals.
12. While it is the duty of the licensee to ensure sterilization of
all receptacles used at the licensed centre and the
instruments used in mechanical milking if it is done so, at
least once every day he shall take action to clean the other
receptacles and instruments daily.
13. While faeces and left over grass collected at the places where
animals are kept shall be disposed of at least once every
day these places shall be washed with water every day.
14. The receptacles being used at the licensed centre shall not
be used for any other purpose than those prescribed.
15. Before commencement of milking activities it shall not be
allowed to do so unless -
(i) the udder of any cow has been washed with water ;
(ii) the person milking the cow has washed both hands
with soap or soap fluid ;
(iii) the mechanical instruments used in milking have been
sterilized, if milking is done mechanically.
16. It is the duty of the licensee to refer at least thrice a year all
the animals bred in the dairy to the Veterinary Surgeon or to
any representative named by him and obtain necessary
medical advice and to act accordingly.
17. As soon as it is known that any animal in the Dairy has
contacted any disease, it is the duty of the licensee to take
action to separate the said sick animals from the building
where they are kept and keep them in the building where
sick are kept and to keep the Veterinary Surgeon aware of
it.
18. Milk determined by the Veterinary Surgeon as that of an
animal suffering from tuberculosis in the udder or in any
other place, acute mastitis, foot and mouth disease, anthrax
or actinomycosis in the udder or brucellosis, shall not be
sold or allowed to be sold, or mixed with milk of other
animals available for human consumption.
19. All animal food other than grass and hay available at the
licensed premises shall be kept in suitable receptacles so as
to prevent entry of  rats.
20. The milk room shall not be used or allowed to be used for
any other purpose other than that of storing and processing
of milk.
21. No person shall dilute milk by adding water or any other
foreign matter.
   22. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the
licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken
to categorize the waste material under the categories.
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron
and other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of
in the production process or by products or
other parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the
programme of waste management launched by the
Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
(c) Notwithstanding anything stated in paragraph (b) the
said provision shall not be an obstacle to make use of
animal faeces and remnants of grass being categorized
as bio-degradable waste in sub-paragraph (i) in
paragraph (b) as fertilizer. However, in the event of
such garbage being transported out of the dairy, they
shall not be transported unless they are covered while
being transported out of the dairy.
23. While a separate room shall be made available to store milk
collected at the dairy the room shall be properly ventilated
and secured so as to prevent entry of flies or other types of
insects and rats.
24. While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the
provisions of the by-laws in this part, action shall be taken
not to keep or store any other material other than the
instruments or materials used for the functions of the dairy.
However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the
employees of the dairy shall not be included to this.
25. While the employees of the dairy shall be allocated lavatories
in the proportion of at least one for each group of ten
employees, separate lavatories shall be set aside for males
and females. Moreover, such lavatories shall be located at
least 15 meters away from the buildings where animals are
kept, milk is drawn and milk is stored.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1559
26 Action shall be taken not to locate a suction pit, or fertilizer
pit or ash pit less than 18 meters away from the building
where water is being stored in the event of such water being
stored in an underground water tank.
27. All employees of the dairy shall be supplied with pure
water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and soap or fluid
soap.
28. Unless milk obtained from any dairy is collected in covered
containers so as to prevent pollution by dust or other types
of waste material such milk shall not be transported out of
the licensed premises.
29. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of
the by-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an Authorized
Officer shall mean any occasion fish sales are done at the
fish-stall.
30. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of dairy product kept
for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of
any dairy, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.
31. In the event of the premises where sale of dairy products is
carried on under a licence issued under the by-laws of this
part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the
provisions set out in by-law No. 4 or contravenes the
provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set out in this part
the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said
licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions
to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before
a specified date.
32. Any license in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law No.
31 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
33. When any license in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law
No. 32 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out in
the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date
extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the
licence issued to that premises.
34. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Animal” means animals belonging to any kind of cattle,
sheep and goats ;
“Dairy” means the building and the premises where animals
of a particular kind or a number of kinds are kept with
a view to mainly implementing the function of
obtaining milk and  selling milk, and it shall include the
said animals to.
“Veterinary Surgeon” means the Veterinary Surgeon of the
Urban Council or when no any Veterinary Surgeon in
Urban Council any officer appointed as Veterinary
Surgeon by Ministry of Health Services on behalf of
the area of the Urban Council shall also include.
PART XI
B
Y-LAWS RELA TING TO SWIMMING POOLS
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the establishment and
maintenance of swimming pools within the area of authority
of the Urban council.
    2. ( a) Provided that a valid licence issued By the Chairman
for the particular function has been obtained no person
shall maintain a swimming pool within the Urban
Council area.
(b) Notwithstanding anything set out in paragraph (a),
while a period of 4 months from the date the by-laws
of this part come into effect would be given to obtain a
license to maintain a swimming pool constructed within
the area of authority of the Urban Council the swimming
pool shall not be maintained after the elapse of that
period without obtaining a licence.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the by-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any
swimming pool.
(a) shower-roses shall be provided for a pre-bath before
swimming in the pool ;
(b) sufficient provisions shall have been made to supply
water made available for pre-baths at the swimming
pool according to the standards prescribed by the
Regional Director of Health Services;
(c) necessary arrangements shall have been put in place
to use sufficient disinfectants for supplies of water
mentioned in paragraph (b) ;
(d) with a view to purifying and disinfecting the entire
water capacity in the said swimming pool twice within
a period of twenty four hours, a set of strainers with
pumps circulating water shall have been fixed ;
(e) the depth of the swimming pool shall be clearly
marked on the platform of the swimming pool ;
(f) a hand-rail and a ladder each made of stainless steel
shall have been fixed to enter into the swimming pool
and get out of it at a distance of at least 8 meters all
around the Swimming Pool ;

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1560
(g) the swimming pool shall be fixed with distinctive
coloured tiles so that the bottom as well as the walls
of the pool are clearly visible after it has been filled
with water ;
(h) if children under twelve years are allowed to swim in
the pool, a separate section with a depth of not more
than one meter shall have been constructed for such
purposes.
(i) if towers have been constructed to facilitate diving
into the swimming pool they shall have been
constructed in concrete and a strong ladder built in
iron or steel shall have been fixed ;
(j) a sufficient programme of life saving and first-aid shall
have been put in place ;
(k) separate dressing rooms and lavatories shall be made
available to males and females using the swimming
pool  ;
(l) if swimming is allowed after 6.30 p.m., sufficient
electric light shall be made available to the interior as
well as the exterior of the pool site ;
5. While a programme prescribed by the Regional Director  of
Health Services shall have been put in place for disinfecting
the water filled in the swimming pool instruments
recommended by him shall also be made available.
6. The floor and the walls of the lavatories and the places where
shower roses have been provided for pre-baths shall be tiled.
7. In respect of every swimming pool -
(a) the enclosed areas shall be maintained in proper
maintaining condition ;
(b) a drainage system to allow free flow of water used in
lavatories and bathing spots shall be made available ;
(c) the waste materials deposited in the bottom shall be
disposed of at least once daily ;
(d) the entire water capacity of the swimming pool shall
be purified and disinfected at least twice a day ;
(e) the use of the swimming pool by the customers without
taking a pre-bath and without wearing a swimming suit
shall not be resorted to by anyone.
8. When the Regional Director of Health Services has decided
that any type of epidemic or infection has gripped the area
where the swimming pool is located or in its neighbourhood,
the Chairman shall have the power to order the closure of the
swimming pool.
9. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the By-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when anybody is allowed
to use the swimming pool.
10. In the event of the premises where a swimming pool is
established under a license issued under the By-laws of this
part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the
provisions set out in By-law No. 4 or contravenes the
provisions of any provision of the By-laws set out in this
part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the
said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary
conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
11. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No.
10 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
12. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in  By-
law No. 11 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out
in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the
date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
the licensee issued to that premises.
13. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the
licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken
to categorize the waste material under the categories.
-
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in
the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the
programme of waste management launched by the
Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1561
14. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Swimming pool” means any pool of water constructed for
swimming as an exercise or as a pastime or for practice
by any outsider for fees or free of charge.
PART XII
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO ICE FACTORIES
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the ice factories maintained
within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
an ice factory within the Urban Council area.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any ice
factory:
(a) The premises shall be kept in proper maintaining
condition ;
(b) Every building of the factory shall have good ventilation
and light. While every room shall have been fixed with
windows that could be opened the area of the open
windows shall not be less then one fifteenth of the
floor area of the room ;
(c) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms
shall not be less than 2.14 meters the walls shall have
been plastered with mortar and the insides applied
with paints, in the event of their being built with bricks,
cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise when the
walls have been built in wood together with aluminium
or any other metal surfaces of the planks shall have
been painted on their surface ;
(d) While the roof shall have been built using solid materials
the eaves shall be at a height of at least 2 meters from
the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall
be at least one meter in width ;
(e) The surfaces of iron, other metals or timber used for
the roof shall be applied with oil colours or paints ;
(f) The floor space shall be finished off with cement or
tiled ;
(g) A sufficient drainage system to drain off waste water
flowing from rooms manufacturing ice from washing
empty bottles and from bathrooms of the employees
shall be put in place ;
(h) While at least one room shall be reserved for storing
types of syrup, other chemicals, bottles used to can
soft drinks or other kinds of packing materials,
sufficient safety measures shall be put in place to
maintain the room devoid of rat and other insects ;
(i) While a quality certificate issued by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board on the suitability of the
water used for the manufacture of soft drinks for human
consumption shall have been obtained this quality
certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six
months. In the event of the water being supplied by
the National Water Supply and Drainage Board is used
for the manufacture of soft drinks it shall be presumed
that this certificate has been obtained ;
(j) In the event of water used in the manufacture of ice
and activities connected therewith being kept in storage
sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of water
stored shall be put in place ;
(k) Action shall have been taken to dispose of waste
produced in the licensed premises in the manner set
out in By-law No. 11
(l) A sufficient suction pit shall have been prepared in
order to dispose of waste water generated at the
factory.
(m) Any lavatory, waste pit or open waste drain or suction
pit constructed at the licensed premises shall not be
located at a distance of at least below 16 meters from
the room where ice is produced and the place where
ice produced is issued to customers.
(n) While a separate room or a site shall have been made
available to store fuels action shall not be taken to
take fuel through the rooms storing ice and issuing ice
to customers.
(o) General fire fighting instruments and electr
5. Every space where paints need to be applied as set out in
By-law No. 4 shall be applied with paints at least once a
year.
6. The places where ice is produced and ice is issued to
customers shall have been washed at least once a day.
7. The entire licensed site and the instruments used shall be
cleaned every day and maintained in proper maintaining
condition.
8. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of
a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed
no person suffering from such disease or had contacted
such a disease in the recent past or had been recently
nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease
shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody
else engage in service in a licensed premises or as an

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1562
assistant of any person engaged in service at such a
premises.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ anybody
else in any duty at a licensed premise.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all
employees engaged at the licensed premises to a
medical test at least once a year.
9. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty at the ice factory.
10. While non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used
to store. Chemicals used in the manufacture of ice, these
materials shall not be kept outside the stores unless they are
kept in the ice manufacturing room for the manufacture of
ice.
11. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the
licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken
to categorize the waste material under the categories.
-
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in
the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(b) Arrangements shall be made to allow free flow of waste
water discharged from the licensed premises to a
suction pit.
(c) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the programme
of waste management launched by the Urban Council
the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman.
12. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the By-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when ice is manufactured
in the factory or when ice is issued to customers.
13. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of ice manufactured or displayed for
sale inside the premises of any ice factory, no licensee shall
desist or prevent such purchase.
14. In the event of the premises where ice is manufactured under
a license issued under the By-laws of this part fails to maintain
it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in
By-law No. 4 or contravenes the provisions of any provision
of the  By-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take
action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to
accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises
to the prescribed position before a specified date.
15. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No.
14 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
16. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-
law No. 15 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out
in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the
date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
the licence issued to that premises.
17. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“ice Factory” means a factory where water is caused to
solidify mechanically on a commercial basis for
consumption.
PART XIII
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO EA TING HOUSES, RESTAURANTS AND TEA OR
COFFEE SHOPS
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the by-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control maintenance of eating
houses, restaurants and tea or coffee shops within the area
of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
an eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop in the
Urban Council Area.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it was cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a license to any
eating place, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop:—

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1563
(1) The premises shall be kept in proper maintaining
condition ;
(2) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms
shall not be less than 2.5 meters, both sides of the
walls shall have been plastered with mortar and
applied with paints, in the event of their being built
with bricks, cement blocks or cabook blocks.
Otherwise when the walls have been built in wood
together with aluminium or any other metal the planks
shall have been painted on their surface ;
(3) While every room of the premises shall be fixed with
a ceiling, it shall be at a height of not less than 2.5
meters from the ground level;
(4) Every room shall have windows that could be opened
to the outside. The area of the opened windows shall
not be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of
the room. However, where any room is air
conditioned, this provision shall not apply;
(5) The roof shall be made of some solid material;
(6) The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the
floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at
least 1.5 meters in width.
(7) The floor of every room shall have been finished with
cement or tiled;
(8) While dust bins shall be placed to collect waste
generated in the site the dust bins kept at the kitchen
shall have lids to keep them closed so as to prevent
entry of flies or other kinds of insects;
(9) Necessary arrangements to comply with the
requirements set out in By-law No. 11 shall have
been put in place in order to dispose of waste produced
in the premises;
(10) Every table made use of at the kitchen of the
premises —
(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with
paints when they are built in wood, and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets;
(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made
of iron, steel or any other type of metal and the
top surface of the tables shall have been covered
with polished, non-opaque materials or stainless
and joint less metal sheets;
(11) Every table made available for use by the customers
of the premises —
(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with
paints when they are built in wood, and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets;
(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made of
iron, steel or any other type of metal and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets;
(12) While a quality certificate issued by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board on the suitability of the
water used in premises for human consumption shall
have been obtained this quality certificate shall be
obtained at least once in every six months. In  the
event of the water being supplied by the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board is used at the
premises the manufacture of  soft drinks it shall be
presumed that this certificate has been obtained ;
(13) In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft
drinks and activities of the premises being kept in
storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution
of water stored shall be put in place ;
(14) A separate section shall be maintained in the premises
to wash utensils used by the customers;
(15) Separate lavatories and urinals shall have been provided
for the use of the employees and the customers on the
basis of one each for every ten males and females;
(16) The walls of every lavatory and urinal shall have been
built with bricks or cement blocks, cabook blocks or
stainless metal sheets and plastered with cement and
finished off with cement or tiled. Moreover, when
there are other walls built with bricks or cement blocks
or cabook blocks they shall be finished off with cement
or tiled and when they are built in stainless metal
sheets, the surfaces shall be painted;
(17) A sufficient number of bath rooms shall have been
built for the use of the persons employed at the
premises and the prescriptions relevant to lavatories
mentioned in Paragraph (15) shall apply to the floors
and walls of these bathrooms.
(18) In the section assigned for the use of the customers of
the premises wash basins made of stainless metal
sheets or made of ceramic clay and polished or made
of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be made
available;
(19) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to
allow free flow of waste water disposed of from any
section of the premises;

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1564
(20) In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a
drainage system arrangement may be made to divert
waste water generated at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban
Council. Otherwise action shall be taken to divert
such waste water to a suction pit;
(21) While general fire fighting instruments shall have been
provided at the site electrically operated fire
extinguishers shall have been made available if
electricity supplies have been obtained to the site;
(22) The section where tea, coffee or milk is prepared shall
have been covered with a stainless metal sheet or with
tiles or with any other type of non-opaque material.
5. It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space
where paints need to be applied as set out in By-law No. 4
shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
6. The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a
day and the drains carrying waste water shall be cleaned and
washed with water at least twice daily.
7. The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be
cleaned at least twice a day and disinfected and maintained
so as to prevent bad smell spreading.
8. Every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparation
of food, for exhibition for sale and for the use of the customers
in the licensed premises shall be washed in clean water before
use and the licensee shall ensure that they are cleanly washed
after use as well.
9. While action shall be taken to categorize all waste collected
in each section of the licensed premises according to the
manner prescribed in By-law No. 11 and to put them
immediately into a receptacle made of non-opaque material,
such waste shall be removed from that site at least once a
day or on a number of occasions if required. These receptacles
shall be securely closed except when waste is put into them
and waste is removed from them.
10. The waste removed from the licensed premises shall not be
dumped at any time on the ground of the site or at various
places around the premises.
11. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the
licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken
to categorize the waste material under the categories:—
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in
the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put
in place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the
programme of waste management launched by the
Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
12. While every licensed premise shall be maintained free of
rats, flies or any other kind of insects it is the duty of the
licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or
beverages kept there and food or beverages prepared are
protected from pollution by the above animals.
13. While food served to the customers shall not be handled by
bare hands, a spoon, fork or any other instrument shall be
used to serve food.
14. Any kind of adulterated milk shall not be kept or sold in any
licensed premises. For the purpose of this by-law adulterated
milk shall mean milk mixed with water or any other kind of
foreign matter or matters or cows milk with less than 85
percent solid milk which is not fat or with less than 35
percent milk fat or buffalo milk with less than 9 percent
solid milk which is not fat or with less than 7 percent milk
fat.
15. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of
an infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed
no person suffering from such disease or had contacted
such a disease in the recent past or had been recently
nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease
shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody
else engage in service in a licensed premises or as an
assistant of any person engaged in service at such a
premises.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of duty at any licensed
premise.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees
engaged at the fish stall to a medical test at least once a
year.
16. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety mouth
covering gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty.
17. All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied
with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and
soap or fluid soap.

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1565
18. No person shall smoke or chew betel leaves within the
licensed premises.
19. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the by-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when production activities
are carried on.
20. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food kept for sale or
displayed for sale in the premises, no licensee shall desist or
prevent such purchase.
21. In the event of the premises where any eating place, restaurant
or a tea or coffee shop is maintained under a licence issued
under the by-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance
with any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 4 or
contravenes the provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set
out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a
notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the
prescribed position before a specified date.
22. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No.
21 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the  notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
23. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-
law No. 22 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out
in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the
date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
the license issued to that premises.
24. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“restaurant or eating house” means a place where cooked
rice and  curries are prepared or stored or exhibited
for sale and it shall also include a place where any
type of prepared food or short eat is prepared or
stored or exhibited for sale ;
“ tea or coffee shop” means any place which is maintained
for sale of tea or coffee with bakery products or
short eats.
PART XIV
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO HOTELS
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the by-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the hotels within the
area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for
the particular function has been obtained no person shall
maintain hotel within the Urban Council area.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws
of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year
for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier
under the provisions of the by-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this
part are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to
any hotel:—
(1) The premises shall be kept in proper maintaining
condition;
(2) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms
shall not be less than 2.5 meters the walls shall have
been plastered with mortar and both sides applied
with paints, in the event of their being built with
bricks, cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise
when the walls have been built in wood together with
aluminium or any other metal the planks shall have
been painted on their surface ;
(3) While every room of the premises shall be fixed with
a ceiling, it shall be at a height of not less than 2.5
meters from the ground level.
(4) Every room shall have windows that could be opened
to the outside. The area of the opened windows shall
not be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of
the room. However, when any room is air-conditioned
this provision shall not apply.
(5) The roof shall be made of some solid material.
(6) The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the
floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at
least 1.5 meters in width.
(7) The floor of every room shall have been finished with
cement or tiled.
(8) While dust bins shall be placed to collect waste
generated in the site the dust bins kept at the kitchen
shall have lids to keep them closed so as to prevent
entry of flies or other kinds of insects.
(9) Necessary arrangements to comply with the
requirements set out in By-law No. 17 shall have been
put in place in order to dispose of waste produced in
the premises.
(10) Every table made use of at the kitchen of the premises-
(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with
paints when they are built in wood, and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished non-opaque materials or stainless and joint
less metal sheets.
(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made of
iron, steel or any other type of metal and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1566
polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets.
(11) Every table made available for use by the customers
of the premises -
(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with
paints when they are built in wood, and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets.
(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made
of iron, steel or any other type of metal and the
top surface of the tables shall have been covered
with polished, non-opaque materials or stainless
and joint less metal sheets.
(12) While a quality certificate issued by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board on the suitability of the
water used in the premises for human consumption
shall have been obtained this quality certificate shall
be obtained at least once in every six months. In the
event of the water being supplied by the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board is used at the
premises it shall be presumed that this certificate has
bee obtained.
(13) In the event of water used in the activities of the
premises being kept in storage sufficient safety
measures to prevent pollution of water stored shall
be put in place.
(14) A separate section shall be maintained in the premises
to wash utensils used by the customers.
(15) Separate lavatories and urinals shall have been
provided for the use of the employees and the
customers on the basis of one each for every ten
males and females.
(16) The walls of every lavatory and urinal shall have
been built with bricks or cement blocks, cabook blocks
or stainless metal sheets and plastered with cement
and finished off with cement or tiled. Moreover, when
there are other walls built with bricks or cement blocks
or cabook blocks they shall be finished off with
cement or tiled and when they are built in stainless
metal sheets, the surfaces shall be painted.
(17) A sufficient number of bath rooms shall have been
built for the use of the persons employed at the
premises and the prescriptions relevant to lavatories
mentioned in paragraph (15) shall apply to the floors
and walls of these bathrooms.
(18) In the section assigned for the use of the customers of
the premises wash basins made of stainless metal
sheets or made of ceramic clay and polished or made
of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be made
available.
(19) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to
allow free flow of waste water disposed of from any
section of the premises.
(20) In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a
drainage system arrangement may be made to divert
waste water generated at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban
Council. Otherwise action shall be taken to divert
such waste water to a suction pit.
(21) While general fire fighting instruments shall have been
provided at the site electrically operated fire
extinguishers shall have been made available if
electricity supplies have been obtained to the site.
(22) The section where tea, coffee or milk is prepared shall
have been covered with a stainless metal sheet or with
tiles or with any other type of non-opaque material.
(23) The space allotted for each person for sleeping in the
bed rooms set apart for the customers and the
employees of the hotel shall not be less than at least
four square meters.
5. It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space
where paints need to be applied as set out in By-law No. 4
shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
6. The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a
day and the drains carrying waste water shall be cleaned and
washed with water at least twice daily.
7. No person shall be allowed to sleep in any other room than
those which have been specifically declared as bed rooms in
the licensed premises.
8. The licensee shall not be allowed to sleep in any bed room, a
number of persons not commensurate with the minimum
space specified in paragraph (23) of By-law No. 4.
9. While every licensed premises shall maintain a register to
note the name, address and identity of each person coming
to stay overnight in the licensed premises, it shall be the
duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that register when
it is so requested by the Chairman, Authorized officer or any
Police Officer.
10. Unless the bed sheets, pillow cases, sheets, towels and any
other clothes used by any customer occupying any bed room
of the licensed premises are washed and cleaned after being
used by him no other customer shall be allowed to use them
and the windows in that room shall have being left fully
open for at least four hours before it is allowed to be used by
any subsequent customer.

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1567
11  It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that every room,
staircase, veranda, drains and the entire area of the licensed
premises are swept before noon everyday.
12. Keeping any type of animal in any bed room, place where
food is prepared or place reserved for partaking food in the
licensed premises shall not be made.
13. The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be
cleaned at least twice a day and disinfected and maintained
so as to prevent bad smell spreading. However, the cleaning
of lavatories once a day in any room where customers are
lodging is considered sufficient.
14. Every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparation
of food, for exhibition for sale and for the use of the customers
in the licensed premises shall be washed in clean water before
use and the licensee shall ensure that they are cleanly washed
after use as well.
15. While action shall be taken to categorize all waste collected
in each section of the licensed premises according to the
manner prescribed in By-law No. 19 and to put them
immediately into a receptacle made of non-opaque material,
such waste shall be removed from that site at least once a day
or on a number of occasions if required. These receptacles
shall be securely closed except when waste is put into them
and waste is removed from them.
16. The waste removed from the licensed premises shall not be
dumped at any time on the ground of the site or at various
places around the premises.
17. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed
premises are recycled, action shall be taken to
categorize the waste material under the categories. -
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in
the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a)  above is disposed of under the
programme of waste management launched by the
Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
18. While every licensed premise shall be maintained free of
rats, flies or any other kind of insects it is the duty of the
licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food
or beverages kept there and food or beverages prepared
are protected from pollution by the above animals.
19. While food served to the customers shall not be handled
by bare hands, a spoon, fork or any other instrument
shall be used to serve food.
20. Any kind of adulterated milk shall not be kept or sold in
any licensed premises. For the purpose of this By-law
adulterated milk shall mean milk mixed with water or any
other kind of foreign matter or matters or cows milk with
less than 85 percent solid milk which is not fat or with
less than 35 percent milk fat or buffalo milk with less
than 9 percent solid milk which is not fat or with less
than 7 percent milk fat.
   21. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation
of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been
recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such
a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or
let anybody else engaged in service in a licensed
premises or as an assistant of any person engaged in
service at such a premises.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any duty at any licensed premises.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all
employees engaged with the licensed premises to a
medical test at least once a year.
22. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety mouth
covering gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty.
23. All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied
with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and
soap or fluid soap.
24. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the By-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when production activities
are carried on.
25. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food kept for sale or
displayed for sale in the premises, no licensee shall desist or
prevent such purchase.

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1568
26. In the event of the premises where a hotel is maintained
under a licence issued under the By-laws of this part fails to
maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set
out in By-law No. 4 or contravenes the provisions of any
by-law of the  By-laws set out in this part the Chairman
shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding
him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said
premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
27. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No.
26 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
28. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-
law No. 17 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out
in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the
date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
the licence issued to that premises.
29. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Hotel” means a place where cooked rice and curries are
prepared or stored or exhibited for sale and it shall
also include a place where any type of prepared
food or short-eat is prepared or stored or exhibited
for sale or any place where customers are allowed
to lodge.
PART XV
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO LODGINGS HOUSES
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control within the area of authority
of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
a lodging house within the Urban Council area.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any
lodging house.
(1) The premises shall be kept in proper maintaining
condition.
(2) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms
shall not be less than 2.5 meters both sides of the
walls shall have been plastered with mortar and
applied with paints, in the event of their being built
with bricks, cement blocks or cabook blocks.
Otherwise when the walls have been built in wood
together with aluminium or any other metal the planks
shall have been painted on their surface ;
(3) While every room of the premises shall be fixed with
a ceiling, it shall be at a height of not less than 2.5
meters from the ground level.
(4) Every room in the licensed premises shall have
windows that could be opened to the outside. The
area of the opened windows shall not be less than one
fifteenth the area of the floor of the room.
However, where any room is air conditioned this
provision shall not apply.
(5) The roof shall be made of some solid material.
(6) The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the
floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at
least 1.5 meters in width.
(7) The floor of every room shall have been finished with
cement or tiled.
(8) While dust bins shall be placed to collect waste
generated in the site the dust bins kept at the kitchen
shall have lids to keep them  closed so as to prevent
entry of flies or other kinds of insects.
(9) Necessary arrangements to comply with the
requirements set out in By-law No. 21 shall have been
put in place in order to dispose of waste produced in
the premises.
(10) Every table made use of at the kitchen of the premises
-
(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with
paints when they are built in wood, and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets.
(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made of
iron, steel or any other type of metal and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets.
(11) Every table made available for use by the customers of
the premises —
(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with
paints when they are built in wood, and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets.

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1569
(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made of
iron, steel or any other type of metal and the top
surface of the tables shall have been covered with
polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and
joint less metal sheets.
(12) While a quality certificate issued by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board on the suitability of the water
used in the premises for human consumption shall have
been obtained this quality certificate shall be obtained at
least once in every six months. In the event of the water
being supplied by the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board is used at the premises it shall be presumed that
this certificate has been obtained ;
(13) In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft
drinks and activities of the premises being kept in storage
sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of water
stored shall be put in place ;
(14) A separate section shall be maintained in the premises to
wash utensils used by the customers.
(15) Separate lavatories and urinals shall have been provided
for the use of the employees and the customers on the
basis of one each for every ten males and females.
(16) The walls of every lavatory and urinal shall have been
built with bricks or cement blocks, cabook blocks or
stainless metal sheets and plastered with cement and
finished off with cement or tiled.Moreover, when there
are other walls built with bricks or cement blocks or
cabook blocks they shall be finished off with cement or
tiled and when they are built in stainless metal sheets, the
surfaces shall be painted.
(17) A sufficient number of bath rooms shall have been built
for the use of the persons employed at the premises and
the prescriptions  relevant to lavatories mentioned in
paragraph (15) shall apply to the floors and walls of
these bathrooms.
(18) In the section assigned for the use of the customers of the
premises wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or
made of ceramic clay and polished or made of bricks or
cement blocks and tiled shall be made available.
(19) A sui table system of drains shall be made available to
allow free flow of waste water disposed of from any
section of the premises.
(20) In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a drainage
system arrangement may be made to divert waste water
generated at the premises to the said drainage system in
the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise
action shall be taken to divert such waste water into a
suction pit.
(21) While general fire fighting instruments shall have been
provided at the site electrically operated fire extinguishers
shall have been made available if electricity supplies have
been obtained to the site.
(22) The section where tea, coffee or milk is prepared shall
have been covered with a stainless metal sheet or with
tiles or with any other type of non-opaque material.
(23) The space allotted for each person for sleeping in the bed
rooms set apart for the customers and the employees of
the hotel shall not be less than at least four square meters.
Meanwhile every bedroom shall be provided with an
almirah or cabinet to keep clothes, a towel rack, a table to
keep the goods of the lodger or the lodgers and a bathroom
with toilet facilities.
(24) In any licensed premises the bedrooms shall not at any
time consist of —
(a) more than one bed in a single room ;
(b) more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin
room ;
(c) more than one double bed and a single bed or three
single beds in a triple room ; and
(d) more than two double beds and a single bed or one
double bed and three single beds in a family room.
5. Any person requesting a licence under the provisions of the
By-laws in this part shall forward to the Chairman an
application substantially prepared according to the specimen
given in the schedule to this part.
6. It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space
where paints need to be applied as set out in By-law No. 4
shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
7. The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a
day and the drains carrying waste water shall be cleaned and
washed with water at least twice daily.
8. No person shall be allowed to sleep in any other room than
those which have been specifically mentioned as bed rooms
in the licensed premises.
9. The licensee shall not allow a number of persons to sleep in
any bed room, not commensurate with the minimum space
specified in paragraph (23) in By-law No. 4.
10. In respect of any lodging house the licensee shall not allow
more than one person to sleep in a single room or more than
two in a double room or more than three in a triple room.
However, when the age of anybody sleeping in any room
that person is below 12 years shall not be considered as one
person for the purposes of this by-law.

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1570
11. While every licensed premises shall maintain a register to
note the name, address and identity of each person coming
to stay overnight in the licensed premises, it shall be the
duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that register when
it is so requested by the Chairman, authorized officer or any
Police Officer.
12. While everybody lodging in any lodging house shall forward
his/her identity to the licensee the relevant person shall sign
the name in the column where his/her particulars are entered
in the Visitors’ Register maintained at the lodging house.
Moreover, the licensee shall not allow any person not
establishing his/her identity or refusing to sign the name in
the column of the Visitors’ Register where information in
respect of his/her identity are entered, to stay overnight in
any section of the licensed premises.
13. While it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that any lodging
house is not used for immoral activities any person shall not
engage in singing songs or activating disk operating machines
or making any unnecessary noise so as to creating
inconvenience to other lodgers in the lodging house or
residents living close by.
14. Unless the bed sheets, pillow cases, sheets, towels and any
other clothes used by any customer occupying any bed room
of the licensed premises are washed and cleaned after being
used by him no other customer shall be allowed to use them
and the windows in that room shall have being left fully
open for at least four hours before it is allowed to be used by
any subsequent customer.
15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that every room,
staircase, veranda, drains and the entire area of the licensed
premises are swept before noon everyday.
16. Keeping any type of animal in any bed room, place where
food is prepared or place reserved for partaking food in the
premises shall not be made.
17. The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be
cleaned at least twice a day and disinfected and maintained
so as to prevent bad smell spreading. However, the cleaning
of lavatories once a day in any room where customers are
lodging is considered sufficient.
18. Every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparation
of food, for exhibition for sale and for the use of the customers
in the licensed premises shall be washed in clean water before
use and the licensee shall ensure that they are cleanly washed
after use as well.
19. While action shall be taken to categorize all waste collected
in each section of the licensed premises according to the
manner prescribed in By-law No. 19 and to put them
immediately into a receptacle made of non-opaque material,
such waste shall be removed from that site at least once a
day or on a number of occasions if required. These receptacles
shall be securely closed except when waste is put into them
and waste is removed from them.
20. The waste removed from the licensed premises shall not be
dumped at any time on the ground of the site or at various
places around the premises.
21. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the
licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken
to categorize the waste material under the categories.
-
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron
and other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of
in the production process or by products or
other parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see
that they are put in separate containers or tanks
put in place for that purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph  (a)  above is disposed of under the
programme of waste management launched by the
Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman.
22. While every licensed premise shall be maintained free of
rats, flies or any other kind of insects it is the duty of the
licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or
beverages kept there and food or beverages prepared are
protected from pollution by the above animals.
23. While food served to the customers shall not be handled by
bare hands, a spoon, fork or any other instrument shall be
used to serve food.
24. Any kind of adulterated milk shall not be kept or sold in any
licensed premises. For the purpose of this By-law adulterated
milk shall mean milk mixed with water or any other kind of
foreign matter or matters or cows milk with less than 85
percent solid milk which is not fat or with less than 35
percent milk fat or buffalo milk with less than 9 percent
solid milk which is not fat or with less than 7 percent milk
fat.

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1571
25. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation
of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been
recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a
disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let
anybody else engage in service in a licensed premises
or as an assistant of any person engaged in service at
such a premises.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any duty at any licensed premise.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees
engaged at licensed premises to a medical test at leaset
once a year.
26. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty.
27. All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied
with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and
soap or fluid soap.
28. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the by-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when the premises is opened
to the public.
29. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food kept for sale or
displayed for sale in the premises, no licensee shall desist or
prevent such purchase.
30. In the event of the premises where a lodging house is
maintained under a licence issued under the By-laws of this
part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the
provisions set out in By-law No. 4 or contravenes the
provisions of any By-law of the By-laws set out in this part
the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said
licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions
to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before
a specified date.
31. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No.
30 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
32. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-
law No. 17 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out
in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date
extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the
licence issued to that premises.
33. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“double bed” means a bed at least 200 centimetres long
and 125 centimetres wide with a mattress ;
“double room” means a room where space sufficient to
get lodging facilities for two persons at a time is
available with a double bed or two single beds ;
“family room” means a room where space sufficient to
get lodging facilities for three persons at a time is
available with two double beds and one single bed
or one double bed and three single beds or five
single beds ;
“single bed” means a bed at least 200 centimetres long
and 95 centimetres wide with a mattress ;
“single room” means a room where space sufficient to
get lodging facilities for one person only is available
with a bed ;
“triple room” means a room where space sufficient to
get lodging facilities for three persons at a time is
available with a double bed and a single bed or one
double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
SCHEDULE
B
Y-LAW NO. 5
Application for a Licence to Maintain a Lodging House
01. Name of the applicant: … … … … …… …… …… ……
Address : … … … … … … … … … … … … …… ………
National Identity Card No. : … … … … … … … … … …
02. Name of the Lodging House: … … … … … …  … … …
Address:  … … … … … … … … … … … … ……  ……
Name of the Manager/Guardian: … … … … … …
Telephone Number: … … … … … … … … …
03. Year for which licence is applied: … … … … … … … …
04. The number of:
i. Single rooms in the lodging house: … … … …………
ii. double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
iii. triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
iv. family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
v. all persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
05. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the
Lodging House: … … … … … … … …

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1572
06. Toilets :
(i) The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii) The number of to ilets for female employees:… … …
(iii) The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv) The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
07. Bathrooms:
(i) The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii) The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
08. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …
09. Source of water supply: … … … … … …
10. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … …
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and
accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the
By-laws in respect of regularize, supervise and control
of the lodging house. I apply for a licence for the year
20…. to maintain the above lodging house under the
above By-laws.
… … … … … … … …
Signature of Proprietor
Manager/Guardian.
Date:-……….. 2010.
PART XVI
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO LAUNDRIES
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the laundries within the
area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
a laundry in any place within the Urban Council Area.
3. The Chairman shall not issue a licence for a laundry unless
the premises for which a licence is expected to be obtained
conform to the conditions set out below :–
(i) Every room in the licensed premises shall have
windows that could be opened to the outside. The
area of the opened windows shall not be less than one
fifteenth the area of the floor of the room;
(ii) the height of the walls of every room shall not be less
than 2.14 meters ;
(iii) separate rooms shall be made available for soiled
clothes and for washed clothes;
(iv) toilets shall have been built on the basis of at least one
for each ten persons employed in the laundry;
(v) unless purification is done according to a standard
recommended by the Regional Director of Health
Services,  the waste water disposed of shall not be
allowed to flow into a public water course;
(vi) when waste water disposed of after washing clothes
cannot be subjected to purification, such waste water
shall be directed to a suction pit. Moreover, that suction
pit shall not be open to the air and be located at a
distance of not less than fifteen meters from a well
situated close by;
(vii) the interior and exterior of the building used for the
laundry shall be provided with sufficient system of
fire fighting.
4. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
5. The interior of the premises used for every licensed laundry—
(i) shall be maintained in proper maintaining condition ;
(ii) shall not be used for household activities at any time ;
(iii) shall not be used to keep any animal or allowed to be
used for such purposes.
(iv) shall not be used to keep soiled and washed clothes
mixed or allowed to be used in that manner ;
(v) in the event of using charcoal for the purpose of ironing
clothes action shall be taken to douse the remnants with
water and to be collected in a separate receptacle. The
burning of coconut shells or any other material to produce
charcoal shall not be carried out within the licensed
premises;
vi. at the end of the day’s activities action shall be taken to
douse the fires generated in the laundry;
6. Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a
infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed no
person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a
disease in the recent past or had been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage
himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage in
any form of activity or as an assistant of any person engaged
in any activity in the laundry.
7. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Laundry” means any type of building or any plot of
land or place or premises used by any person
pursuing an enterprise as a cleaner of clothes for
the purpose of washing clothes, drying clothes, dry
cleaning clothes or for ironing clothes. It shall also
include any building used to store such clothes and
any well, tank or other source of water used for the
purposes of the enterprise by such a person.

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1573
PART XVII
BY-LAWS  RELA TING  TO  FACTORIES
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the factories within the area
of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
a factory in the Urban Council area.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any
place maintaining a factory:–
(1) The premises of the factory shall be maintained in
proper maintaining condition ;
(2) Every building of the factory shall have good
ventilation and light. While every room shall have been
fixed with windows that could be opened the area of
the open windows shall not be less then one fifteenth
of the floor area of the room. However, where it is
impossible to maintain the production activities of
the factory in a building other than a closed building or
where the factory building is air-conditioned the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply;
(3) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms
shall not be less than 2.14 meters the walls shall have
been plastered with mortar and the insides applied
with paints, in the event of their being built with bricks,
cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise when the
walls have been built in wood together with aluminium
or any other metal the planks shall have been painted
on their surface ;
(4) While the roof shall have been built using solid
materials the eaves shall be at a height of at least 2
meters from the floor level and the reservation for the
eaves shall be at least one meter in width ;
(5) The surfaces of iron, other metals or timber used for
the roof shall be applied with oil coloured or paints ;
(6) The floor space shall be finished off with cement or
tiled ;
(7) While the employees of the factory shall be allocated
lavatories on the basis of at least one for each group of
ten employees, separate lavatories shall be set aside
for males and females;
(8) Unless purification is done according to a standard
recommended by the Regional Director of Health
Services the waste water disposed of shall not be
allowed to flow into a public water course;
(9) When waste water disposed of after production
activities washing clothes cannot be subjected to
purification, such waste water shall be directed to a
suction pit as recommended by the Regional Director
of Health Services or the Chairman of the Central
Environmental Authority.  Moreover, that suction pit
shall not be open to the air and be located at a distance
of not less than fifty meters from a well situated close
by;
(10) The interior and exterior of the building used for the
factory shall be provided with sufficient system of
fire fighting.
(11) Sufficient system of drainage shall have been put in
place to freely drain waste water disposed of, from
the rooms in the factory used for production activities,
from washing for re-use of packing materials or other
materials and from the bathrooms of the employees;
(12) At least one room shall have been made available for
the storage of raw materials used in the production
process, other chemicals, bottles or other packing
materials used in packing any production. Sufficient
security measures shall have been made available to
maintain the said room free of rats and other kinds of
insects;
(13) While a quality certificate issued by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board on the suitability of the
water used in the production process for human
consumption shall have been obtained this quality
certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six
months. In the event of the water being supplied by
the National Water Supply and Drainage Board is used
for the productions it shall be presumed that this
certificate has been obtained ;
(14) In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft
drinks and activities of the factory being kept in storage
sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of water
stored shall be put in place. In the event of water used
being stored in an underground water tank action shall
be taken not to locate a suction pit, or fertilizer pit or
ash pit less than 18 meters from it;
(15) While the premises used for the washing of used
packing material shall be located separate from the
rooms where production activities are carried on only
water issued with a quality certificate mentioned in
paragraph (13) above shall be used for such activities;
(16) Separate containers or tanks shall be kept to
accommodate waste material generated due to the
activities of the soft drinks manufacture, in the manner
set out in By-law No. 15.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1574
5. It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain every section
of the premises where a factory is functioning free of thorny
bushes or thick growths and to prevent accumulation of water
so as to facilitate breeding of mosquitoes and other larva.
6. Unless necessary precautionary any measures have been put
in place to prevent spread of any gas with bad smell or
poisons, nobody shall store or use within the factory premises
or cause to store any kind of faeces, bone flour, fertilizer or
any material emanating poisonous or oppressive bad smell.
7. Unless action has been taken to maintain sound control below
the limit which could be termed as sound pollution according
to the Provisions made by and according to the amendments
made to these provisions from time to by the Minister-in-
charge of the subject of environment under the provisions of
Section 32 of the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of
1980, nobody shall use any type of machinery generating
sound or steam boilers or any other type of machine
emanating sound when activated.
8. Unless a chimney has been installed to divert smoke generated
from any oven, according to the Provisions made by and
amendments made from time to time by the Minister-in-
charge of the subject of environment under the provisions of
Section 32 of the National  Environment Act, No. 47 of
1980, no factory shall use any chimney emanating smoke.
9. Nobody shall use any steam whistle or steam alarm or siren
for the purpose of signalling, calling, commencing activities
or ending duties of the labourers or employees of any factory,
or any other place or for any other matter. Any factory
already using such steam whistle, or steam alarm or siren on
the date of the implementation of the provisions of the
By-laws in this part shall be entitled to a period of three
months from the effective date to correct the said calling
signals being used by the factory in conformity with the
provisions in this By-law and no such signals shall be used
thereafter.
10. The waste water disposed of after use by any factory shall
not be released to a public water course at any time.
11. Areas of the building which have been required to be painted
in the manner set out in By-law No. 4 shall be painted at
least once a year.
12. Every room of the factory and its environment, drains,
furniture and instruments shall be kept in proper maintaining
condition.
13. When cleaning, pacing materials already used by the factory
in the production process, a minimum of two tanks, viz;
(a) One tank for the removal of labels previously fixed in
the packing and for the initial cleaning; and
(b) the other tank for the final cleaning of those packing,
shall be used and the final cleaning shall be effected
utilizing flowing water.
14. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of
a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed
no person suffering from such disease or had contacted
such a disease in the recent past or had been recently
nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease
shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody
else engage in anyform of activity in the factory;
(b) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees
engaged at the factory to a medical test at least once a
year.
15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-
masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to
ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials
when they are on duty.
16. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed
premises are recycled, action shall be taken to categorize
the waste material under the categories. –
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastic or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in
the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are
put in separate containers or tanks put in place for that
purpose.
(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having
being categorized in the manner set out in paragraph (a)
above is disposed of under the programme of waste
management launched by the Urban Council the final
disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the
Chairman.
17. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the By-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when production activities
are done at the factory.
18. In the event of the premises where any production activity
is carried on under a license issued under the By-laws of this
part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the
provisions set out in By-law No. 4 or contravenes the
provisions of any By-law of the By-laws set out in this part

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1575
the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said
licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions
to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before
a specified date.
19. Any licenses in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law
No. 18 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before
the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
20. When any licenses in receipt of a notice mentioned in
By-law No. 19 fails to act in accordance with the manner set
out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the
date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel
the licence issued to that premises.
21. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“factory” means any premises producing goods or any
other product using any kind of raw materials or
producing goods or any other product using any
other product produced by another factory.
PART XVIII
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO FUNERAL SERVICE SUPPLY CENTRES
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the funeral service supply
centres within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
funeral service centre in the Urban Council area.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under
the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
4. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to funeral
service centre.
(1) While there shall be a separate room for preparing
dead bodies in the building where a funeral service
centre is maintained the room shall have at least space
not below eighty square feet to prepare one dead
body. Moreover, a concrete slab sufficient for use in
this task shall be made available and it shall be tiled
and finished well.
(2) While the room where the dead bodies are prepared
shall always be located separate from the exposition
hall or halls of the Funeral Service Centre action shall
be taken to prevent outsiders entering without
permission.
(3) While windows allowing fresh air to a degree not less
than one seventh of the area of the particular room
where the dead bodies are prepared shall have been
made available the work connected to it shall not be
open to any outsider. Moreover the windows shall
not be directly open to houses close to the premises
of the funeral service centre.
(4) While sufficient receptacles to temporarily dump
parts of the dead body removed in the process of
preparing them shall be made available non-opaque
receptacles that could be securely closed so as to
prevent entry of flies, rats or other animals shall also
be provided to collect blood flowing out of the dead
body while it is being prepared or other fluids or
waste water generated in the event of the body being
washed.
(5) When arrangements are being made to keep dead bodies
at the licensed premises for public homage action shall
be taken to provide a sufficient number of chairs for
the convenience of the people who come to pay last
respects to the dead body and to allocate parking
facilities for the vehicles of such guests.
(6) The place where the dead bodies are kept for public
homage shall be separate from the exposition hall of
the service centre and the room where the bodies are
prepared.
(7) There shall be a register substantially prepared
according to the specimen form given in the second
schedule of the By-laws of this part.
5. Any person requesting a license under the provisions of the
By-laws in this part shall forward to the Chairman an
application substantially prepared according to the specimen
given in the schedule to this part.
6. If there is no order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into
Sudden Deaths in respect of a dead body the parts of the
body removed in the process of preparing, it shall be securely
interred in a pit four feet deep from the ground level before
the elapse of six hours after the completion of preparatory
activities.
7. If there is an order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into
Sudden Deaths in respect of the parts of the dead body
removed in the process of preparing it, it shall be the duty of
the licensee to act according to the order.
8. When there is no sufficient space at the funeral service centre
to carry out the activities mentioned in the By-law No. 6

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1576
action shall be taken to securely inter the body parts at the
depth prescribed in that By-law at the public cemetery of
the Urban Council on payment of a fee to be decided by the
Council from time to time.
9. The room where the dead bodies are prepared shall be
maintained cleanly always having applied disinfectants.
Moreover, sufficient first aid materials and other instruments
shall be made available for the use of the staff when necessary.
10. It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain records of the
members of the staff employed at the Funeral Service Centre.
11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply security clothe,
face masks and gloves in the manner prescribed by the Regional
Director  of Health to all the employees serving in the rooms
where dead bodies are prepared and to ensure that these
employees wear those clothes and other apparatus when
preparing dead bodies.
12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all the employees
being employed at the licensed premises to a medical
examination at least once a year.
13. The interior of the vehicle or vehicles transporting dead bodies
shall be cleaned with vacuum cleaners and disinfected at least
once per day.
14. Polythene or any other non-decaying material shall not be
used to cover the inside of a coffin or the entire dead body or
a part of the dead body unless the dead bodies are in such a
condition as to make it impossible to prepare due to excessive
injuries caused or due to any other reasons.
15. No person other than one who has been duly empowered by
the licensee shall prepare any dead body or transport any
dead body.
16. Unless there is written permission granted to the licensee by
the Regional Director  of Health Services under the conditions
prescribed by him, no person shall bring or allow any body
else to bring a dead body of a person presumed to have died
due to cholera, plaque, smallpox, yellow fever or aids to the
licensed centre.
17. No dead body shall be accepted by the licensee for preparing
the body and organizing funeral arrangements, unless a formal
death certificate issued by the Registrar of Deaths on the
particular death has been forwarded to him.
18. Nobody shall prepare or accept for preparing a dead body
unless a formal death certificate issued after an inquiry made
by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths has been
forwarded to him, when that death is a sudden death or when
the death is suspicious.
19. If there is any order in regard to last rights of any dead body
issued through a report released on completion of an inquiry
into the sudden death carried out by a Magistrate or an
Inquirer into Sudden Deaths, the licensee shall carry out the
provisions of that order.
20. It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain a document
substantially prepared in conformity with the specimen form
given in the Second Schedule of this part in respect of every
preparation of dead bodies and supply of funeral Services
carried out in the licensed premises or in any external premises
and to submit it for perusal on demand by the Chairman, by
an Authorized Officer or any Police Officer.
21. In case of Centres maintaining services in keeping dead bodies
for public homage action shall be taken to exhibit the bodies
in a manner preserving the dignity of the dead person as well
as the owners of the dead body.
22. It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain the place
where a dead body is kept for public homage cleanly and
hygienically.
23. Nobody shall perform any activity within the premises of
the funeral services centre that would cause harm or
inconvenience to residents living close to the funeral service
centre, or allow such things to happen.
24. ( a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed
premises are recycled, action shall be taken to categorize
the waste material under the categories. -
(i) Bio degradable waste ;
(ii) Glass ;
(iii) Paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) Polythene and plastics or material based on
polythene and plastics ;
(v) Iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and
other kinds of metal ;
(vi) Dangerous waste ;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that
they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(b) While waste material mentioned in sub-paragraphs (i)
to (vi) in paragraph ( a) shall not include any parts of
dead bodies, it shall be the duty of the license holder to
take action to appropriately remove in the manner set
out in By-laws Nos. 6 or 7 any part or parts of the
dead body taken away.
(c) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks
having being categorized in the manner set out in
paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the programme
of waste management launched by the Urban Council
the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman.

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1577
25. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or
by an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the
By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when a
dead body is prepared or is kept for public homage.
26. In the event of the premises where a funeral service
centre is maintained under a license issued under the
By-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance
with any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 4
or contravenes the provisions of any By-law of the
by-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take
action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding
him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the
said premises to the prescribed position before a
specified date.
27. Any license in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law
No. 26 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice
before the date specified in the notice. At any time when
acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing the
Chairman shall have the power to extend the date
specified in the said notice. However, the period of such
extension shall not be more than four days.
28. When any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in
By-law No. 27 fails to act in accordance with the manner
set out in the notice before the date specified in the
notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the
Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.
29. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“funeral Service Supply Centre” means a centre where a
dead body is prepared so as to preserve it for
sometime or where a dead body is prepared for
last rites or place where a dead body is kept for
a fee until it is taken to the cemetery for last
rites;
“parts of the dead body” means any limb removed from
the body of a dead person, or part of a limb or
internal organ or blood flowing out of the body
or any other fluid or any dress or dresses worn
by the person at the time of death or any part
of such dress or bandages, gauze or any other
thing found in an injured part of the body.
“preparing of dead bodies” means preparing a dead body
of a person so as to preserve it for some time in
order to pay last respects, dressing a dead body,
placing the body in a coffin and doing any other
thing in this regard.
FIRST SCHEDULE
By-Law No. 5
A
PPLICATION FOR A LICENCE TO MAINTAIN A FUNERAL SERVICE
SUPPLY CENTRE
01. Name of the Applicant: … … … … … … … … … … … …
02. Address: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
03. National Identity Card No.:… … … … … … … … … … …
04. The commercial name of the Funeral Service Centre and the
Address:  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
05. Number of dead bodies that can be kept for preparation at a
time: … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
06. Number of hearses owned by the institution:  … … … … …
07. Number of vehicles available for transport of bodies before
preparation:  … … … … … … … …… … … … … … … …
08. Manner in which parts of the body removed are disposed of:
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
09. In the event of acceptance of dead bodies for display:
(i) Number of dead bodies that could be displayed at a time:
… … …
(ii) Number of vehicles of the visitors that could be parked at
a time: … … … … … … …
10. Whether natural flowers are kept and sold? Yes/No : … …
11. The manner in which rejected flowers or plants are expected
to be disposed of:  … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
12. Number of employees of the institution: - … … … … … …
13. If a Manager has been appointed:
(i) Name of the Manager:  … … … … … … … … … … …
(ii) National Identity Card Number:  … … … … … … … …
14. On placing my signature below I hereby accept that I agree
to fully comply with the provisions in the By-laws in relating
to regularize, supervise and control of funeral service centres
and to comply with the other sanitary provisions prescribed
by the Urban Council from time to time.
……………………….
Signature of Applicant
Date: - … … … … … … …

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1578
SECOND  SCHEDULE
By Law No. 20
REGISTER ON DEAD BODIES PREPARED AT THE FUNERAL SERVICE CENTRE OR AT ANY OTHER PLACE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Death Certificate
Registration No.
Dead Body Owner of the Dead Body
Order of the
Inquirer-into-
Sudden
Death/Magistrate
Signature of the Owner
Date
Reference No.
NIC No.
Address
Relationship
to deceased
Name
Date
Time
No.
Date
Date of Death
Gender
NIC. No.
Name of the Deceased
Serial No.
(NB: Sufficient space shall be provided in the columns in order to note down the information by using both the left and right pages of the Register.)

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1579
PART XIX
BY-LAWS RELATING TO SALE OF FOODS AND BEVERAGES BY ITINERANT
VENDORS
1. By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to
regularize, supervise and control the  sale of foods and
beverages by itinerant vendors within the area of authority
of the Urban Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been  obtained no person shall sell
foods and beverages in any place other than a hotel, shop or
market in the Urban  Council area.
    3. ( a) Every licence issued under the provisions of the
By-laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December
of the year for which it had been issued unless it is
cancelled earlier under the provisions of the By-laws in
this part.
(b) Notwithstanding anything stated in paragraph (a) it
shall be lawful for the Chairman to issue temporary
licences for itinerant vendors when there is a public
gathering like a festival or meeting or precession or a
gathering of any other type in the area of authority of
the Urban  Council. Moreover, the particular licence
shall be rendered invalid after the expiry of the date for
which the licence was issued.
4. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any
itinerant vendor to sell foods and beverages.
(a) A closed receptacle or box that could prevent food or
beverages available for sale being polluted by flies,
insects, dust or water shall be kept in readiness.
(b) A holder made of stainless metal shall be available to be
used when food is served to the customers.
(c) If food or beverages are offered to the customers to be
consumed then and there separate receptacles shall be
available for such purposes.
(d) While separate receptacles shall be made available to
collect leftover of food and leftovers of beverages
offered to the customers, these receptacles shall consist
of tight lids.
5. Unless anybody engaged in itinerant vending is carrying out
his/her activities so as not to cause inconvenience or danger
to vehicles or pedestrians using any lane or road or to any
person assembled at any public place no itinerant vending
shall be done in any public premises.
6. All waste material generated while engaged in itinerant
vending shall be categorized under the categories of:-
(i) bio degradable waste;
(ii) glass;
(iii) pa per or paper based materials;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene
and plastics;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other
kinds of metal;
and action shall be taken to dispose of these waste
materials belonging to each category in the manner
prescribed by the Chairman under the waste disposal
programme of the Urban Council.
7. ( a) Provided that the Chairman has been made aware of
by the Regional Director of Health Services that a
contagious disease or a disease in the abdominal area
is spreading in the Urban Council area or there is the
likelihood of such a disease spreading in the area, the
Chairman  shall have the power, -
(i) to temporarily suspend any licence issued under
the provisions in this part having stated the facts in
writing;
(ii) to ban itinerant vending in any area under the
purview of the Urban Council;
(iii) to take into his custody the licence temporarily
suspended under paragraph (i) during the period of
such suspension, and
(iv) to revalidate the licence suspended in the event of
the Regional Director of  Health Services taking
action to keep the Chairman aware of the fact that
the danger of the disease spreading has ended, before
the date of expiry of the licence.
(b) The Urban Council, the Chairman, the Authorized
Officer or  the Regional Director of Health Services
shall not be subjected to responsibility in respect of
any loss or harm caused to the licensee due to
temporary suspension of any licence under paragraph
(a).
(c) In the event of the Regional Director of Health Service
keeping the Chairman aware of the fact that the danger
which caused the ban on itinerant vending in any part
of the area of authority of the Urban Council under
subsection (ii) of Section (a) has ended, it shall be the
duty of the Chairman to inform the licensees that
permission will be granted to recommence itinerant
vending in that particular area.
8. Whereas itinerant vending has been banned by the Chairman
in any area under the purview of the Council under by-law
No. 7 nobody shall engage in itinerant vending in that area.
9. Even if a licence had been obtained under the By-laws of this
part, any person suffering from any infectious, contagious,
or skin disease or had recently suffered from such a disease
or had recently nursed any person suffering from such a
disease shall not engage in itinerant vending activities unless
the period of infection and germination had elapsed.

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1580
10. While every licensee shall keep in his/her possession the
licence issued under the conditions of this part on all occasions
when he is engaged in vending activities the licence shall be
submitted for inspection when requested to do so by the
Chairman or an Authorized Officer.
11. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the By-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when an itinerant vendor is
engaged in itinerant vending.
12. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food or beverages
being sold by an itinerant vendor, no licensee shall desist or
prevent such purchase.
13. In the event of any itinerant vending activity carried on under
a licence issued under the By-laws of this part fails to
maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set
out in By-law No. 4 or contravenes the provisions of any
By-law of the By-laws set out in this part the Chairman
shall take action to issue a written notice to the said licensee
and it shall be lawful for him to cancel the licence issued for
itinerant vending thereafter.
14. In the By-laws in this part, unless any other meaning is
required,-
“itinerant vending” means a trading in food or beverages
kept in a receptacle or in a box or in any type of
container or in any vehicle by bicycle or cart or trolley
done by sale or exhibiting for sale or by sale through
exhibition for the consumption of the public. It shall
also include the sale of such commodities while
travelling from place to place or staying at a certain
place.
PART XX
B
Y - LAWS RELATING TO PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in respect
of establishing and maintenance of pedestrian crossings in
the roads within the area of authority of the Urban  Council.
2. Identification of pedestrian crossings to enable the pedestrians
to cross the roads within the area of authority of the Urban
Council and declaration and demarcation of those crossings
identified shall be done.
3. While the demarcations that shall be done in pedestrian
crossings declared under By-law No. 2 shall be in accordance
with the specimen in the illustration 4.18 in Provisions
published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 444/18 (Part I
Paragraph I) dated 13th March 1987 having been made by
the Minister under Section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act
read with Section 164 of the said Act, they are subject to
amendments made from time to time. Moreover, it shall be
the duty of the Chairman to get the markings repainted
without allowing them to be obliterated.
4. No person shall deface or obliterate any pedestrian crossing
marked under By law No.2. However, the Urban  Council
shall have the power to change or relocate any pedestrian
crossing according to decisions made from time to time.
5. When any pedestrian has entered on to the crossing with a
view to crossing the road every driver of a vehicle who had
arrived at the crossing shall stop his vehicle until the
pedestrian has crossed over to the other side of the road.
6. When any vehicle has almost passed the limit marked at the
crossing for the vehicles to stop no pedestrian who intends
to cross the road over the crossing shall enter into the
particular crossing.
7. While no pedestrian shall remain on any pedestrian crossing
or remain on it so as to cause obstruction to any vehicle
passing over it, he shall not unduly obstruct any other
pedestrian crossing the road.
8. Any vehicle arriving at any pedestrian crossing being
controlled by a Police Officer or a Traffic Warden or by
electrical signals or any other device shall be controlled
according to the signals given by the Police Officer or Traffic
Warden or the electrical device by the driver of the vehicle.
9. A driver of any vehicle shall not stop the vehicle being driven
by him on any pedestrian crossing or on any section of that
crossing,-
(a) unless he has been prevented from moving further due
to any reason beyond his control; or
(b) unless it is found necessary to stop the vehicle on a
pedestrian crossing in order to prevent any accident.
10. The Urban  Council shall take measures necessary to
encourage Traffic Wardens employed at pedestrian crossings
marked on the roads in front of any school within the area of
authority of the Council.
11. In the By-laws in this part, unless any other meaning is
sought,-
“traffic warden” means a student or any other person named
or being employed by any head of a school or any
other person authorized by him for the purpose of
control the pedestrians and vehicles at pedestrian
crossings;
“vehicle” means any motor vehicle mentioned in the Motor
Traffic Act and it shall include any cart, trolley, bicycle
and a bicycle powered by a motor.

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1581
PART XXI
BY-LAWS RELA TING TO CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL INDUSTRIES AND
CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL STORES
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating to
the  regularizing, supervision and control of places of
construction materials industries and places of construction
material storage within the area of authority of the Urban
Council.
2. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
places of construction material industries or places of
construction material storage in the Urban  Council area.
3. Any person expecting a licence under the By-law No. 2
shall forward an application substantially prepared according
to the specimen given in the Schedule.
4. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to anybody
applying for a licence under By-law No. 3.
5. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-law
No. 3 of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the
year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier
under the provisions of the By-law No. 13 in this part.
6. When the licence applied for under the By-laws of this part
is in respect of an industry related to construction materials,
-
(i) the premises where the industry is to be maintained
shall be located at least 30 meters away from any
residences close by;
(ii) sufficient precautionary measures prescribed by the
Regional Director of Health Services shall be put in
place in order to prevent any dust or steam generated
there spreading to residences close by;
(iii) sufficient lavatories and urinals for the employees
shall have been constructed and places for bathing
shall also be made available;
(iv) sufficient drains shall have been constructed in order
to facilitate flow of waste water;
(v) the security of accessories and electric circuits
provided to fix electrical gadgets shall be ensured.
07. When the licence applied for under the By-laws of this part
is in respect of a stores related to construction materials, -
(i) the premises where the industry is to be maintained
shall be located at least 05 meters away from any
residences close by;
(ii) sufficient precautionary measures prescribed by the
Regional Director  of Health  Sercices shall be put in
place in order to prevent any dust or steam generated
there spreading to residences close by;
(iii) sufficient lavatories and urinals for the employees
shall have been constructed and places for bathing
shall also be made available;
(iv) sufficient drains shall have been constructed in order
to facilitate flow of waste water;
(v) the security of accessories and electric circuits
provided to fix electrical gadgets shall be ensured.
(vi) sufficient parking facilities for the vehicles arriving
there to transport stored materials shall be provided.
08. Any person issued with a licence under the By-laws in this
part shall,
(i) not direct waste water or impure water or any other
fluid generated within the premises to a public water
course or allow anybody else to do so,
(ii) unless all waste matter generated within the premises
is recycled, action shall be taken to categorize them
as, -
(a) biodegradable waste;
(b) glass ;
(c) paper or paper related materials;
(d) polythene and plastics or materials related to
polythene and plastics;
(e) iron and other metals or pieces of iron and other
metals;
(f) remnants of other raw materials used in the
production process or by-products or parts
generated in the production process.
(iii) Action shall be taken to separately hand over waste
material categorized under the provisions in paragraph
(ii) above to a vehicle of the Council collecting waste
matter or to a person engaged in collecting waste
matter with permission from the Council, according
to a time table in respect of collecting waste.
09. Anybody licensed under the By-laws in this part shall take
action, -
(i) to purify impure water, generated within his premises,
and
(ii) to remove other kinds of fluids that are not impure water,
in the manner recommended by the Regional Director
of Health Services.
10. While action shall be taken to transport raw materials used
in the industry and the finished products so as not to expose
them to the environment they shall not be stored or deposited
in any public premises unless they are meant for a
construction at any public place.

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1582
11. At every premises licensed under the By-laws in this part, -
(i) a sufficient fire-fighting programme in the manner
prescribed by the Chairman shall be made available;
(ii) a first aid and treatment programme in the manner
prescribed by the Regional Director  of Health Services
shall be made available;
(iii) while a suitable place shall be made available to the
employees of the factory to partake food and change
dresses, they shall be provided with face masks, gloves
and other security costumes during the time they are
engaged in the production process.
12. (1) It shall be lawful for the Chairman, or for any Authorized
Officer or officials to enter the premises at any time
when work is in progress at the licensed premises and
examine whether action is taken according to provisions
of the By-laws in this part.
(2) While it shall be duty of the licensee to offer necessary
assistance for inquiries made by anybody mentioned in
paragraph (1) above the said inquiries shall not be
prevented or obstructed.
13. (1) If it were to be revealed at any inquiry made by any
person mentioned in By-law No. 12 that the particular
premises is maintained in violation of the provisions of
the By-laws in this part the person carrying out the
inquiry shall inform the licensee in writing to correct
such violations.
(2) Every person in receipt of a notice under paragraph (1)
above shall take steps to complete the corrections
mentioned therein before the date specified in the notice.
(3) When the licensee is unable to act according to the manner
mentioned in paragraph (2) above it shall be lawful to
cancel the licence issued to the particular licensee.
14. (1) After the cancellation of a licence under the By-law No.
13 the person whose licence has been cancelled shall
have the right to apply again to use the particular
premises to maintain the industry further.
(2) When a new licence is being applied for in the manner set
out in  paragraph (1) above the provisions in the
By-laws Nos. 3, 4 and 5 shall apply.
16. In the By-laws of this part, unless any other meaning is
sought,-
“construction materials” means metal, metal powder, sand,
cement and gravel.
PART XXII
B
Y-LAWS RELA TING TO PARKING OF VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating to
regularizing Supervision and Control of parking  vehicles
and traffic control on the roads within the area of authority
of the Urban Council.
2. ( a) The Urban  Council shall have the power to -
(i) ban the parking of vehicles;
(ii) limit the parking of vehicles;
(iii) allow parking on one side only;
(iv) ban or limit the loading or unloading of goods;
(v) ban loading and unloading of passengers;
(vi) name bus stops;
(vii) name one way s treets and roads and to determine the
direction of traffic,
on any section of any street or road in the area of
authority of the Urban  Council;
(b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take action to fix
road signs on limitations at relevant places after placing
any limitations under paragraph (a). While these road
signs on the limitations shall be in accordance with
provisions published in the Gazette Extra-ordinary  No.
448/18 dated 13th March 1987, having been made by the
Minister under Section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act read
with section 164 of the said Act, they are subject to
amendments made from time to time.
3. Any driver of a vehicle being driven along any street or road
located within or lying along the area of authority of the
Urban Council shall obey the Provisions depicted in a road
sign or signs fixed under the Provisions in paragraph (b) of
By-law No.2.
4. Notwithstanding anything stated in the By-law No. 3 the
limitations prescribed by any road sign fixed on the decision
of the Urban  Council under the provisions of By-law No. 2
shall not apply in respect of, -
(a) a fire fighting vehicle or any other vehicle of the Urbanl
Council used for the purpose of control any fire or any
disaster occurring at any building or close to a building in
any section of the street or road;
(b) acting in accordance with an order issued appropriately
by any Police Officer in order to prevent any traffic jam
occurring in any street or road or on any particular section
of the street or road or in order to control any unexpected
situation occurring in the area of authority of the Urban
Council,
and it shall not be considered as a violation of the
provisions in By-law No. 3.

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1583
5. ( a) The Urban  Council shall have the power to allocate, -
(i) any plot of land owned by the Council ;or
(ii) any plot of land owned by any other Authority,
(according to an agreement entered into with such
Authority) for the purpose of parking motor
vehicles, hereinafter referred to as “the vehicle
park”, within the area of authority of the Urban
Council.
(b) The Urban Council shall decide from time to time the
type of vehicles that shall be parked in any vehicle park
and the maximum number of vehicles that shall be parked
at a time.
6. At least two gates shall be made available in every vehicle
park, one as a point of entry and the other as an exit.
However, in the event of allocating a separate area in the
park for the sole purpose of moving vehicles and allowing
double lanes for vehicular traffic, with sufficient space at the
gate it shall be in order to have only one gate for entry as well
as exit.
7. Action shall be taken to display easily readable notices in all
the three languages at the entry and the exit for the
convenience of the vehicles arriving at the vehicle park.
Moreover, arrows with white lines 20 centimetres wide shall
be marked so as to enable the drivers to easily recognize the
directions they shall follow while entering into the vehicle
park and leaving it.
8. While the floor of every vehicle park shall be tarred or laid
with concrete separate lavatories shall have been made
available for the males and females using the vehicle park. At
the same time sufficient drains shall have been constructed
for the free flow of water accumulated at the site.
9. It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take steps to remove
garbage collected within the premises of every vehicle park
every day and to clean the lavatories using disinfectants
daily.
10. When accommodation is made to park vehicles at any vehicle
park, sufficient traffic lanes shall be made available for the
convenience of vehicles entering and leaving the premises.
11. When any vehicle is being driven or being parked within the
vehicle park sufficient space shall be made available in it to
park each vehicle so as not to cause any obstruction to those
already parked within. Moreover, a white line 10 centimetres
wide shall be marked to indicate the space allocated to each
vehicle in the park.
12. An amount of money decided by the Urban Council from
time to time shall be charged for parking vehicles in a vehicle
park. Moreover it shall be the duty of the Chairman to display
at the entrance prominently in all the three languages the
amount of money decided upon by the Council as charges
for parking of any type of vehicle in any vehicle park.
13. (a) (i) Any employee of the Urban Council;  or
(ii)  Any successful bidder selected by the Urban Council
after calling for tenders or a person named by the
particular bidder, hereinafter referred to as the
“Vehicle Park Warden” shall be employed by the
Urban Council to collect charges made on vehicles
parked in the vehicle park.
(b) However, while the fees charged for parking vehicles in
any vehicle park shall not exceed the fees decided by the
Urban Council in the manner stated in the by-law No.
12, the fees charged for parking each vehicle shall be
noted down in a receipt substantially prepared according
to the first schedule in this part and issued to the driver.
14. It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take action to see
that every Vehicle Park Warden on duty is dressed in a suit
to be decided by the Urban  Council and which would allow
easy identification of the Park Warden.
15. ( a) It shall be the duty of the Vehicle Park Warden to issue an
Admission Card indicating permission to enter and
prepared substantially in accordance with the second
schedule in this part to the driver of the vehicle at the
entrance to the Park when a vehicle of any type allowed
to be parked under paragraph (b) of By law No. 5 enters
the vehicle park.
(b) Before leaving the vehicle park, it shall be the duty of the
driver of any vehicle parked in the vehicle park to -
(i) return the card mentioned in paragraph ( a) to the
vehicle park warden,
(ii) pay to the vehicle park warden parking fees decided
upon by the Council in the manner set out in by-
law No. 12;
(iii) obtain a suitable receipt mentioned in paragraph
(b) of By-law  No. 13.
16 ( a) Any person shall not park or drive into a vehicle part or
allow to be driven into the park any vehicle or a vehicle
which is not a motor vehicle unless it is a vehicle of the
type decided by the Urban Council to be allowed into the
Park for parking.
(b) When there is sufficient space at the entry gate for any
vehicle arriving at the vehicle park to tow away any
vehicle parked inside it when it is found impossible to
start it in order to take it out of the park, the provisions
in paragraph (A) shall not apply for the other vehicle.
However, such towing shall not be made in a manner
causing any obstacle or harm to other vehicles parked in
the vehicle park.
17.    Any person shall not, -
(a) wash a vehicle or cause a vehicle to be washed;

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1584
(b) make any repairs other than an essential repair in order to
start the vehicle or changing a tyre for the purpose of
taking the vehicle out of the vehicle park;
(c) make any noise which is considered unnecessary or
oppressive when any repair mentioned in paragraph (b)
are carried out.
(d) park the vehicle in any place in the vehicle park other
than where it was originally parked without permission
from the Vehicle Park Warden;
(e) park vehicles so as to block the lanes of the vehicle
park or the gates at the entry and the exit;
(f) blow the alarm instruments fixed in the vehicle except
for the purpose of preventing an accident or ensuring
the safety of the occupants in the vehicle;
(g) blow the horn of any vehicle parked or entering or
leaving the vehicle park,
(h) consume liquor or spit after chewing betel leaves or
use indecent language or create commotion or engage
in immoral activities, in any vehicle park.
18. While the responsibility in regard to the security of any
vehicle parked in any vehicle park shall lie with the person
who park it in the vehicle park the Urban Council or the
Chairman or the Vehicle Park Warden shall not be subjected
to responsibility in regard to any loss or harm caused within
the vehicle park.
19. It shall be the duty of the owner or the driver of any vehicle
parked within any vehicle park to submit for inspection the
admission card issued in respect of the vehicle when the
Chairman or any Authorized Officer or the Vehicle Park
Warden or any Police Officer requests it for inspection.
20. No vehicle shall on any occasion be driven in the opposite
direction to that which is marked in the lane within any
vehicle park in the manner set out in By-law No. 7.
21. No person shall harm or deface any construction made or
instrument found in any vehicle park.
22. The provisions of the By-laws in this part shall not apply
to, -
(a) government vehicles,
(b) vehicles of the Provincial Council,
(c) vehicles of a local authority established within the
Province, parked within any vehicle park established
within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
However, the said provisions shall apply in respect
of any vehicle of any State Corporation or Statutory
Body in the manner set out in the By-laws in this
part.
23. It shall be lawful for the Chairman, or an Authorized Officer
or the Vehicle Park Warden to take action to remove any
vehicle parked in the vehicle park without a valid admission
card.
24. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“road” means any road, highway, lane, avenue, street, by-
lane, pair of steps, stepping log or pedestrian bridge
owned by the Council and it shall also include any
directional sign, demarcation stone, demarcation
post, lamp post, bridge, any type of culvert, water
crossing, parapet wall, arch, bund, drain, sluice,
supportive bund, hand rail, chain, fence, sign board,
road sign or a pavement by the side of a road fixed
or erected in relation to any road, highway, lane,
street, avenue or pair of steps possessed by the
Urban  Council.
“vehicle” means any motor vehicle in conformity with the
definition given in the Motor Traffic Act in respect
of any motor vehicle.
First Schedule
Paragraph (b) of By-law No. 13
…………………… Urban  Council
Vehicle Park at ………………………………
Vehicle parking fees
Receipt No. ………………
Registration No. of the vehicle:- ……………………
Date:-…………… 20 ……………………
Time of arrival:- …………………… a.m. / p. m.
Time of departure:- …………………… a.m./p. m.
Fees charged:- Rs. ……………………
Second Schedule
Paragraph (a) in By-law No. 15
Front of the Card
.......................................Urban Council
Vehicle Park at........................................
Admission Card
Back of the card
This Card should not be transferred
To be handed over when leaving the Vehicle Park

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1585
PART  XXIII
BY-LAWS RELA TING TO PREVENTION OF DAMAGES TO
THOROUGHFARES AND
OBSTRUCTIONS TO ROAD TRANSPORT
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as prevention of damages
to thoroughfares and obstructions to road transport within
the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. While nobody shall damage a thoroughfare owned by the
Council, nobody shall engage in, -
(a) conducting sales;
(b) parking a vehicle in a place which is not one that has
been allowed by the decision of the Urban Council
under By-laws in Part XXVI, unless it is due to some
reason making it impossible to start the vehicle in
order to take it out of the park or to drive it out of the
park due to some other damage caused;
(c) repairing of vehicles or washing vehicles;
(d) unloading or stockpiling metal, sand, gravel, soil, bricks
or logs except in the course of any activity done on
the decision of the Urban Council or the Chairman for
any repairs in any road;
(e) stockpiling condemned parts of vehicles, in a manner
that would cause obstruction to vehicles or pedestrians
using the road.
3. While nobody shall make any construction within twenty
five feet from the central line of any thoroughfare in which
street lines have not been demarcated for a road more
than fifty feet wide under the provisions of Section 19 of
the Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance, action
shall not be taken to stock any building material brought
for any other construction on any road or on any part of
that road.
4. When action has been taken by any person in violation of
provisions in the By-law No. 3 to stock any building
material on any thoroughfare or part thereof possessed
by the Urban  Council it shall be lawful for the Chairman
or an Authorized Officer to take action to remove those
materials from that spot or to take possession of those
materials. The person or the Council that took action to
remove the materials out of the thoroughfare shall not be
subjected to responsibility in regard to any shortfall, loss
or damage caused to the person who stocked the relevant
materials on the road, due to the actions taken by the
Chairman or the Authorized Officer in the above manner.
 Furthermore, the Council, the Chairman or the Authorized
Officer shall not be subjected to paying any amount of
compensation in respect of the materials so removed.
5. Where any activity needed for the maintenance or repair
of any thoroughfare owned by the Council is concerned,
the Chairman  shall have the power to issue orders to -
(a) close for vehicular traffic, for any period of time, the
whole length of the thoroughfare or a part thereof or
any lane of the road in any direction;
(b) stock any building material or materials on any section
of the thoroughfare;
(c) gain entry into any plot of land by the side of the
relevant thoroughfare and to deposit some building
materials on it;
(d) allow passage for vehicles through that land without
causing any damage to property on that land.
6. No person shall take steps to act in contrary to any order
issued by the Chairman under By-law No. 5 or to obstruct
any person who acts in conformity with that order or to
cause to act accordingly.
7. Unless any person holds written permission issued by
the Chairman nobody shall collect or stockpile or remove
metal, gravel, sand, soil or any other material lying on
any thoroughfare owned by the Urban Council.
8. While action shall be taken to divert to a suction pit
water other than rainwater falling on any land or on the
roof of any building constructed on that land, found in
the plot of land or in the building on that land or waste
water disposed of after use, such diversion shall not be
made to any thoroughfare or any drain along the
thoroughfare owned by the Council.
9. Unless steps have been taken to cover the materials being
transported with a covering that prevents dispersion of
the material in the form of dust or sand or small pieces,
nobody shall transport any such material through any
thoroughfare owned by the Council in any vehicle.
10. While nobody shall fill or damage a drain situated along
any thoroughfare or obstruct the free flow of water along
any drain in the event entry is required to any plot of
land through such a drain it shall be the duty of the owner
of that land to construct a bridge, a platform or an arch
not less than 3 feet long.
11. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“causing damage” means destruction, removal, defacement,
overhauling, displacement, causing harm in any
other way, pasting a poster or handbill on any
section, application of paints, any other mucilage
or tar, and it also includes changing, obliterating,
scratching or removal of letters from a name board.
However, it shall not include any activity done in
respect of any repair to a road, undertaken by the
Council, Chairman or any other officer authorized
by the Chairman.

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1586
“thoroughfare” means a road, highway, lane, avenue, street,
pair of steps, stepping log or bridge and it shall
also include any directional sign, boundary stone,
boundary post, lamp post, bridge, any type of
arch, water crossing, parapet wall, arch, bund,
drain, sluice gate, supportive bund, hand rail,
chain, fence, signboard, highway name board or
pavement by the side of the road fixed or attached
to a thoroughfare, road, highway, lane, street,
by-lane, steps owned by the Council.
“vehicle” shall be interpreted in the same way as it is
given in the Motor Traffic Ordinance and it
includes a cart, bicycle or any mechanism with
wheels and operated mechanically or in any other
way.
PART XXIV
B
Y-LAWS RELA TING TO CREMATORIUMS
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws
regularize and control of the crematoriums of the Urban
Council and charging fees.
2. ( a) No dead body shall be cremated in any crematorium
owned by the Council without a licence issued by the
Chairman or an Authorized Officer.
(b) Unless a Magistrate or an Inquirer in to Sudden Deaths
has granted permission to cremate a dead body on
completion of an inquiry made in respect of it by the
said Magistrate or the Inquirer into Sudden Deaths,
under the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of
1979, the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall
not accept it for cremation or issue a licence to cremate
it.
(c) Unless the relevant crematorium of the Urban  Council
has been named in the 7th Column of the Death
Certificate of a deceased, under “cause of Death and
the place of the burial or cremation’ the Chairman  or
the Authorized Officer shall not accept the dead body
for cremation or issue a licence to cremate it.
3. ( a) While it is possible to determine by Resolution
approved by the Council the charges for the cremation
of a dead body it shall be amended from time to time
on such approval of a Resolution.
(b) While charges levied or amended from time to time
under paragraph ( a)  above shall be published in the
Gazette it shall be prominently displayed at the place
where applications are received for booking the
crematorium and at the crematorium.
(c) The charges for the cremation of a dead body shall be
levied under the classification set out in the First
Schedule of this part.
4. Anybody expecting to obtain a licence mentioned in
By-law No. 2 (hereinafter referred to as “the applicant”)
shall forward an application substantially prepared in
accordance with the Second Schedule to this part together
with the documents mentioned below to the Chairman or
the Authorized Officer :–
(a) (i) The Birth Certificate of the applicant or,
(ii) The Birth Certificate of the deceased or,
(iii) The marriage certificate of the applicant or,
(iv) The certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of
the Division where the deceased was living,
in order to facilitate the establishment of the
relationship between the deceased and the applicant ;
(b) If an inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code Act,
No. 15 of 1979 had been made in respect of the death
of the deceased, the certificate issued by the Magistrate
or the Inquirer-into-Sudden Deaths under Paragraph
41(e) of the Registration of Births and   Deaths
Ordinance giving permission to cremate the dead body
or the certificate issued under Paragraph 43(b) of the
Registration of Birth and Deaths Ordinance, in the
event of the dead body being of a still born person ;
and
(c) the Death Certificate of the deceased.
5. In the event of a decision being arrived at to issue a licence
on an application made for permission to cremate a dead
body, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or the
Authorized Officer to register the death in the sequence
such applications are received in a Register substantially
prepared according to the Third Schedule to this part.
This Register shall be maintained at the Office of the
Urban Council accepting applications.
6. In the event of accepting any dead body for cremation in
accordance with the application forwarded, the applicant
shall be issued with the licence by the Chairman or the
Authorized Officer after charging the fees levied according
to By-law No. 3. The time and the date on which the dead
body due to be cremated according to the licence should
be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper shall be clearly
specified in the relevant licence.
7. In the event of a dead body being not accepted for
cremation due to some reason the Chairman or the
Authorized Officer shall take steps to immediately inform
the applicant in writing about it, specifying the reasons
for such non-acceptance.

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1587
8. Dead bodies shall be accepted for cremation and cremations
shall be done between the periods 7.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. on
all days of the week.
9. The dead body shall be handed over to the Crematorium
Keeper on or before the time specified in the licence issued.
The Urban Council, the Chairman or the Authorized Officer
shall not be subjected to responsibility in respect of any
inconvenience or loss caused to the applicant or anybody
else having rights over the deceased due to the failure to
handover the dead body on time.
10. The Crematorium Keeper shall maintain a Register
substantially prepared in accordance with the Fourth
Schedule to this part, in regard to each dead body cremated
in any crematorium.
11. ( a) The applicant or any authorized representative of
him shall take possession of the ashes of the body
before the elapse of seventy two hours after the
cremation of any dead body.
(b) However, on a written request made by the applicant
the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall extend
the period during which the ashes are kept with the
Crematorium Keeper.
(c) The period of extension for the ashes to be kept in the
custody of the Crematorium Keeper under paragraph
(b) shall not be more than six weeks from the date of
the cremation.
(d) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or the
Crematorium Keeper shall have the power to dispose
of the ashes that had not been removed even after the
expiry of such period allowed for the removal of ashes.
(e) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized
Officer to make arrangements to bury the ashes not
removed by any applicant or any authorized
representative at the premises of the crematorium or
in any crematorium.
12. ( a) Nobody other than the Crematorium Keeper or his
Assistants shall enter into the covered section of the
chamber of the Crematorium after the closure of the
security door of the chamber on introducing the dead
body into the chamber of any crematorium.
(b) Nobody shall enter into the premises of any
crematorium without permission from the Chairman,
Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper.
(c) Notwithstanding anything stated in Paragraph (b) –
(i) any other person or persons who participate in
the handing over of a dead body for cremation
with the person who had obtained a licence to
cremate it or with his authorized representative,
and,
(ii) any other person or persons who arrive at the
crematorium on the specified date or earlier to
receive ashes, with the person who had obtained
the licence or with his authorized representative,
shall be considered as persons who have been allowed
to enter the premises of the crematorium.
13. Within the premises of any crematorium nobody shall, -
(a) act in a manner disrupting peace ;
(b) damage or try to damage property within the premises
of the crematorium belonging to the Urban  Council ;
(c) obstruct the official functions of the Crematorium
Keeper or any of his Assistants;
(d) decorate or paste notices within the premises of the
crematorium.
  14. ( a) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to maintain and
operate the crematoriums in conditions suitable for
cremation of dead bodies;
(b) In the event of the closure of any crematorium for the
purpose of repairs or maintenance activities it shall be
the duty of the Chairman to display prominently a
notice on it in all the three languages at the Office
issuing licences for cremation of dead bodies and at
the entrance to the crematorium premises.
15. In By-laws of this part, unless any other meaning is
sought,-
“ashes” means any matter left behind after cremating a
dead body;
“cremation chamber” means the chamber where the dead
body is kept and the outer chamber constructed
outside the main chamber;
“crematorium keeper” means any employee appointed
by the Council to be in-charge of the crematorium
and its functions;
“crematorium premise” means the whole crematorium
and the land on which it is located;
“dead body” means the entire dead body of a deceased
person or the dead body of a still born person or
any part of a dead body.

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1588
FIRST SCHEDULE
BY-LAW NO. 3
FEES FOR USE OF THE CREMATORIUM
Rs. cts.
01. To cremate the dead body of an adult living
in the area of authority.
… … …
02. To cremate the dead body of a person who
 is not an adult living in the area of authority
… … …
03. To cremate the dead body of an adult living
outside the area of authority.
… … …
04. To cremate the dead body of a person who is
not an adult, living outside the area of authority
.… … …
05. To cremate the dead body of an adult of a
Samurdhi family living in the area of authority
.… … …
06. To cremate the dead body of a person who is
not an adult of a Samurdhi family living in the area of
authority
… … …
A child below the age of 12 years is considered here as a
person who is not an adult.
SECOND SCHEDULE
B
Y-LAW NO.4
(To be forwarded in duplicate)
APPLICATION FOR A LICENCE TO CREMATE A DEAD BODY AT THE
CREMATORIUM OF … … … … … U RBAN COUNCIL
01. Full name of the applicant: - … … … … … … … … … …
Address: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card No.: - … … … … … … … … … …
Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: - … …
02.  Full Name of the deceased: - … … … … … … … … … …
Sex: - … … … … …
Address of the residence: - … … … … … … … … … … …
Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: - … …
National Identity Card No.: - … … … … … … … … … …
03. Applicant’s relationship to the deceased: - … … … … …
(Please annex a certificate stated in paragraph (a) of By-law
No. 5 in order to establish the relationship)
04. Registration No. and Date of the Death Certificate: - … …
(Annex a copy of the Death Certificate)
05. Name and Division of the Registrar of Deaths: - … … … …
06. Cause of Death: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
07. In the event of an inquiry being held into the Death:
(Annex the Certificate stated in Paragraph (b) of By-law
No. 5)
Name and Designation of the Inquiring Officer: - … …… …;
Date of Inquiry: - … … … … … … … …;
Determination of the Inquiring Officer: - … … … … … …;
Has the Inquiring officer given permission to cremate the
dead body?:  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
… … … … … … … … …
08. Date and time applied for the cremation: - … … … … … …
(According to the sequence of preference)
Date Time Date Time
(i) … … … 20 … … … Hours (ii) … … … 20 … … … Hours
(iii) … … … 20 … … … Hours (iv) … … … 20 … … … Hours
I hereby certify that the information stated above are true and
accurate. I further state that I take full responsibility for the
information given here. Relevant certificates are annexed.
… … … … … …,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:  … … … 20 … …

<!-- page 51 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1589
Second Schedule
Mr./Mrs./Miss … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
Sir / Madam
Refusal to issue a licence to cremate a dead body
It is regretted to inform you that the issuing of a licence in accordance with the application overleaf forwarded by you has been
refused for the following reasons:-
(i) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(ii) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(iii) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(iv) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(v) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
 … … … … … …
Signature of Chairman/Authorized
Officer
(Please affix the official seal).
Date: - … … … … … 20 … …
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
Crematorium Keeper,
 … … … … … … … …  Crematorium.
Licence issued to cremate a Dead Body
(a) Permission is hereby granted to cremate the dead body of  … … … … … … … …  at  … … … … … … … …  a.m. / p.m.
on  … … … … … … … … 20  … … … … … … … …  at the  … … … … … … … …  Crematorium.
(b) The information given in the application overleaf has been entered in the Register according to By-law, No. 6.
(c) A sum of Rs.  … … … … … … … … has been charged through Receipt No.  … … … … … … … …  dated  … … … …
… … … … 20.… … … …
(d) Please take action to cremate the dead body after making necessary entries in the relevant Register as stated in By-law,
No. 11 with reference to information given in this licence.
(e) the Serial Number of the Permit Register is  … … … … … … … …
 … … … … … … … …
Signature of the Chairman/Authorized Officer.
(Please affix the Official Seal).
Date:   … … … … … … … …

<!-- page 52 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1590
THIRD  SCHEDULE
REGISTER OF LICENCES ISSUED TO CREMATE DEAD BODIES AT THE CREMATORIUM OF … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … U RBAN COUNCIL
1.
2.
3.
4.
Death Certificate
Registration
Applicants
Order of the
Magistrate/
Inquirer-into-
Sudden
Deaths
Allotted Time
Rs. Cts.
No.
Permit No.
Date
Reference No.
Address
Name
Relationship to the
Deceased
No.
Date
Date of Death
Sex
NIC. No.
Name of the Deceased
Serial No.
NIC. No.
Receipts
Amount
Allotted Date
Cremation

<!-- page 53 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1591
FOURTH  SCHEDULE
REGISTER ON DEAD BODIES CREMATED AT THE CREMA TORIUM AT  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … U RBAN COUNCIL
1.
2.
3.
4.
Death Certificate
Registration Applicants
Rs. Cts.
No.
Permit No.
Name
No.
Date
Date of Death
Sex
  NIC. No.
Name of the Deceased
Serial No.
Receipts
Amount
Date of removal of
ashes
5.
6.
7.
8.
NIC. No.

<!-- page 54 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1592
PART XXV
BY-LAWS RELA TING TO PUBLIC MARKETS
1. The by-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating to
the conduct, regularize and supervision of the public markets
within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. The Urban Council  shall obey the following directives in
this By-law in regard to any public market constructed and
maintained by the Urban Council, viz:
(1) While all permanent buildings of the public market
shall be built with bricks, cement blocks or cabook
blocks the height of the walls shall be at least three
meters from the ground level.
(2) The roof shall be made of some permanent material.
(3) While the roof of the inner shopping stalls shall be
fitted with ceilings the ceilings shall be at a height of
2.85 meters from the ground level.
(4) While the front side of the inner shopping stalls shall
contain a corridor at least 2.5 meters wide, the place
where each shopping stall meets the corridor shall
contain a collapsible door or a door that could be
removed as planks.
(5) Platform banks and drains carrying away rain water,
at least one meter in width shall have been constructed
at the outer boundary of the walls and the outer
boundary of the corridor of the building containing
the shopping stalls.
(6) Trading platforms shall have been constructed for
temporary traders outside the shopping stalls of the
building.
(7) Every trading platform constructed inside the building
shall consist of a floor board made of concrete sheet
or stainless metal sheet placed on a bank made with
bricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks. However,
when the floor board is made with a concrete sheet it
shall be plastered with cement or tiled. When it is not
possible to construct trading platforms in this manner,
flat spaces shall be allocated on the floor and each
section shall be demarcated in white paint.
(8) The area of each trading platform shall not be less
than two square meters at least.
(9) While a roof covering each trading platform and
constructed at a height of at least 2.25 meters above
the floor level on posts made with bricks or cement
blocks or cabook blocks or galvanized iron bars or
reinforced aluminium bars shall be made available the
eaves shall be at a height of at least 2.1 meters above
the floor level. Moreover, when these posts are
constructed with bricks or cement blocks or cabook
blocks they shall be plastered and applied with paints
and if they are constructed with galvanized iron bars
they shall be painted.
(10) While every roof shall be constructed with solid
materials sufficient pipes shall have been fixed to drain
away water accumulated in the gutters.
(11) While platform banks at least one meter in width shall
have been constructed on the ground around every
trading platform, sufficient drains shall have been
provided to allow free flow of rain water.
(12) While a quality certificate issued by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board on the suitability of the
water used in the premises for human consumption
shall have been obtained this quality certificate shall
be obtained at least once in every six months. In the
event of the water being supplied by the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board is used at the
premises it shall be presumed that this certificate has
been obtained;
(13) In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft
drinks and activities of the premises being kept in
storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution
of water stored shall be put in place;
(14) While a sufficient number of separate lavatories and
urinals shall have been constructed for the use of the
males and females the floor of every lavatory and the
walls up to a minimum of two meters above the floor
level shall have been tiled.
(15) While sufficient electricity shall have been provided
to all shopping stalls, trading platforms, lavatories
and urinals and to all common areas including the
corridors every electric circuit shall have been covered
with a bad conductor covering.
(16) While every shopping stall shall have been fixed with
an electricity meter each a separate meter shall have
been fixed to measure the electricity units spent for
the electrification of common areas.
(17) Common water taps shall have been fixed within the
premises.
(18) A separate area shall have been allocated to wash
vegetables and fruits.
(19) W ater supplies shall have been provided to each
shopping stall that requires water due to the nature of
their business. While a separate water meter each shall
have been fixed for each of these supply points a
separate water meter each shall have been fixed to
measure the consumption of water at common taps
and at the places allocated for the washing of vegetables
and fruits.
(20) While a sufficient system of drains shall have been
provided to enable free flow of water accumulated
from rain water directly falling on the floor and the

<!-- page 55 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1593
roofs and water disposed of, from the place allocated
for the washing of vegetables and fruits arrangements
shall have been provided to allow free flow of such
waste water.
(21) While a sufficient fire protection programme shall have
been put in place, action shall have been taken to fix
different types of fire fighting equipment necessary
for the control of fire generated from electric circuits,
fire caused by fuels and fire generated due to any
other reason.
(22) A standard common scale shall have been kept at a
separate and prominent place with a view to weighting
and ensuring the weight of the goods purchased by
the consumers.
(23) It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to separate
the market into sections for sale of meat, fish,
vegetables, fruits, groceries and other commodities,
having taken into consideration the location of the
shopping stalls of the common market and also to
separate the trading platforms in the same manner.
(24) While tanks, receptacles or containers that could
accommodate waste generated in the premises and
categorized as:
(i) biodegradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper related materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or materials related to
polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other metals or pieces of iron and other
metals ;
(vi) dangerous waste ;
shall have been constructed in a separate area
of the public market the receptacle or tank
constructed to collect bio-degradable garbage
shall be provided with a lid that could be tightly
closed so that rats, flies, insects or any type of
bird could gain entry into it.
(25) A place shall be allotted to park motor bicycles and
bicycles.
(26) Sufficient parking facilities shall be provided to the
vehicles of consumers as well as those transporting
goods.
3. ( a) It shall be the duty of the lessee of any shopping stall
in the public market or any person who has obtained
a ticket to use any trading platform to categorize all
the waste generated at the shopping stall or nearby or
on the trading platform or nearby under the categories
of, -
(i) biodegradable waste;
(ii) glass;
(iii) paper or paper related matter;
(iv) polythene or plastics or materials related to
polythene or plastics and regiform;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or pieces of iron
and other metals;
(vi) dangerous waste;
and to dump them into separate containers or
receptacles or tanks constructed by the Urban
Council to dump each kind of garbage.
(b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take action to
place in suitable places of the public market small
scale containers which facilitate disposal of garbage
categorized under paragraph (a), for dumping garbage
disposed of by the visitors to the public market.
Meanwhile action shall be taken to dump the contents
of these containers at sufficient time intervals into
containers or receptacles or tanks relevant to garbage
stated in paragraph (a).
(c) Nobody shall dump garbage of any kind other than
those categorized to be dumped into a particular
container, receptacle or tank placed in the public market
to collect garbage;
(d) Except when garbage is dumped or taken out of the
container or receptacle or tank constructed for the
dumping of biodegradable garbage under the provisions
of paragraph (24) of  By-law No. 2, the lid of that
container or receptacle or tank shall be tightly closed
always.
4. ( a) The space allocated for trading purposes in any public
market shall mean, -
(i) the section from the back wall of the shopping
stall up to the limit of the door stated in
paragraph (4) of By-law No.2, in case of
shopping stalls;
(ii) the surface area of the trading platform and the
area behind the trading platform allowed to be
used by the trader engaged in sales, in case of a
trading platform.
(b) In case of any materials or goods brought into the
public market for sale or any instrument or anything
else used in trading activities, they shall not be kept or
allowed to be kept on any corridor or platform bank
except when they are brought into the market or taken
out of it.

<!-- page 56 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1594
(c) While no type of trading activities shall be pursued in
a corridor or on a platform bank inside the public
market, any action causing disturbances to persons
walking along the corridor or over the platform banks
shall not be done.
5. Nobody shall engage in cooking activities in any place other
than a hotel, eating house, restaurant or tea or coffee shop
situated inside the public market.
6. In any public market owned by the Urban Council  nobody
shall, -
(1) Conduct himself in any undisciplined manner
or quarrel or use indecent words or beg ;
(2) Remain inside the premises after the closure of
the public market at the end of daily activities;
(3) Damage or harm or disfigure or deface any
building, construction or fitting or any flower
plant grown or kept as a decoration or name
board or any other thing ;
(4) Pollute or waste or cause to be wasted or
squander in any other way the water supplied
for use or bathe or wash clothes and animals
with that water or wash vegetables and fruits
in any other place than that allocated for that
purpose;
(5) Fix any advertising boards of any form other
than the name board of the shopping stall,
display banners or do any other type of
advertising unless formally allowed by the
Chairman;
(6) Keep goods in a manner causing obstacles to
reach the main switchboard providing
electricity connection or damage the main
switchboard;
(7) Get electricity connections fraudulently from
the main electricity cable or any other cables
laid within the building in order to supply
electricity ;
(8) Get water supplies fraudulently from the main
pipe or any other pipe lay within the building
in order to supply water;
(9) keep goods causing obstructions to reach the
fire fighting instruments fixed in the building or
damaging the main switchboard ;
(10) Sell or display for sale any type of vegetables,
fruits, meat or fish except at a designated place
or let others to do so;
(11) Bring bicycles or motor cycles into the premises
or let others to do so;
(12) Dump garbage disposed of from any sales point
onto any other place in the public market other
than into any container or tank supplied by the
Pradeshiya Sabha  in accordance with provisions
in by-law No. 3.
7. ( a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of
a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsed
no person suffering from such disease or had contacted
such a disease in the recent past or had been recently
nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease
shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody
else engage in service in a licensed premises or as an
assistant of any person engaged in service at such a
premises;
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean
clothes no person shall engage himself or employ anybody
else in any duty at a licensed premise.
8. It shall be the duty of the lessees of all the shopping stalls
and the user or the consumer of all trading platforms to clean
by sweeping the said shopping stall and the front corridor
and the platform bank or the surface of the trading platform
and the area around it at the beginning of daily activities and
at the end or if required on one or many occasions in between
and to dump or cause to be dumped the garbage accumulated
after sweeping, in the manner stated in By-law No. 3 into a
container or tank supplied by the Urban Council.
9. It shall be the duty of the person engaged in sales activities at
every trading stall and trading platform selling or exhibiting
for sale vegetables, fruits, meat, fish or other kinds of food or
beverages and   every hotel, eating house, tea or coffee shop
including a restaurant to suitably wash or scratch and clean
or cause anyone else to wash or scratch and clean at the end
of the day’s activities every trading stall, table, bench, plank
displaying goods and cupboard.
10. Nobody shall sell or exhibit for sale any type of goods other
than those types of goods or materials for which a particular
trading stall or any trading platform in any public market has
been allocated.
11. Nobody shall leave behind any commodity or goods or
garbage at the end of the day’s activities on any trading
platform constructed outside the trading stalls of the public
market.
12. Nobody shall sell or exhibit for sale or store meat at a meat
stall in the public market unless it is meat of an animal
slaughtered at a slaughter house having a formal licence issued
under the provisions of the Butchers Ordinance.
13. When an order has been published in the  Gazette  by the
Authorized officer pursuant to powers in Section 17 of the
Butchers Ordinance banning the slaughter of animals for meat
on any particular day in any slaughter house, nobody shall
keep meat for sale or exhibit meat for sale or store meat at
any meat stall being maintained in the public  market.

<!-- page 57 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1595
14. Nobody shall bring or let anybody else to bring a dog or cat
or any other animal or a bird into the premises of the public
market. This shall not be understood as a Provision
preventing the bringing of a Police official dog by any Police
Officer into the public market for any inquiry.
15. While action shall be taken to switch off all electric lamps,
electric fans and other electric utensils in any trading stall
on any occasion when the public market is completely closed
having ended the trading activities and on every occasion
when the lessee is going out having closed any stall in the
public market, it is the duty of the lessee to take action to
extinguish any fire or coconut oil lamps burning within the
stall. However, refrigerators and deep freezers used in
preserving food or beverages shall not be subjected to this
provision. Moreover, nobody shall light or let somebody
else light any form of flame that could be a threat to the
security of the public market or light or let somebody else
light fire crackers in any place within the premises of the
public market.
16. Nobody shall dump any garbage generated in any place
outside the premises of any public market into any container,
receptacle or tank made available to dump garbage generated
within the particular public market.
17. It shall be the duty of the Chairman  to make arrangements
to clean by washing using disinfectants every lavatory and
urinal within the premises of the pubic market at least thrice
a day and to clean by washing every drain constructed to
allow free flow of water at least twice a day.
18. It shall be the duty of the Chairman  to make arrangements
to remove at least once a day or on more occasions if
necessary, the garbage accumulated in every container,
receptacle or tank constructed in the manner specified in
the paragraph (24) of By-law No. 2. Moreover, action shall
be taken to transport such garbage out of the premises in a
vehicle having fully covered the part containing such garbage.
19. It shall be the duty of the Chairman  to make arrangements
to remove at least once a day the soil or sand or other matter
accumulated at the place allocated for washing vegetables or
fruits and to prevent obstacles to the free flow of water at
that place.
20. It shall be the duty of the Chairman  to make arrangements
to examine at least once whether the functioning of the fire
fighting equipment fixed at the public market is in order and
to fix new equipment in place of those rendered non-
functional.
21. ( a)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman  to make
arrangements to apply paints at least once a year on all
the walls of the trading stalls except the inner walls,
the parts plastered with cement in every trading
platform, constructions made with galvanized iron and
other parts of the ceilings except the inner ceiling of
the trading stalls in the public market;
(b) It shall be the duty of the lessee of the trading stalls to
apply paints at least once a year on the inner walls of
the trading stalls, the constructions made with galvanized
iron and the inner ceiling of the trading stalls in the
public market.
22. Anybody who has obtained a ticket under the provisions of
By-law No. 27 to use or utilize any trading platform in the
public market shall not transfer that ticket or engage in trading
in any other place than that, for which the ticket has been
issued. When the Chairman  or the Authorized Officer is
sufficiently convinced of the fact that anybody had acted in
this manner, the Chairman  or the Authorized Officer shall
have the power to direct such person to engage in trading
activities at the prescribed location or to eject him from the
public market having prevented him in engaging in trading
activities on that date or to cancel the ticket issued to him.
23. Anybody who has leased a shopping stall at any public
market or obtained a ticket to use or utilize any trading
platform shall not allow anybody else to sell or to exhibit for
sale any commodity or to use for any other purpose, the
premises or part thereof, of the shopping stall or the trading
platform allocated for his trading activities.
24. Unless the Urban Council  had come to a decision and given
permission for the particular activity nobody shall undertake
any type of construction or fixture or alteration or partitioning
that would alter or damage the overall plan of any shopping
stall in the public market.
25. Unless the Urban Council  had come to a decision and given
permission for the particular activity nobody shall undertake
any type of construction or fixture or alteration or partitioning
that would alter  or damage the overall plan of any trading
platform in the public market and shall not erect a trading
platform or make a partitioning in any place within the public
market.
26. The  Urban Council shall determine from time to time the
dates and time the public market maintained by the Urban
Council  shall be kept open. It shall be the duty of the
Chairman  to make  arrangements to publish a notification in
all the three languages as to what the dates and times the
public market is opened and to prominently display such a
notification at the entrance to the public market, as determined
by the Urban Councl.
 27. ( a) Every person who needs to use or utilize any trading
platform built outside the shopping stalls of the
public market shall obtain a valid ticket issued under
the authority or upon it under the provisions of the
By-laws in this part;
(b) The ticket issued under the provision in paragraph
(a) shall be substantially prepared according to the
specimen given in the First Schedule.

<!-- page 58 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1596
28. Unless somebody is a holder of a valid ticket issued under
the provisions of the By-law No. 27 or an employee or a
sub agent of him and conform to the orders and conditions
of the By-laws in this part, nobody shall use or utilize a
trading platform built outside the shopping stalls of the
public market.
29. The charges to be paid to the Urban Council  for trading
platforms built outside the shopping stalls of the public
market under the provisions in By-law No. 27 shall be
determined by the Urban Council  from time to time in
accordance with the manner set out in the table in Second
Schedule. In the same manner the Urban Council  shall alter
or amend the rates from time to time.
30. Unless somebody is a person who has entered into a tenancy
agreement with the Urban Council  under the provisions of
the By-laws in this part or his employee or sub-agent and
conform with the orders and conditions of the By-laws in
this part and the said tenancy agreement, nobody shall use
or utilize any shopping stall in the public market.
31. (a) It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to perform
the task of selecting a lessee to use or utilize any
shopping stall in the building of the public market,
being not a meat stall and to lease it out to the lessee
through public tender;
(b) When calling for tenders to lease out any shopping
stall under paragraph (a) the decision on the monthly
rental payable for the said shopping stall shall be made
in accordance with the valuation of the Chief Valuation
Officer.
(c) (i) The occasion that arises when the lessee has
on his own free will got the agreement repealed;
or
(ii) the occasion that arises when the tenancy
agreement has been repealed or being repealed
due to violation of the provisions of the By-
laws in this part or violation of the conditions
of the tenancy agreement; or
(iii) the occasion when the lessee has died leaving
no spouse or child,
shall be considered as the occasions when tenders
shall be called to select a lessee under paragraph
(a). Meanwhile, unless any lessee has rejected
validation of the said tenancy agreement for any
subsequent year or wilfully avoid such opportunity
for validation, it shall not be considered that the
tenancy agreement signed by the Urban Council
and the lessee has been invalidated.
32. The lessee selected to use or utilize any shopping stall,
through public tender under the provisions of By-law No.
31 shall enter into an agreement with the Urban Council.
33. Notwithstanding anything stated in By-law No. 31 it shall
be lawful to consider the lessee mentioned in the tenancy
agreement signed lately with the Urban Council  in respect of
each shopping stall in any public market owned by the Urban
Council  on the date the By-laws in this part come into force,
as the lessee selected to use or utilize the said shopping stall
under By-law 31 effective from the date of such enforcement.
Moreover, any lessee in respect of whom this By-law is
relevant further, shall enter into a new tenancy agreement
within a period of three months from the date the By-laws in
Section are  effective.
 34. (a) While any agreement signed with the Urban Council
under the provisions of By-laws No. 32 and 33 shall
be valid only for a period of one year, the period of
validity of the tenancy of the said shopping stall could
be extended for a further period of one year on arriving
at a new agreement with the Urban Council for the
subsequent year, before one month of the expiry of
the said period of one year. The lessee shall have the
right to use or utilize the said shopping stall after
getting the period of lease of the said shopping stall
validated annually for any subsequent year in the same
manner;
(b) However, it shall be the duty of the Chairman  to
decide in accordance with the valuation of the Chief
Valuation Officer, the monthly rental that shall be
paid during the said subsequent year for the use and
utilization of the said shopping stall by any lessee
having validated the period of lease under paragraph
(a).
35. Unless action has been taken to get validated the period of
lease for the subsequent year under By-law No. 34 before
the expiry of one month from the date of the expiry of the
period of lease of any shopping stall, no lessee shall have the
right to use or utilize the said shopping stall after the expiry
of the last day of the said month.
36. Nobody shall take action to sublet any shopping stall in the
public market. Any loss or harm or damage caused to any
sub-lessee as a result of the cancellation of the agreement
entered into between the  Urban Council and the lessee of
the said shopping stall due to subletting of any shopping
stall by anybody and as a result of vesting back the said
shopping stall to the Urban Council  shall be vested with the
said sub-lessee. Meanwhile the Urban Council  or the
Chairman  or the Authorized Officer shall not be subjected
to responsibility in this regard.
37. The lessee of any shopping stall in a public market maintained
by the Urban Council  shall not sub-lease or rent out the said
shopping stall meanwhile when the Chairman  is of opinion
that sufficient facts to satisfy him about the fact that any
sub-lessee has taken action to sub-let or rent out the said
shopping stall or that provisions of the By-laws in this part

<!-- page 59 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1597
or the provisions contained in the relevant tenancy agreement
have been violated, it is the duty of the Chairman  to inform
the relevant lessee in writing to terminate the said sub-lease
or hiring.
38. In the event of any person issued with a notice as stated in
By-law No. 37 having facts to submit any protest or protests
against the facts stated in the notification, such person shall
have the right to submit in writing an appeal to the Chairman
, within 14 days of the receipt of such notification, setting
out the facts in respect of such protest or protests.
Moreover, it shall be the duty of the Chairman  to hold an
inquiry about the protest or protests within 14 days of the
receipt of the notification containing the facts about the
protest or protests.
39. If it is established at the protest inquiry held by the Chairman
in accordance with the By-law No. 38 that the facts stated
in the letter sent by the Chairman  under the provisions of
By-law No. 37 are true  or that the lessee had been unable to
rectify the sub-letting or renting out until the day of the said
protest inquiry it shall be considered that the tenancy
agreement signed between the lessee and the Urban Council
has become null and void. Moreover it shall be the duty of
the Chairman  to vest the said shopping stall with the Urban
Council  within 7 days of the said protest inquiry.
Furthermore, the Chairman  shall follow the provisions in
By-law No. 31 to lease any shopping stall acquired by the
Urban Council.
40. Notwithstanding anything stated in By-laws No. 36 to No.
39 the provisions in these By-laws shall not be an obstacle
in vesting the tenancy right of any shopping stall owned by
the Urban Council  to the spouse or child of the lessee on the
request of the lessee or on his death.
41. ( a) Every lessee selected by the Urban Council  to use or
utilize a shopping stall in any public market being
maintained by the Urban Council , shall deposit in
the Council -
(i) a security deposit to the value determined upon
by the Urban Council  at the time when tenders
were called for the selection of lessees;
(ii) a deposit equal in amount to three times the
monthly rent as stated in the agreement signed
under the provisions of the By law No. 32 or
By-law No. 33.
(b) Unless the provisions in paragraph  (a)  have been
fulfilled in the manner set out nobody shall be allowed
to use or utilize any shopping stall in any public
market maintained by the Council.
(c) Unless any lessee for whom the provisions of the
By-law 33 are relevant has fulfilled the provisions in
paragraph (a) before the expiry of a period of six
months from the date agreements were signed with
the Council as set out in the said By-law the use or
utilization of that shopping stall after the expiry of
the said period of six months shall not be lawful.
42. ( a) While it is necessary that the date of payment of rent
payable for each month by the lessee to the Urban
Council  shall be specifically stated in the agreement
on the lease of any shopping stall in the public market
it is the duty of the lessee to pay the said amount of
rent to the Urban Council on or before the particular
date;
(b) On any occasion when any lessee is unable to pay the
monthly rent to the Urban Council  on or before the
date agreed upon in accordance with the agreement
signed in the manner set out in paragraph (a) the lessee
is subject to pay a late fee amounting to ten percent of
the relevant monthly payments. Moreover, this
provision shall have been included in the relevant
agreement;
(c) On any occasion when any lessee has failed to pay
the monthly rental due to be paid to the Council and
when that arrears of rental are for a period of more
than three months, it is the duty of the Secretary to
hand over a written notification to the lessee indicating
the repercussions set out in paragraphs (d) and (e) of
this By-law and requesting him to pay the arrears of
rentals and the late fee mentioned in paragraph (b).
Moreover it shall have been indicated in the notification
that in the event of further failure to pay the arrears of
rentals and late fees in accordance with this notification
action shall be taken to seal the shopping stall and sell
any property belonging to the lessee. The notification
shall also indicate the specific day in the future that
such actions would be taken by the Council;
(d) In the event of the failure to pay the said arrears of
rentals and the late fees to the Council within seven
days of the receipt of the notification by any lessee
who had been issued with such notification under
paragraph (c), it shall be the duty of the Chairman  to
seal the relevant shopping stall;
(e) The Secretary shall have the power to credit to the
fund of the Council any money after recovering the
said arrears of rentals, the late fees and any money
spent on the sealing of the shopping stall and on selling
the property belonging to the lessee found in the stall,
on opening the door having broken the seals placed on
the door or doors of the said stall in front of the
relevant lessee or any other substitute of him
authorized by letter, in the event of their arrival at the
location or in front of two other officials of the Council
in the absence of the lessee or his substitute, after the

<!-- page 60 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1598
lapse of one day and before the expiry of seven days
after taking action under the provisions of paragraph
(a). Moreover such action shall be lawful;
(f) Notwithstanding anything stated in paragraphs  (d) and
(e) the lessee shall have the right to get any further
action stated in paragraphs  (d) and (e) terminated by
paying back to the Urban Council  the arrears of rentals,
late fees and any other sum of money borne by the
Council as a result of the need to take such action, on
any occasion when it was attempted to act in the
manner stated in the said paragraph or on any occasion
in between these two occasions. Furthermore, it shall
be the duty of the Secretary to desist from acting in
that manner after collecting such money fully;
(g) It shall not be understood that the agreement signed in
respect of leasing the said shopping stall had been
cancelled as a result of taking action under any
paragraph from paragraph (c) to paragraph (f) of this
By-law or under some of these paragraphs or under all
of these paragraphs ;
(h) Notwithstanding anything stated in paragraph ( g) the
Secretary shall take action to inform the lessee in
writing about the failure to make payments in the
event of failure to do so even after two occasions of
sealing the said shopping stall in the manner set out in
paragraph (d) during the course of one year as a result
of the failure to pay rentals for any stall by the said
lessee. Moreover the agreement signed with the Council
by the lessee shall cease to exist effective from the
date of receipt of this notification.
43. The lessee shall bear the cost of the bills payable monthly in
respect of the units of water and units of electricity consumed
by any lessee through water and electricity connections
obtained in respect of all shopping stalls in the public market.
44. Nobody shall obtain or allow anybody else to obtain an
electricity connection or water connection to a shopping stall
from any electrical circuit or common water tap put in place
for public use in the premises of the public market.
45. Any officer authorized by the Secretary shall be employed
to issue tickets to and to levy money on those tickets, any
person who needs to use or utilize trading platforms except
trading stalls in the public market. Furthermore, it shall be
the duty of the Authorized Officer to take action to credit
money collected daily on issuing such tickets to the common
fund of the Council before 3.00 p.m. on each day of collection.
If any money collected on issuing tickets at the public market
after action had been taken by the Authorized Officer to
credit the money collected in the common fund of the Council
on a certain day is still left, such monies shall be credited to
the common fund of the Council on the following day.
46. In the event of the inability to employ any officer authorized
by the Secretary to issue tickets to and collect money from
any person wishing to use or utilize the trading platforms in
the public market, except trading stalls, in the manner set out
in By-law No. 45, the Urban Council  shall have the power
to allocate the task to a person selected on calling public
tenders, hereinafter referred to as the “Tax Collector”.
47. While assignment of duties for any Tax Collector selected
under By-law 46 shall be valid only for one year, a Tax
Collector shall be selected again for the following year through
tenders. However, it shall not be understood that the
provisions of this by-law has prevented any Tax Collector
selected for the previous year in submitting tenders for the
following year and being selected as the Tax Collector for the
following year in the event of the Council deciding to accept
his tender application.
  48 . ( a) When a Tax Collector has been selected under the
provisions of By-law No. 45, he shall take action to -
(i) deposit in the Urban Council  a refundable
security deposit in a value decided upon by the
Urban Council   at the time of calling tenders
for such selection;
(ii) arrive at an agreement with the Urban Council
in respect of issuing such tickets and collecting
money;
(iii) deposit in the Urban Council  a deposit equal
to one third or more of the annual fees agreed
upon by the agreement signed under the
provision of sub-paragraph (ii).
(b) Unless the provisions set out in paragraph ( a) have
been fulfilled in the manner stated therein, nobody
shall be allowed to use or utilize trading platforms in
any public market being maintained by the Urban
Council  , to issue tickets to people wishing to engage
in trading and to collect money for such tickets.
49. No Tax Collector shall levy a charge or charges exceeding
the charges determined by the Urban Council for use or
utilization of trading platforms in any public market.
50. It shall be the duty of the Urban Council  to include the
following as accepted conditions in the agreement to be
signed by the Pradeshiya Sabha  with any Tax Collector
according to sub-paragraph (ii) in paragraph ( a) of By-law
No. 48 :–
(a) the manner in which tickets shall be issued in order to
use or utilize trading platforms;
(b) the manner in which money shall be collected for the
said tickets and the maximum amount of money that
shall be charged;

<!-- page 61 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1599
(c) the total amount of money to be paid by the Tax
Collector to the Council for the year of agreement;
(d) the fact that the said annual money shall be paid to
the Urban Council  in twelve equal instalments and
the value of one such instalment ;
(e) the date on which the money that shall be paid for
each month is to be paid to the Urban Council ;
(f) the fact that the Tax Collector is required to pay to
the Urban Council  a late fee amounting to ten percent
of the monthly charges in the event of failure to pay
that money on the due date;
(g) the termination of the power vested in the Tax
Collector to issue tickets to those willing to use or
utilize trading platforms in the public market and charge
money on behalf of these tickets from the date of the
receipt of a notification from the Secretary in writing
on the fact that the agreement is subject to cancellation
under the provisions of the By-law No. 51 and that
the agreement has been declared null and void in the
event of the failure to pay the money due to be paid
to the Urban Council   for a period of more than three
months.
51. ( a) It shall be the duty of the Secretary to hand over a
notification in writing to the Tax Collector demanding
the payment of the arrears and late fees in the event of
the failure of the Tax Collector to pay to the Urban
Council  the monthly dues and when the arrears are
for a period of more than three months.
(b) In the event of the failure of any Tax Collector to pay
to the  Urban Council   the arrears of payments and
the late fees within seven days of the receipt of a
notification under paragraph (a) the agreement signed
by the Urban Council  with the relevant Tax Collector
shall be considered to be rendered null and void with
effect from the expiry of seven days from the receipt
of that notification by him, and such cancellation shall
be lawful. Moreover, it shall be the duty of the
Secretary to inform in writing to the relevant Tax
Collector about the cancellation of the said agreement
on the day it is considered cancelled.
(c) The Tax Collector who was a party to any agreement
cancelled under the provisions of the provisions in
paragraph ( b) shall not, on any occasion after the
cancellation of that agreement issue tickets to anybody
or collect money for such tickets from anybody to
use or utilize the trading platforms of the said public
market.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Secretary to employ any
Authorized Officer of the Urban Council  to issue
tickets and collect money on behalf of those tickets to
use or utilize the trading platforms of the public market
with effect from the day after the day of the cancellation
of any agreement under provisions in paragraph ( b).
Moreover, in the event of the Secretary being of
opinion that it is not possible to get the task performed
any further by an Authorized Officer, he shall forward
his opinion to the Urban Council  through the Secretary
in order to take action according to the provisions in
By-law No. 46. When the opinion of the Secretary
has been forwarded to the Council in the above manner
the Urban Council  shall take a decision to take action
in accordance with By-law No. 46.
(e) On any occasion when the Urban Council   has come
to a decision to act in accordance with By-law No. 46
as set out in paragraph (d), the Tax Collector who was
a party to the cancelled agreement shall have the right
to submit a tender application in accordance with the
said tender notice.
52. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the
particular function has been obtained no person shall maintain
funeral service centre in the Urban Council  area.
53. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of
this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under the
provisions of the By-laws in this part.
54. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part
are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a licence to funeral
service centre.
55. Everybody engaged in trading activities in shopping stalls
and trading platforms in any private market shall obey the
provisions in By-laws Nos. 2 to 21 with amendments subject
to provisions in By-law No. 57 and furthermore it shall be
the duty of the licensee of that market to ensure that the said
persons obey these provisions.
56. It shall be the duty of the licensee of every private market to
obey the provisions in the By-laws No. 2 to By-law No. 21
with amendments subject to provisions in By law No. 57.
57. The following terms contained in the By-laws No. 2 to No.
21 shall convey the meaning given against it for the purposes
of By-law No. 55, in respect of any private market :-
(a) “public market” means the said private market;
(b) “lessee” means the person engaged in business at any
shopping stall in the said private market or his
substitute or the person in charge of the said shopping
stall for the time being ;

<!-- page 62 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1600
(c) “Chairman ” or ‘‘Urban Council” means the licensee
of the said private market or his substitute or the
person in charge of the functions and duties of the
said private market for the time being.
58. It shall be the duty of the licensee to display prominently at
the entrance of the said private market a notice or notices in
all the three languages about the dates and time on which any
private market a notice or notices in all the three languages
about the dates and time on which any private market is
kept open.
59. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food kept for sale or
displayed for sale in the premises of any public market or
any private market, no licensee shall desist or prevent such
purchase.
60. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by
an Authorized Officer of the provisions of the By-laws in
this part shall mean any occasion when a public market or a
private market is opened for business activities.
61. In the event of the premises where any private market is
maintained under a licence issued under the By-laws of this
part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the
provisions set out in By-law No. 2 to be read with By-law
No. 57 or contravenes the provisions of any By-law of the
by-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to
issue a notice to the said  licensee demanding him to
accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises
to the prescribed position before a specified date.
62. Any license in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law No.
61 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before the
date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable
reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall
have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice.
However, the period of such extension shall not be more
than four days.
63. When any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law
No. 62 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out in
the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date
extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the
licence issued to that premises.
64. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“chief valuation officer” means the Chief Valuation Officer
of the Department of Valuation and it shall also include
any officer appointed by the said Department on behalf
of the Administrative District to which the Urban
Council belongs;
“lessee” means any person maintaining any shopping stall
in any public market under an agreement with the Urban
Council ;
“private market” means any place where activities similar to
those carried out in a public market are carried out by
anybody or a body of persons not being the Urban
Council;
“public market” means any place where shopping stalls
constructed for the purpose of engaging in sales or where
facilities are put in place for the sale of goods and
commodities including vegetables or fruits produced in
their own home gardens or homes and a place erected
and being maintained by the Council, and it shall also
include a place where any product is bought or sold
wholesale;
“spouse” means the legal wife or husband of any lessee;
“trading platform” means any bench, or plank or box erected
for the purpose of day to day sales within a public
market, separated from the shopping stalls in the said
market, and it includes any place demarcated for sales
activities by drawing lines on the floor of the said public
market.
First Schedule
Paragraph (a) of By-law No. 27
(The counterfoil shall be arranged as a booklet)
…  … … … … … … … … … … … …  Urban Council  … …
… … … … …  Public Market
Ticket for the use or utilization of a trading
platform
Name of the holder of the ticket: … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card No. : … … … … … … … … … … … …
Number of the trading platfrom or the demarcated area: … … …
Duration of allotment:
From … … …   20… ……  to … … … … … 20… … …
Number of days allotted: 01 day / 07 days / 01 month
Fees charged : Rs. … … … … … … …
Date of issue: … … … … … … … 20… … … …
… … … … … … … … … …
Signature of the Tax Collector
(Strike off inapplicable words.)

<!-- page 63 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1601
Second Schedule
By-law No. 29
Table of Fees charged for the use or utilization of a trading platform in a public market
Nature of the
trading platform
Fees for
a day
Rs.
Fees for
7 days
Rs.
Fees for
a month
Rs.
Trading platform built above the floor level
Area separated by marking on the floor
PART XXVI
BY-LAWS RELATING TO PLAYGROUNDS
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating
to regularizing, control and supervision of public
playgrounds within the area of authority of the Urban
Council.
2. Anybody who expects to obtain a permit to make use of
any playground owned  by the Urban Council shall
forward an application substantially prepared in
accordance with the specimen given in the First Schedule
of the By-laws in this part.
3. Unless the following conditions have been fulfilled in
issuing a permit to make use of any playground owned
by the Urban Council to anybody forwarding an
application as stated in By-law No. 2, the Chairman shall
not issue a permit.
(a) All applications for issue of a permit to make use of
the playgrounds shall be considered in the sequence
in which they were received by the Urban Council.
However, high priority shall be given to any
application in respect of any matter relevant to any
sport or sports from among the applications received
for the use of a playground;
(b) The permit shall be issued only after payment of fees
for reservation of the playgrounds and deposit money
on the basis of decisions made by the Council from
time to time in accordance with the table set out in the
Second Schedule.
4. Forwarding of an application to reserve a playground for
use shall be done at least three days before the expected
day of such use. An application made by anybody shall
be forwarded at any time before the period of three days
prior to the date on which the playground shall be reserved.
Furthermore, the reservation made according to the said
request shall be subjected to the provisions in By-law
No. 5.
5. In the event of any applicant needing the cancellation of
the reservation of any playground after it had been
reserved under the provisions of the By-laws in this part,
the Chairman shall allow such cancellation, subject to the
following conditions:
(a) When the application for cancellation of the reservation
is forwarded,
(i) three months prior to the date on which the
playground was reserved, five percent of the
fees paid;
(ii) two months prior to the date on which the
playground was reserved, ten percent of the
fees paid;
(iii) one month prior to the date on which the
playground was reserved, fifteen percent of the
fees paid;
(iv) fifteen days prior to the date on which the
playground was reserved, twenty five percent
of the fees paid;
(v) Seven days prior to the date on which the
playground was reserved, fifty percent of the
fees paid;

<!-- page 64 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1602
(vi) Three days prior to the date on which the
playground was reserved, seventy five percent
of the fees paid.
shall be subjected to withholding in the funds
of the Urban Council;
(b) When the application for cancellation of the reservation
is forwarded in a period of time less than three days to
the date on which the playground was reserved the
fees paid shall not be refunded.
(c) When any reservation has been cancelled the applicant
shall have the right to get the money deposited for
such reservation refunded fully;
(d) A playground reserved by any person shall not be
used for any other purpose than that for which it was
reserved.
(e) A permit issued in respect of reserving a playground
shall not be transferred on any ground to any other
person.
6. When an application forwarded for the reservation of a
playground by any person is rejected it is the duty of the
Chairman to inform the applicant in writing on the day of
such application itself about the reasons for such rejection.
7. In the event of the necessity to get the date of reservation of
any playground changed the applicant shall forward a written
request in this regard to the Chairman. The amendment of the
date of reservation made according to such request shall be
subject to provisions in By-law Nos. 3 and 4.
8. On any occasion when any playground has not been reserved
for any purpose according to the provisions of the By-laws
in this part, it shall be the duty of the Chairman to allow such
playground to be used for sports activities or training in
sports.
9. Only any money left behind after deducting, -
(a) the cost of any damage caused to the playground or
any section of it, in the event of such damages being
caused and
(b) the fees that shall be paid on behalf of the extra period
of time the playground was utilized,
shall be paid back to the applicant, out of the deposit
money deposited at the Urban Council, after the use
of any playground reserved for any purpose.
10. While nobody shall damage or let anybody else damage a
playground owned by the Urban Council, action shall not
be taken to lead cattle, pigs, horses, ponies, asses or dogs
into the playground. Furthermore, action shall not be taken
to enter any vehicle into any playground without obtaining
permission from the Chairman.
11. In the event of any playground reserved under the
provisions of the By-laws in this part being required for
any essential matter of the Urban Council, on the day of
such reservation itself, the Chairman shall have the power
to cancel such reservation.However, if such cancellation
is effected the applicant shall be informed in writing about
the cancellation three days prior to the date of such
reservation of the playground and the fees paid by him
and the deposit money shall be refunded fully.
Furthermore, such cancellation shall not be effected less
than three days prior to the date of reservation.
12. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“playground” means any playground allocated by the
Urban Council for the purpose of sports and it
shall include the wall or fence erected around the
playground or any building constructed within the
playground or any section of such construction or
any fittings or instruments.
“sports” shall have the same interpretation contained in
the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973.
FIRST SCHEDULE
B
Y-LAW NO. 2
Application for permission to use the … … … … … … …
Playground in … … … … … Urban Council
01. Name of the Applicant: … … … … … … … … … … … …
Address:  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card No.: … … … … … … … … … …
02. Reason for application: - … … … … … … … … … … … …
03. Date and Time when the playground is required:
From … … … … … … To … … … … … … Time … … …
I hereby certify that the above information is true and accurate.
In the event of the allocation of the relevant playground as a result
of this request I agree that the Urban Council shall deduct the cost
of any damages caused to the buildings, constructions, instruments
and fittings of the playground if and when such damage is caused.
Meanwhile, in the event of the said deposit being not sufficient to
affect such recoveries, I agree to pay any further amount of money
require in this respect. Moreover, I agree to obey the provisions in
By-laws relating to the regularizing, control and supervision of the
playgrounds.
… … … … … … … …
Date :- … … … … Signature of the Applicant.

<!-- page 65 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1603
PART XXVII
BY - LAWS  RELA TING  TO  COMMUNITY  CENTRES
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating
to regularizing, control and supervision of Community
Centres within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
2. Anybody who expects to obtain a permit to make use of
any Community Centres owned by the Urban Council.
shall forward an application  substantially prepared in
accordance with the specimen given in the First Schedule
of the by-laws in this part.
3. Unless the following conditions have been fulfilled in
issuing a permit to make use of any Community Centre
owned by the Urban Council to anybody forwarding an
application as stated in By-law No. 2, the Chairman shall
not issue a permit:–
(a) All applications for issue of a permit to make use of
the Community Centres shall be considered in the
sequence in which they were received by the Urban
Council.  However, high priority shall be given to any
application in respect of any matter relevant to any
sport or sports from among the applications received
for the use of a Community Centre.
(b) The permit shall be issued only after payment of fees
for reservation of the Community Centres and deposit
money on the basis of decisions made by the Council
from time to time in accordance with the table set out
in the Second Schedule;
(c) Notwithstanding anything stated in paragraph (b) no
charges shall be made in respect of any meeting of a
civil organization in the area where Community Centre
is located or in respect of any public event being held
by such organization.
Name of the Playground Fees
Rs. Cts.
Deposit
Rs. Cts.
Fees for an
extra hour
Rs. Cts.
1.
2.
3.
4.
.
Second Schedule
PARAGRAPH (b) BY LAW NO. 3
TABLE OF FEES CHARGED FOR THE USE OF A PLAYGROUND
4. Forwarding of application to allocate a Community Centre
for use shall be done at least three days before the
expected day of such use. However, this limitation shall
not apply in respect of a request to allocate a Community
Centre in order to keep a dead body of anybody who had
living in the Urban Council area, or of a relative of such a
person. An application made by anybody shall be
forwarded at any time before the period of three days
prior to the date on which the Community Centre shall
be allocated. Furthermore, the allocation made according
to the said request shall be subjected to the provisions in
By-law No. 5.
5. In the event of any applicant needing the cancellation of
the reservation of any Community Centre after it had
been reserved under the provisions of the By-laws in
this part, the Chairman shall allow such cancellation,
subject to the following conditions:
(a) When the application for cancellation of the reservation
is forwarded—
(i) three months prior to the date on which the
Community Centre was reserved, five percent
of the fees paid,
(ii) two months prior to the date on which the
Community Centre was reserved, ten percent
of the fees paid,
(iii) one month prior to the date on which the
Community Centre was reserved, fifteen
percent of the fees paid,
(iv) fifteen days prior to the date on which the
Community Centre was reserved, twenty five
percent of the fees paid,

<!-- page 66 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1604
(v) Seven days prior to the date on which the
Community Centre was reserved, fifty percent
of the fees paid,
(vi) Three days prior to the date on which the
Community Centre was reserved, seventy five
percent of the fees paid.
shall be subjected to withholding in the funds of the
Urban Council;
(b) When the application for cancellation of the reservation
is forwarded in a period of time less than three days to
the date on which the Community Centre was reserved
the fees paid shall not be refunded;
(c) When any reservation has been cancelled the applicant
shall have the right to get the money deposited for
such reservation refunded fully;
(d) A Community Centre reserved by any person shall
not be used for any other purpose than that for which
it was reserved;
(e) A permit issued in respect of reserving a Community
Centre shall not be transferred on any ground to any
other person.
6. When an application forwarded for the reservation of a
Community Centre by any person is rejected it is the duty
of the Chairman to inform the applicant in writing on the
day of such application, itself about the reasons for such
rejection.
7. In the event of the necessity to get the date of reservation of
any Community Centre changed the applicant shall forward
a written request in this regard to the Chairman. The
amendment of the date of reservation made according to
such request shall be subject to provisions in By-law Nos. 3
and 4.
8. Only any money left behind after deducting, —
(a) the cost of any damage caused to the Community
Centre or any section of it, in the event of such damages
being caused,  and
(b) the fees that shall be paid on behalf of the extra period
of time the Community Centre was utilized,
shall be paid back to the applicant, out of the deposit
money deposited at the Urban Council, after the use
of any Community Centre reserved for any purpose.
9. While nobody shall damage or let anybody else damage a
community centre owned by the Urban Council, action shall
not be taken to engage in smoking, consume liquor, engage in
gambling or take part in any misconduct.
10. In the event of any Community Centre reserved under the
provisions of the By-laws in this part being required for any
essential matter of the Urban Council, on the day of such
reservation itself, the Chairman shall have the power to cancel
such reservation. However, if such cancellation is effected
the applicant shall be informed in writing about the
cancellation three days prior to the date of such reservation
of the Community Centres and the fees paid by him and the
deposit money shall be refunded fully. Furthermore, such
cancellation shall not be effected less than three days prior
to the date of reservation.
11. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“community centre” means any property or premises
allocated for the common use of the people living
in the Urban Council  Area and maintained by the
Urban Council. Moreover it shall include the wall
or fence erected around the Community Centre or
any building constructed within the centre or any
Section of such construction or any fittings or
instruments;
“civil organization” means any volunteer organization
established with the participation of the people
living within the Urban Council area and it shall
also include any other V olunteer Organization
established outside the area of authority of the
Urban Council for the benefit or development of
the people of the area;
“public event” means any meeting, discussions medical
clinic, presentation of aid, any other similar act or
religious and social event and it shall not include
any commercial event.
First Schedule
By-law, No. 2
Application for permission to use the Community Centre in … … … …
Urban Council.
01. Name of the Applicant: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
Address: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card Number: - … … … … … … … … …

<!-- page 67 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1605
PART XXVIII
BY - LAWS RELATING TO ADVERTISEMENTS
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating
to regularizing, control and supervision of advertisements
displaying within the area of authority of the Urban
Council.
2. The Urban Council  shall determine from time to time as
to which areas in the area of authority of the Council are
allowed to display advertisements. While it is the duty
of the Chairman to take action to publish in the Gazette
a notification about the decision taken by the Council
from time to time in respect of areas where display of
advertisements would be allowed it shall be effective
from the date the notification was published in the Gazette
or any future date specified in the Gazette notification.
 3. ( a) The Urban Council shall have the power to erect and
maintain hoardings where advertisements could be
displayed in any plot of land owned by the Urban
Council in any area determined upon by the Council
Name of the Community Centre Fees
Rs. Cts.
Deposit
Rs. Cts.
Fees for an
extra hour
Rs. Cts.
1.
2.
3.
4.
.
02. Reason for Application: - … … … …  … …
03. Date and Time when the Community Centre is required: -
From … … … … … … to … … … … … … Time … … … … …
I hereby certify that the above information is true and accurate. In the event of the allocation of the relevant community
centre as a result of this request I agree that the Urban Council shall deduct the cost of any damages caused to the buildings, constructions,
instruments and fittings of the community centre if and when such damage is caused. Meanwhile, in the event of the said deposit  being
not sufficient to affect such recoveries, I agree to pay any further amount of money require in this respect. Moreover, I agree  to obey the
provisions in By-laws relating to the regularizing, control and supervision of the community centers.
… … … … … … … …
Signature of the Applicant
Date: - … … … …
Second Schedule
Paragraph (b) By law, No. 3
Table of fees charged for the use of a community centre
from time to time under By-law,  No. 2 or in a land
owned by any other person and obtained by the
Council on an agreement arrived at by the Council.
(b) The Urban Council shall have the power to charge
from the exhibitors a fee determined upon by the
Council  from  time  to  time  for  displaying  an
advertisement in any hoarding erected by the Council
under paragraph (a).
 4. ( a) Unless any person has a valid licence issued on being
substantially prepared according to the specimen
found in the First Schedule for the particular purpose
by the Chairman, nobody shall display or cause to be
displayed an advertisement in any form so as to be
seen when looked at from any public place in the area
of authority of the Council.
(b) Even after obtaining a valid licence for display of
advertisements nobody shall display or let anybody
else to display, at any place other than at a place or
places specifically stated in the relevant licence, to be
seen when worked at from any public place.

<!-- page 68 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1606
5. Unless it has not been cancelled already every licence
issued under the By-laws in this part shall be valid only
for the period specifically mentioned in the licence.
6. Anybody who expects to obtain a licence to display any
advertisement shall forward an application substantially
prepared in accordance with the specimen given in the
second Schedule to the Chairman at least two days before
the date on which the said advertisement is expected to be
displayed.
7. Unless the applicant has fulfilled the provisions in this
By-law the Chairman shall not issue a licence for the
display of any form of advertisement.
(a) The request shall be for the display in a place within
the zone determined upon by the Council from time
to time in accordance with the manner set out in
By-law, No. 2.
(b) The period of validity of the licence already issued to
any other person in respect of the place for which the
licence is currently requested shall have been
terminated. However, this provision shall not be an
obstacle to issue a licence to display an advertisement
board nearby so as not to obstruct the viewing of the
advertisement being displayed under a licence
previously issued and still in force.
(c) The advertisement for which a display licence is sought
shall not contain any scenes or words which are
obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any
culture or harming any religion or community or race
or which can cause such a situation.
(d) When a licence has been requested to display an
advertisement in a hoarding erected by the Urban
Council, under By-law, No. 3, there shall be sufficient
space in the hoarding in order to display the relevant
advertisement. Moreover, the period of time allocated
for the advertisements already being displayed under
a licence issued earlier shall have been terminated.
(e) The advertisement shall not be an advertisement or
display prohibited or limited by a written law of the
country.
(f) Every application forwarded to obtain a licence shall
contain a specimen of the advertisement prepared on
the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 millimetres by 297
millimetres and a ground plan or plans of the place or
places where the advertisement is expected to be
displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper
210 mm x 297 mm. Moreover, the exact length and the
width of the advertisement shall have been indicated
therein.
(g) When the place where the advertisement is to be
displayed, -
(i) happens to be a hoarding erected by the Urban
Council under By-law No. 3, the fees
determined upon under paragraph (b) of the
By-law for the display of that advertisement
on the hoarding shall have been paid to the
Urban Council.
(ii) happens to be a place owned by any person
other than the applicant, or by any other
Authority written evidence ensuring that
permission has been granted to display the
advertisement at the particular place shall have
been forwarded.
8. Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that
may cause any obstacle or accident to a person walking
hear the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being
driven nearby. Moreover, fixing of electricity light rays
or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a
driver driving a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view
shall not be done.
9. When conditions necessary for the issue of a licence under
the By-laws in this part in respect of any application
submitted have been fulfilled the Chairman or the
Authorized Officer shall inform the applicant about it. It
shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer
to issue the licence to the applicant making payment of
the fees for the licence in the manner set out in By-law
No. 10 and fees for the surety set out in By-law, No. 11,
after receipt of the above notice.
  10. ( a) while the licence fee to be paid to the Urban Council
on every licence issued under the By-laws in this part
shall not exceed the annual value mentioned in Column
1 of Sub-section(2) of Article,164 of the Urban Council
Ordinance (Chapter 255) the maximum fees stated
parallel in Column II, the Urban Council shall levy
that fee annually.
(b) Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-
laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of
the year for which it had been issued unless it is
cancelled earlier under the provisions of the By-laws
in this part.
(c) when it is required to display an advertisement during
the succeeding year after the expiry of the period of
validity of the licence currently issued for the display
of any advertisement a new licence shall have been
obtained on displaying the notice for such succeeding
year. However, notwithstanding the amount of fees
determined by the Urban Council as charges intended
to be made during the succeeding year in respect of
licences to be issued for the display of advertisements
the licence fees determined earlier shall be relevant for
the new licence to be issued for the display of the said
advertisement.

<!-- page 69 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1607
(d) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to publish in the
Gazette a notification on the annual licence fees to be
levied by the Urban Council under the provisions of
the paragraph (a).
(e) Notwithstanding anything stated in this By-law an
advertisement in respect of any religious activity or
any cultural activity held without charging any money
shall be free of charges. However, the other provisions
of the By-laws in this part shall apply in respect of
any such advertisement in the manner set out.
   11. ( a) when a decision has been made to issue a licence in
respect of any application forwarded for the purpose
of displaying an advertisement the Chairman shall not
issue the licence for the said application until the
applicant has deposited security money in the Urban
Council at the rates to be determined by it from time
to time.
(b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to publish in the
Gazette about the decision taken by the Council in
respect of the rate of the deposit money to be deposited
in the Urban Council prior to issuing a licence to display
any advertisement.
12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate in the lower
edge of the right hand side of each advertisement or
advertisements the registered number of the licence issued
in respect of all notifications to be displayed before such
display is done.
   13. ( a) When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting
of any form used for the fixing of any advertisement is
in a state that might harm the environment or be a
danger or risk to anybody or any property of any
person, the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall
have the power to direct the licensee through an order
to bring it back to proper conditions within a specified
period of time.
(b)  It shall be lawful for cancel the issued licence for such
advertisement and remove the advertisement by the
Chairman or Authorized Officer, when anybody in
receipt of a notification under paragraph (a) has avoided
acting in the manner provided for by the provisions of
the notification.
(c) when any licence has been cancelled under the
provisions in paragraph (b) the security deposit
deposited at the Urban Council in respect of displaying
that advertisement shall accrue to the funds of the
Urban Council and nobody else shall have the right to
claim the deposit money.
14. The Urban Council shall not be subjected to any form of
responsibility in respect of any damage, defacement or
evacuation caused to any advertisement being displayed
under a valid licence obtained for such display.
15. When any provision in the By-laws in this part has been
violated the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall
have the power to cancel any licence issued having invited
the attention in respect of such violations.
16. It shall not be assumed as well as understood that the
mere fact of issuing a licence under the By-laws in this
part for the display of any advertisement tantamount to
giving legal sanctions for the presentation of the meaning
or the connotation embodied in the said advertisement.
17. The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard
to any damage or harm caused or likely to be caused to
any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing used
in this connection utilized for the construction of any
advertisement or due to the menacing or connotation
implied in the said advertisement.
18. It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove
the advertisement and all the other goods used in this
regard out of the place or places where such advertisements
were put in place, before the expiry of forty eight hours
after the last day of the display of the advertisement
mentioned in the application forwarded to obtain a licence
under the By-laws in this part.
   19. ( a) After taking action in the manner set out in By-law,
No. 18, the licensee shall be able to withdraw the
deposit money deposited at the Urban Council before
the issuing of the relevant licence on a written request
made to the Chairman.
(b) On receipt of a written request in the manner set out
in paragraph —
(a) it shall be the duty of the Chairman to ensure,
(i) the licensee has properly accomplished the
provisions stated in By-law, No. 16; and
(ii) that in the event of the hoarding being
constructed by the Urban Council no damage is
caused to the hoarding while removing the said
advertisement or due to any other cause, the
licensee is held responsible, before releasing the
said deposit money to the said licensee.
(
c) Unless the Chairman is satisfied when ensuring in the
manner set out in paragraph (b) that the licensee has

<!-- page 70 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1608
acted in the manner stated in the By-law, No. 18 and
that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Urban
Council, the said deposit money shall not be released
fully to the licensee. When any licensee has avoided
acting in the manner stated in By-law No. 17 or when
any damage has been caused to the hoarding of the
Urban Council, suitable action shall be taken to deduct
from the deposit money expenditure that the Urban
Council would have to bear to effect the particular
task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both,
and only the balance remaining shall be refunded to
the licensee.
(d) When the money liveable by the Urban Council in
taking action in the manner stated in paragraph (c) is
more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee
shall pay the extra money payable to the Urban
Council.
20. The provisions in the By-laws in this part shall not be
relevant for the display in front of any business premise
or any factory within the area of authority of the Urban
Council, to a single notice depicting the name, address
and the nature of the enterprise being maintained at the
said place of business or the nature of the products being
produced at the factory, for a domestic name board and
for a single advertisement  carrying the phrase “on lease”
or “for sale” or “available for rent” displayed on any
property intended to be given in lease or for sale or to be
given on rent. However, at any time when more than one
such advertisement is displayed the provisions of this
By-law shall apply in respect of all such additional
advertisements.
21. The provisions of the By-laws in this part shall not
apply in respect of advertisements displayed by the
Government, Provincial Council or the Urban Council.
22. When an advertisement of any commodity or a service
has been displayed together with the name, number and/
or address of any business enterprise and when an
advertisement of any form of commodity or service has
been displayed in any household, such advertisement or
advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of
the By-laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody
in-charge of the administration of the premises for the
time being shall be considered as the person who should
obtain the licence in respect of provisions of this By-
law.
23. Nobody shall fix, paste, hang, keep tied or project any
form of advertisement in a tree, a trunk of a tree, a branch
or in any part found in a public place or close to such a
place or attached to a public building.
24. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“advertisement” means an advertising notice or banner or
cut-out or any form of model or notice or
announcement or business notification containing
any letters or words or illustrations used in
advertising and displayed fully or partly over or
on a land or building or a created structure and
being displayed for the information or attention of
the public and put in place by pasting, fixing,
erecting, hanging or any other means;
“cut-out” means, an advertisement pasted or fixed in any
frame prepared using wood or any other materials;
“hoarding” means any permanent board built in order to
fix or hold any advertisement displayed for the
information or attention of the public.
First Schedule
By-law, No. 4
L
ICENCE FOR THE DISPLAY OF ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE AREA OF
AUTHORITY OF …
… … … … … U RBAN COUNCIL
Licence fees paid: - Rs… … … … … Serial No. of the licence …
Amount of surety: - Rs… … … … … …
Mr./Mrs. /Ms. … … … … … … … … … … holder of National
Identity Card Number … … … … … … … … … and resident in …
… … … … … … is hereby authorized to display an advertisement/
advertisements at the following place/places within the area of
authority of the … … … … … … Urban Council during the period
… … … 20… to … … … … 20… subject to provisions in By-laws
relating to regularising, Supervision and control of advertisements.
Place/Places where authority has been granted to display
advertisement/Advertisements.
1.
2.
3.
4.
… … … … … … … … … …
Chairman/Authorized Officer
… … … … … … … … … … Urban Council
Date:  … … …

<!-- page 71 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1609
Second Schedule
By-law No. 6
Application for display of Advertisements
01. Name of the Applicant: … … … … … … … … … …
02. Address:  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
03. National Identity Card No.:  … … … … … … … … …
04. Telephone No.:  … … … … … … … … …
05. Particulars of the advertisement: … … … … … … … …
(i) Size of the advertisement:
Length: … … … cm, Width: … … … cm.
(ii) Number of advertisements:-
(iii. Contents of the advertisement:-
(iv) Manner in which it is put in place:-
(v) Locations in which it is put in place:-
(Please attach a specimen mentioned in paragraph
 (f) of By-law No. 7)
06. Period of validation of the licence applied for -
Date of commencement:  … … … … 20…
Date of expiry :  … … … … 20…
I hereby promise to obey all provisions in the By-laws
relating to regularizing, supervision and control of advertisements
and to take action to remove the advertisement/advertisements
relevant to the application and all materials used in this regard out
of the place/places at my expense, before the expiry of two days
after the termination of the period of validity of the licence.
… … … … … … … … …
Signature of Applicant.
Date: … … … … … …
PART XXIX
B
Y-LAWS RELA TING TO REGISTERING MORTGAGES AND MORTGAGEES
1. The By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating
to registering the mortgages of immovable property, within
the area of authority of the Urban Council and addresses
of the mortgagees.
2. Any mortgagee who mortgage an immovable property
situated within the Urban Council area shall forward an
application to the Secretary Substantially prepared in
accordance with the specimen contained in the First
Schedule before the expiry of seven days from the date
the mortgage comes into force and get it registered in the
Urban Council
3. Every mortgagee who has already mortgaged any
immovable property situated within the area of authority
of the Urban Council on the date the By-laws in this part
come into force shall get the property registered in the
manner set out in By-law No. 2 before the expiry of two
months from the date the By-laws in Section come into
force.
 4. ( a) Every mortgagee who forwards an application form
in order to get a mortgage registered at the Urban
Council under the provisions of the By-laws in this
part shall pay a fee determined by the Urban Council.
(b) While the Urban Council shall determine the fees to
be paid to the Council by the mortgagee to get any
mortgage registered at the Council under paragraph
(a), and the Urban Council may amend or change the
fees from time to time.
(c) The rate of fees determined by or changed by or
amended by the Urban Council from time to time
under the paragraph (b) shall come into effect from
the date a notice on such rates are published in the
Gazette or from any future date specified in the said
notification.
 5. ( a) If any property mortgaged by the mortgagee registered
at the Urban Council  in the manner set out in By-law
No. 2 and  By-law No. 3,
(i) is released to the mortgager by the said
mortgagee;
(ii) is transferred to the mortgagee outright;
(iii) is vested with the mortgagee and with any other
person or a number of persons on the basis of
joint ownership,
(iv) is disclaimed by the mortgagee in any other
manner,
it shall be the duty of the mortgagee to inform
the Secretary in writing about such incident
before the expiry of one month.
(b) It shall be the duty of any mortgagee registered at the
Urban Council to inform the Secretary in writing about
any change in his address within seven days of such
incident. Moreover it shall be the duty of the Secretary
to take action to amend the Register of Mortgagees as
soon as he is in receipt of such written notification,
and to inform the mortgagee in writing about such
amendments.
6. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare
substantially in accordance with the specimen in the
second schedule this part a Register of the mortgagees
relevant to every application forwarded under the
provisions of the By-law No. 2 or By-law    No. 3 and of
the property held in mortgages by them, and to maintain
such Register.

<!-- page 72 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1610
 7. ( a) It shall be duty of the Secretary to allow inspection
during office hours on any working day of the week
of the Register on Mortgagees and property held in
mortgages maintained by the Urban Council to
anybody needing inspection of the said  Register.
(b) Anybody wishing to inspect the register on
Mortgagees in accordance with paragraph (a) shall
obtain permission from the Secretary on payment of
a fee prescribed by the Urban Council. However,
charges shall not be made in respect of inspections
made by a Head of any Government Department or
Department of the Provincial Council or by any
officer authorized in writing for official purposes.
(c) while the charges for the inspection of the Register
of Mortgagees shall be determined by the Urban
Council any changes or amendments in this regard
shall be done by the Council from time to time.
(d) A notification on the rates determined by or changed
by or amended by the Council from time to time
under paragraph (c) shall come into effect from the
date of notification in the Gazette or any future date
specified in the said notification.
8. ( a) when any owner of a property registered under the
provisions of By-law No. 2 has defaulted payment
of any rates, tax or fees imposed by the Urban Council
on the property situated within the area of authority
of the Council, it is the duty of the Secretary to
inform the mortgagee of such property in writing,
through registered post, before fourteen days about
the decision,
(i) to issue a warrant on attachment of such
property;
(ii) to implement the warrant issued on attachment
of such property;
(iii) to sell the relevant property attached on a
warrant issued in that respect.
(b) when a mortgagee is in receipt of a notice issued
under paragraph ( a) about the decision, -
(i) issue a warrant on attachment of any property,
or
(ii) to implement a warrant issued on attachment
of such property, or
(iii) to sell such property attached on a warrant
issued,
in respect of any property included in the
Register of Mortgages registered at the Urban
Council, as a result of the default of payment
of any assessment fees, tax or rates imposed
by the Urban Council on the property located
within the area of authority of the Council, it
shall be lawful for the said mortgagee to take
action to prevent the issue of a warrant on
attachment of such property or on implementing
the warrant issued on attachment of such
property or on selling such property attached
on a warrant issued, after paying the said
assessment fee or tax or rates on the said property
defaulted by the owner of the said property.
9. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“mortgagee” means a person providing any money or any
other goods or services on the basis of a loan or any
other form having kept as surety any immovable
property located within the area of authority of the
Urban Council and it also shall include any
Commercial Bank issuing loans having kept
immovable property as surety.
First Schedule
B
Y-LAW NO. 2
Application for Registration of Mortgages of immovable
property within
the … … … … … … Urban Council and the Addresses of the
Mortgagees
(A separate application each shall be forwarded in respect of each
property)
1. Immovable property mortgaged: -
(a) Name/Names of Mortgagor: - 1.
2.
3.
(b) Addresses of Mortgagees: - 1.
2.
3.
(c) Name of the street or village where the property
is situated: -
(d) Assessment No.: -
(e) Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division
where the property is situated: -
(f) Extent of the land: -
 … … Acres … … roods … … Perches
(Hectares: … … … … …)
(g) Number of the deed: - … … … … … … … …
(h) Name and Address of the Notary Public:- … … … …
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(Attach a copy of the mortgage title deed certified by
 the Notary Public who prepared it).
… … … … … … … … … …
Applicant’s / Mortgagee’s Signature.
Date: - … … … 20…

<!-- page 73 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1611
Second Schedule
BY-LAW NO. 6
… … … … … … … … … Urban Council
Register of Mortgages on Immovable Property and Addresses of Mortgagees
Registration Mortgager Mortgagee
Year No. Name Address Name/s Address
Street village where
property situated
Assessment No.
Name & No. of the GN
Division
Extent of the Land
(Hectares)
Title Deed No.
Name & Address of the
Notary Public
Date of commencement
of the mortgage
Date of Expiry of the Mortgage
Mortgage Deed No.
Name & Address of the
Notary Public
Signature of the
Subject Officer
Signature of the
Secretary

<!-- page 74 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1612
(i) has been vested in any other person or persons
or mortgaged to any other person ; or
(ii) has been vested in any other person or persons
through power of attorney.
(b) In the event of making any changes of the purposes
for which any building owned by any person registered
at the Urban Council in the manner set out in By-laws
in this part is being used, it shall be the duty of the
owner of such immovable property to inform the
Secretary in writing before the expiry of one month of
such incident.
(c) Any holder of any immovable property rgistered at
the Urban Council in the manner set out in the By-
laws in this part, shall obtain permission from the
Urban Council ;
(i) before any such immovable property is
subjected to sub-division ;
(ii) before any new building is constructed on any
land being an immovable property ;
(iii) before making any changes of the profile of the
builidng, in the form of ;
(1) adding any new part of the building, or
(2) demolition of any existing part, or
(3) adding any new part after demolishing any
existing part, or
(4) demolishing the entire building and
constructing a new one.
(d) It shall be the duty of any owner of immovable
property registeed at the Urban Council to inform the
Secretary in writing about any change in his address
within seven days of such incident. Moreover it shall
be the duty of the Secretary to take action to amend
the Register of immovable property owners as soon
as he is in receipt of such written notification, and to
inform the owner of immovable property in writing
about such amendments.
5. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare
substantially in accordance with the specimen in the
second Schedule this part a Register of the immovable
property owners relevant to every application forwarded
under the provisions of the By-law No. 2 or By-law No.
PART XXX
B
Y-LAWS RELATING TO PERIODICAL RETURNS AND INFORMATION
1. The by-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws relating
to forwarding information on immovable property located
within the area of authority of the Urban Council and
returns on Industries or Enterprises for the purpose of
imposing assessment fees and taxes and levying licence
fees.
 2. ( a) Every person who acquires any immovable property
located in the area of authority of the Urban Council
shall, within a period of three months from the date
of such acquisition forward an application
substantially prepared according to the specimen in
the First Schedule of the By-laws in this part in order
to get the information about such immovable property
registered at the Urban Council.
(b) Any person forwarding an application in the manner
set out in paragraph (a) shall attach photocopies of
the following documents duly certified by a notary
pubilc with the application :–
(i) Title deed of the relevant property ;
(ii) Plan of the relevant property drawn by a
licensed surveyor ;
(iii) Building plan of any building or condominium
building drawn by an architect if and when any
building or condominium has been built on the
said immovable property ;
(iv) Building plan of any building or condominium
building drawn by an architect if and when such
immovable property is a building condominium
building.
3. Every person who has acquired any immovable property
situated within the area of authority of the Urban Council
on the date the by-laws in this part come into force shall
get the property registered in the manner set out in By-
law No. 2 before the expiry of six months from the date
the By-laws in Section come into force.
4. ( a) Any holder of a immovable property registered at the
Urban Council in the manner set out in the By-laws
in this part shall take action to inform the Secrtary in
writing before the expiry of one month, of such
incident, if and when the ownership of any immovable
property owned by him,–

<!-- page 75 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1613
3 and of the property held by them, and to maintain such
Register.
 6. ( a) It shall be lawful for the Secretary to request through
a written notice from the owner or manager of any
industry or enterprise to confirm by a certified return,
(i) the amount of receipts realized during a period
of any year, or
(ii) the business turnover during a period of any
year, or
(iii) the profits that could be accrued during a period
of any year, or
(iv) the amount of money received from any sale,
while carrying out the transactions of the said
enterprise or the industry, required for the
computation of the tax or license fees to be
paid to the Urban Council when levying any
tax by the Council under the Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255) or any licence issued
by the Council on any enterprise or industry or
sale carried out in the area of authority of the
Urban Council.
(b) Anybody in receipt of a notice under paragraph ( a)
sent by the Secretary shall take action to provide the
information sought by the notice to the Secretary
within fourteen days of the receipt of such notice.
7. In the By-laws of this part, unless any other meaning is
sought –
“immovable property” means any land or building or any
condominium building ;
“property owner” means any person who is the sole
owner of any immovable property or in the event
of there being more than one owner for any
particular property, such owners individually and
collectively and it shall also include any other
person resident in the property or holding
guardianship of the property for the time being.
First Schedule
P
ARAGRAPH (A) OF BY-LAW NO. 2
Presenting information on the immovable property located
in the area of authority of the … … … … … … Urban
Council
1. ( a) Name/Names of the owner/owners of property :
1. ………………………………………………………
2. ……………………………………………………
3. ………………………………………………………
(b) Address/Addresses of the property owner/owners :
1. ………………………………………………………
2. ………………………………………………………
3. ………………………………………………………
(c) Name of the street or village where the property is
located : ……………
(d) Assessment No. ……………
(e) Number and name of the Grama Niladhari Division
where the property is located : ……………
(f) Extent of the Land : …………… Acres ……………
Roods ……………Perches
( ……………Hectares)
(g) Number of the Deed : …………………………
(h) Name and address of the Notary Public………
………………………………………
2. ( a) If the property is a land, whether any building has
been constructed on the property ? - Yes/No
(b) If the answer is “yes”, whether the building is a single
building or a condominium building ?
3. Date of acquisition of the property :…………
………………………………………
4. Purpose for which the property is used : Residential/Trading
or Commercial activities.
… … … … … … … … … …,
Signature of the Property Owner.
Date: … … … 20…

<!-- page 76 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
1614
SECOND SCHEDULE
BY-LAW NO. 5
… … … … … … … … … Urban Council
Register of Immovable Property
Registration Owner of Property
Year No. Name Address
Street village where
  property situated
Assessment No.
Name and No. of the GN
   Division
Extent of the Land
   (Hectares)
Deed No.
Name and  Address of the
   Notary Public
Whether a land or a building
Date of acquisition
Purpose for which it is used
Signature of the
   Subject Officer
Signature of the
  Secretary
11-298
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.