

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2310$26 - 2022 foieïn¾ ui 14 jeks nodod - 2022'12'14
No. 2310/26 -  WEDNESDAY ,   DECEMBER  14,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
1A- G 38347- 08 (12/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SPORTS LAW, No. 25 OF 1973
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Sports and Youth affairs under the Section 41 and read with the Section 31 of the 
Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973.
   
 R
OSHAN RANASINGHE (M.P.),
 Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs.
 
At Colombo,
14th day of  December, 2022.                                                       
Regulations
Regulation No. 01 of 2016 of the National Association of Sport published by the Extra ordinary Gazette No. 1990/23 dated 
27.10.2016 and amended from time to time are further amended as follows for the betterment, improvement and development 
of the sport, athletes and those who are engaged in sports.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.12.2022
2A
 (1) Regulation 5(1) of the Part II of the Regulations of National Association of Sports is amended as follows:
  The words “A committee consisted with the number of of ﬁ cers speciﬁ ed by their constitution shall be appointed” is 
substituted for the words “An Executive Committee consisted with the number of ofﬁ cers speciﬁ ed by their constitution 
and of which the maximum of the tenure is two (02) years shall be appointed”
 (2) The said regulation is further amended by removing its regulation 5(2) and inserting the following regulation instead;
 (2) (i) Every of ﬁ cer of the committee shall be appointed at the General Meeting that conduct the election;
  (ii) If a certain of ﬁ cer;
 (a) has held the of ﬁ ce of President for two terms (04 years), such a person shall not be eligible to be                
re-elected as President and shall not however be ineligible for committee membership for further 04-
year period.
 (b) has held four (04) terms of of ﬁ ce (a term of ofﬁ ce of eight (08) years), such person shall be disqualiﬁ ed 
to be re-elected and also he shall be disqualiﬁ ed to have the committee membership.
  However, in respect of the of ﬁ cers including the President; who have been appointed by the election 
as at the effective date of these regulations, the aforesaid regulation shall not be an obstacle to hold 
the said positions until the end of the term to which they have been appointed. 
  (iii) Maximum period that a certain committee member can hold the membership of the committee shall be 04
   terms (08 years).;
 However, if a certain of ﬁ cer or committee member is removed or punished or subjected to a prohibition 
by a formal inquiry; conducted by Sports Act and any recognized committee appointed under it; or by the 
relevant International Association or an International Association af ﬁ liated under it; or on disciplinary 
reasons by Disciplinary Committee of the National Association, such a person shall not be eligible for being 
re-elected for such ofﬁ ce or the committee membership.
 (iv) At an event wherein any Executive Committee Member including President, Secretary and Treasurer of a 
Certain National Association proceed in contrast to the Sports Act, Regulation, Orders and the Constitution 
of National Association/Federation, such an of ﬁ cer can be removed from the of ﬁ ce by calling a Special 
General Meeting in respect of a proposal; presented by a member entitled to exercise votes having a simple 
majority of the members entitled to exercise votes, to be adopted with a 2/3 majority of National Association/
Federation entitled to exercise votes, or in a General Meeting even before the completion of the relevant 
term.
 (v) Maximum age limit of any of ﬁ cer or a committee member to hold term of such ofﬁ ce is limited up to Seventy 
(70) years.
 (3) The paragraphs (iii) (a), (iii) (b), (iii) (c) and (iv) of 5 (i) regulation are removed and the following paragraphs are 
inserted instead:
 “(iii) (a) For a Grade A and B National Association, a member of the Association of Accounting Technicians of Sri 
Lanka or a treasurer having the certi ﬁ cate issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 
or higher certiﬁ cate or a certiﬁ cate on banking and ﬁ nance issued by Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, and 
an Assistant Treasurer having at least three-year experience in the ﬁ eld of ﬁ nance management.
 (b) For a National Association of Sports in Grade C, a Treasurer having experience at least for three years as 
an Account Manager and an Account Clerk in a licensed Commercial Bank accredited under the provisions 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.12.2022
3A
of the Banking  Act, No. 30 of 1988 or a licensed special bank or a Finance Company licensed under the 
provisions of the Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011 or a Finance Leasing Institute registered under the 
provisions of the Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 or a company incorporated under the provisions of 
the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007, and an Assistant Treasurer having at least three-year experience in the 
ﬁ eld of ﬁ nance management” 
 (4) The said regulation is further amended by repealing the Paragraph No. 5 (4) (i) of the said regulations and substituting 
the following Section instead.
  “5 (4) (i)” if he is not, or cease to be a citizen of Sri Lanka and is a dual citizen”
 (5) The said regulation is further amended by inserting the paragraph 5 (4) (o) immediately after the paragraph 5 (4) (n) 
of the said regulations.
 (o)  if a public of ﬁ cer serving in the Ministry in charge of the subject of sports or engaged in a duty related to the 
subject of sports,
 (6) The said regulation is further amended by inserting the following paragraph immediately after the paragraph 5 (4) (x) 
of the said regulations.
  “5 (4) (y) if he fails to submit the Declarations of Assets and Liabilities to the Election Committee within three (03) 
years immediately preceding to the submission  of nomination;
  5 (4) (z) if he is a person found guilty of the said charges; related to an act which causes a prohibition related to the 
misuse of ﬁ nancial or other aids or a corruption or misconduct or the violating disciplines of sports or constitution of 
the association, by an inquiry board, an investigation committee, an appeal advisory board appointed by the Minister in 
charge of the subject of Sports, by the Special Investigation Unit of the Police for the Prevention of Offences Relating 
to Sports or by a recommendation of the COPE of the Parliament, or if a person recommended to be disquali ﬁ ed to 
hold a position of a National Association/Federation of Sports/a Committee.
 (7) The said regulation is further amended by inserting the following paragraph immediately after the paragraph 5 (5) of 
the said regulations.
  5 (5) (i) a person who did an exclusive service to the society, sport and pays special income tax to the Government is 
qualiﬁ ed to hold an ofﬁ ce in a National Association/Federation of Sports under the written approval of the Minister.
 (8) The said regulation is further amended by removing its regulation 5 (6) and inserting the following paragraph instead.
  5 (6) 
  a person; holding a position of President, Secretary, Treasurer, Vice/Deputy President, Vice/Deputy Secretary, Vice/
Deputy Treasurer in a National Association of sports, a Provincial Association of Sports, a District Association of Sports 
or afﬁ liated Sport Club is disquali ﬁ ed to hold any other positions in his National Association of Sports, a Provincial 
Association of Sports, a District Association of Sports, Divisional Sports Club or af ﬁ liated Sport Club or any other 
National Association of Sports.
 (9) Further, the following paragraph is added immediately after the paragraph (xxvi) under the regulation No. 07 in Part 
III of the regulation of National Association of Sports, and the said regulation is further amended thereby.
  7 (xxvii)
  The details about all activities including elections of the sports clubs, institutes, District Associations of sports, 
Provincial Associations of sports or the sports clubs and member organizations af ﬁ liated to a District or Provincial 
Association; afﬁ liated to a National Association/Federation of Sports, shall be presented annually by the respective 
National Association/Federation of Sports to the Director General of Sports.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.12.2022
4A
( 10) Following amendments are made immediately after Part III of the regulations of National Association of Sports, and 
the said regulation is further amended thereby.
  The said regulation is further amended by inserting a new part ‘as Part III (a), naming it as ‘Supervision of Sport 
Associations”, newly inserting the following regulation as the regulation 7(a) in Part III (a) of the regulations of National 
Association of Sports.
7(a) -   The Director General of Sports shall formulate a program to have a full supervise on all the above-mentioned 
associations of sports, clubs and afﬁ liated institutes.
  Further,
  The Director General of Sports shall get the District Associations of Sports supervised by the sport Director of each 
District.
  Further,
  The Director General of  Sports shall get the Provincial Associations of sports supervised by each Provincial Director 
of sports, and the said supervision activities shall be carried out by each Provincial Council in line with the National 
Sports Policy in compatible with the provisions introduced through the Charters by each Provincial Council.
EOG 12-0204
      
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.