

<!-- page 1 -->

117 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
wxl 1"774 - 2012 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'08'30
No. 1,774 – THURSDAY , AUGUST 30, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Bills ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
Notifications of Criminal Sessions of the Supreme Court —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... ––
List of Notaries ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... 118
117
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  21st  September, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
September, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
(Acting)  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
N. B.– Parts III and IV A of the Gazette No. 1,773  of 24.08.2012 were not published.
The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in January– March, 2009 has been published in Part V of this gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

118  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
Miscellaneous Notices
NOTICE  OF  WINDING  UP
In the High Court of the Western Province (Holden in
Colombo) in the Exercise of its Civil  Jurisdiction
In the matter of Maritime Logistics Colombo
(Private) Limited [N (PVS) 28975) having its
registered office at No. 351, 1st Level, R. A. De
Mel Mawatha, Colombo 03.
And
In the matter of an application for winding up
by Court under and in terms of Part XII of the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.
Kshanaka Niranga Wickremasinghe,
No. 129, Nagahawatte Road,
Dalugama,
Keleniya.
........................................................ Petitioner.
Notice is hereby given that a petition for the winding up of the
above-named Company by (a) High Court of the Western Province
(Holden in Colombo) in the exercise of its Civil Jurisdiction, or as
the case may be was, on the 14th day of June 2012, presented to
the said Court by (b) Kshanaka Niranga Wickremasinghe. And that
the said petition is directed to be heard before the Court on the 04th
day of October 2012 ; and any creditor or contributory of the said
Company desirous to support or oppose the making of an order on
the said petition may appear at the time of hearing in person or by
his Attorney-at-Law for that purpose ; and a copy of the petition
will be furnished to any creditor or contributory of the said
Company requiring the same by the undersigned on payment of the
prescribed charge for the same.
FJ & G De Saram
216, De Saram Place,
Colombo 10
Note.-Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of the
said petition must serve on or send by post to the above-named FJ
& G De Saram notice in writing of his intention so to do. The notice
must state the name and address of the person, or if a firm the name
and address of the firm, and must be signed by the person or firm,
or his or their Attorney-at-Law (if any) and must be served, or if
posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above-
named not later than 6.00 in the afternoon of the 03rd of October
2012.
Attorney-at-Law for the Petitioner.
08-848
Case No. :
HC (Civil)
26/2012 (CO)
Nature :
Winding up
NOTICE  OF  WINDING  UP
In the  High  Court of the Western Province (Holden in
Colombo) in the  Exercise of its Civil Jurisdiction
In the matter of Capital Consolidated Lanka
(Private) Limited (Pv 11438) having its
registered office  at Kudagammana Walpita,
Divulapitiya.
And
In the  matter of an application for  winding up
by Court under and in terms of Part XII of the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.
MAC Supply Chain Solutions (Private)
Limited
141/9, Vauxhall Street,
Colombo 02.
........................................................Petitioner.
Notice is hereby given that a Petition for the  Winding Up of the
above named Company by (a) High Court of the  Western Province
(Holden in Colombo) in the  exercise of its  Civil Jurisdiction or as
the case may by was on the 07th day of August  2012, presented  to
the said Court by (b) MAC Supply Chain Solutions (Private)
Limited. And that the  said petition is directed to be head before  the
Court on the 15th day of October 2012 and any creditor or
contributory of the said Company desirous to support or oppose
the  making  of an order  on the said petition may  appear at the time
of hearing in person or by his Attorney – at – Law for that purpose;
and a copy  of the petition will be  furnihed to any creditor or
contributory of the said  Company requiring the  same by the
undersigned on payment of the  prescribed charge for the  same.
FJ & G  De Saram,
216, De Saram Place, Colombo 10
Note :- Any peson who intends to appear on the hearing of the
said petition must  serve on or send by post to the above named FJ
& G De Saram notice in writing of his intention so to do. The notice
must state the name and address of the person or, if a firm, the
name and address of the firm and must be signed by the person or
firm or his or their Attorney – at – Law (if any) and must be served
or if posted, must be sent by post  in sufficient time to reach the
above – named not later than 1.00 in the  afternoon of the  13th day
of Octobr 2012.
Attorney – at – Law  for the  Petitioner.
08-896
Case No :
HC (Civil) 36/
2012 (CO)
Nature :
Winding up

<!-- page 3 -->

119 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  JAM'IYYATHUS
SAHWA  AL-KHAIRIYYA  (JASKA)
I, M. B. Farook, do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 48
of the Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a
Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate the Jam'iyyathus Sahwa Al-
Khairiyya (JASKA)".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Association which
has the following general objects :-
1. to uplift living standard of the poor ;
2. to find the needs of elders, disabled, orphans, widows and
help them ; and
3. to protect the rights of children and women and help them ;
etc.
M. B. F
AROOK,
Member of Parliament.
08-919
AN  ACT TO  INCORPORATE  THE  JAMIAH
RAHMANIYA  ARABIC  COLLEGE,  AKURANA
I, Abdul Haleem do hereby give notice under standing Order No. 48
of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a
Bill entitled" An Act to incorporate the Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic
College, Akurana.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said College which has
the following General objects :-
1. to administer the Jamiah Rahmaniya College.
2. to educate the daily use languages of Sinhala, English, Tamil
and Urdu ;
etc.
A
BDUL HALEEM,
Member of Parliament,
Kandy District.
08-920
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.