

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 116]
————————
Presented by the Hon. Sanjeeva Edirimanna, M.P.
for Kalutara District on 05th of May, 2022
(Published in the Gazette on April 25, 2022)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
KIDNEY AND DIABETES LIONS HOSPITAL TRUST
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Kidney and Diabetes Lions Hospital Trust
BILL
A

<!-- page 2 -->

1Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE  KIDNEY AND DIABETES
LIONS HOSPITAL TRUST
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Kidney
and Diabetes Lions Hospital Trust” has heretofore been
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually  carrying
out  its objects and transacting all matters connected with the
said Trust according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Trust has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established, and has  applied to be incorporated
and it will be expendient to grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kidney and Diabetes
Lions Hospital Trust (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2022.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons now are members of the Kidney
and Diabetes Lions Hospital Trust (hereinafter referred to as
the “Trust”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Kidney and Diabetes Lions Hospital Trust” (hereinafter
referred to as the “body corporate”) and by that name may
sue and be sued, in all Courts with full  power and authority
to have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organization
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
Short title
10
Preamble
5
15
20
25
Incorporation
of the Kidney
and Diabetes
Lions
Hospital
Trust
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
2
3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate
is constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide facilities to the community for a healthy
life style;
(b) to establish a Hospital for kidney and Diabetic
patients;
(c) to identify, educate, treat kidney and diabetic patients
especially for families with low income and minimum
facilities;
(d) to conduct lectures, seminars, workshops and any other
such activities in order to invigilate the public of the
kidney and diabetic as well as any other non
communicable diseases;
(e) to establish companionship with the establishments,
organizations or any other organizational entities
within and outside Sri Lanka;
(f) to print, publish and distribute books, magazines and
leaflets that the corporation think suit to achieve and
promote the objectives of the corporation; and
(g) to establish and maintain an elders’ home
amalgamated to the kidney hospital;
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
10
5
15
20
25
General
objects of the
Body
corporate

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporate and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
5. (1) The body corporate shall maintain a register of the
member inscribed their names at the date of the incorporated
the trust and the names of the members thereafter properly
enrolled.
(2) The register shall contain the following details:–
(a) name, address and number of the National Identity
of each members of the body corporate;
(b) date of the enrolment of the membership in the
register; and
(c) date of the cancellation of the membership.
6. The followings will cause the cessation of
membership:–
(a) upon death of the member;
(b) resignation from the membership;
(c) become unsound mind;
(d) violating certain rules of the body corporate.
7. (1) The affairs of the administration and management
of the body corporate shall be executed by the provisions
and the rules made under section 9 of this Act,through an
executive committee (hereinafter referred as ‘board of
trustees’), comprising seventeen members including the
10
5
15
20
Register of
members of
the body
corporate
Body
corporate to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the Central
Government
or Province
Cancellation
of
membership
of body
corporate
Management
of the affairs
of the body
corporate
25

<!-- page 5 -->

Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
4
chairman, secretary and treasurer elected under the rules of
the body corporate among the members of Sinha District
306 A 2.
(2) The members of the board of Trustees of the Trust in
power on the day immediately before the incorporation of
this Act, shall be the first board of trustees of the body
corporate and shall remain in power until such time the annual
general meeting of the body corporate is held.
(3) The ideologist of the Lions Hospital Trust Mr. Anil
Nanayakkara, and Mr. K.G. Wijayasiri, the pioneer of the
Lions Hospital shall be the lifetime members of the Trust
while nine other members from the ex-officio be appointed
via the annual general meeting whom shall serve for a period
of three years.
(4) There shall be a Board of Management comprising
six members who shall be in charge for administration and
the operation of the Hospital and be made under the
supervision of the board of Trustees.
8. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary or
desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including the
power –
(a) to purchase, acquire rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the body corporate and
to deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;
(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind with or without security:
10
5
15
20
25
Powers of the
body
corporate
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
Provided that, the Board shall obtain to prior
written approval of the Department of external
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of  Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts of donations made to the Body corporate.
(c) to made, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close accounts in any
Banks;
(d) to invest any funds not inmmediately required for
the purposes of the Body corporate in such manner
as the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of the
Body corporate;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
theme such salaries, allowances and gratuities as
may be determined by the Body corporate;
(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the Body corporate; and
(h) to train the staff within Sri Lanka for the purpose of
Body corporate.
9. (1) It shall be lawful for the Body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Body
corporate35

<!-- page 7 -->

Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
6
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
of or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties and of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Body corporate;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Board, or any
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualification and disqualification to be a
members of the Body and the Body corporate;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Body corporate; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Body corporate,
and the accomplishment of its’ objects and
dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Body corporate may be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and
in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Body corporate shall at all time be
subject to the rules of the Body corporate.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
10. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donation, subscription, contribution fees or grants for and on
account of the Body corporate shall be deposited in one or
more Banks approved by the Board of Trustees to the credit
of the Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
Fund of the
Body
corporate
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.
11. (1) The financial year of the Body Corporate shall
be the calendar year.
(2) The Body corporate shall cause proper accounts  to
be kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of such Body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the Body corporate shall be audited
by a qualified auditor appointed by the Auditor-General in
terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section “qualified auditor”
means-
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners, of which being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law possesses
a certificate to practice as Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute.
12. (1) The Board of Trust shall prepare a report of the
activities of the Body corporate for each financial year and
submit such report together with the audited statement of
accounts to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
Accounts and
the Auditing
10
5
15
20
25
Annual
Report

<!-- page 9 -->

Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
8
assigned the subject of Social Services and to the Registrar
of Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under
the Voluntary Social Services Organization (Registration and
Supervision) Act,  No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six
months of the year succeeding the year to which such report
relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the Body corporate during the financial
year shall be attached to the report referred to in subsection (1).
13. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Trust  on that day shall be paid to the Body corporate for
the purpose of this Act.
14. Subject to the provision of this Act, the Body corporate
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virture of any purchase grant, gift, testamentary disposition or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the Body
corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules
of the Body corporate made under section 7, with power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
15. The moneys and property of the Body corporate
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the Body corporate and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the Body
corporate.
16. (1) The Seal of the Body corporate shall not be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of the Chairman and the Secretary or Treasurer of the Board
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
10
5
15
20
25
30
35
Debts due by
and payable
to the Trust
Body
corporate
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Application
of moneys
and property
Seal of the
Body
corporate

<!-- page 10 -->

9Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
(2) The seal of the Body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
17. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Body corporate
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the Body corporate,
but shall be given or transferred to any other institution
having objects similar to those of the Body corporate, and
which is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its members.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the Body
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10
5
15
20
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Property
remaining on
dissolution

<!-- page 11 -->

Kidney and Diabetes Lions
Hospital Trust (Incorporation)
10
Department of Government Printing