

<!-- page 1 -->

129 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
129
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 132
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 136
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd March, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 15th February, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,486 _ 2007 ïÀ´˙ÉåÖ  23 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .02.23
No. 1,486 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY   23, 2007
N.B.— Part II and Part IV(A )of the Gazette No. 1,485 of 15.02.2007 were  not published.
Quarterly Statement of Books  for April - June  2001 has been  published  on Part  V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
130
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

131 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
132
Posts - Vacant
THE  GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA
DEFENCE   ACADEMY
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male/Female)
APPLICATIONS are invited for Undergraduate Cadetships  (Male/
Female) in the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy.
2. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy is a
University empowered to award Degrees by General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent
amendments thereto, to those who have successfully completed
the Academic and Military components of studies pertaining
to the Degree programmes.
3.The Degree programmes applicable to these Cadetships
will be of three years for Arts, Commerce and Management and
Technical Sciences Streams and three and a half year duration for
Engineering Stream.
3.1 The allocation of Cadets for Three Services will be based
on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availability of vacancies
in each Service. Cadets will be commissioned in the
Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force as
applicable on successful completion of two years of the
Degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the Academic and Military
Training components of three year/three and a half  year
Degree programme, the Officer Cadets will be awarded
Bachelor’s Degree in Defence Studies in the disciplines of
Engineering, Management and Technical Sciences,
Commerce  or Arts as applicable.
3.3 The Degree Programmes are conducted in the medium of
English.
3.4 Selected candidates will have to follow one of the following
Bachelor’s Degree Programmes in Defence Studies :
(i) Bachelor of Science in Engineering in one of the
following fields (Three and-half  year duration)
(Male only).
(a) Civil Engineering
(b) Mechanical Engineering
(c) Electrical  and
 Electronic Engineering
(d) Marine Engineering
(e) Aeronautical Engineering
(ii)Bachelor of Science in Management and Technical
Sciences (Three year duration)— (Male and
Female).
For those who have reached the standard required
to considered for University Admission in
Bio-Science with Physics or Mathematics as a
subject or Physical Science at the G.C.E.
(Advanced Level).
(iii)Bachelor of Commerce (Three year duration)–
(Male and Female).
For those with Commerce subjects at the G.C.E.
(Advanced Level) and reached the standard
required to be considered for University
Admission.
(iv) Bachelor of Arts (Three year duration)—(Male
and Female).
For those who have studied Arts subjects
including one of the following subjects at the
G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination and
reached the standard required to be considered
for University admission.
Geography, Economics, History, Business
Statistics, Business Studies, Political Science,
English (Subject No. 73), Mathemetics  (Subject
No. 07).
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of
common and special subjects pertaining to the  respective
Degree Programmes including English, Management, Law,
International Studies and  Military subjects.
3.6 They are also be required to undergo continuous training in
Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and
Leadership etc. during the full period of the Degree
Programme.
4. Eligibility requirements for undergraduate cadetships :
The candidates should :-
(a) be  citizens of Sri Lanka;
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age on 23rd March, 2007 ;
(c) who have been pronounced as eligible for University
admission by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and have fulfilled the following
requirements :
For those who have
followed Physical
Science subjects at
the G.C.E.
(Advanced Level)
Examination and
reached the standard
required to be
considered for
University admission

<!-- page 5 -->

133 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
(i) Those who offered three (03) subjects at the
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held under the new
scheme should have obtained at least ‘S’ Grades:
(a) In all three  approved subjects ;
and
(b) Passed the Common General Paper and be
eligible for University admission.
(Please attach a copy of Certificate to
confirm the eligibility to apply for
University admission  issued by the  School
or Department of Examinations) ;
(ii)Have a minimum of a Credit (C) Pass for the
subject  of English Language at the G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level) examination.
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards:
Male Height : for Army 165.1 cm. (5' 5")
for Navy 168.3 cm. (5' 6")
for Air Force 168.3 cm. (5' 6")
Weight :   50Kg. (110 lbs.)
Chest :    81.25 cm. (32" unexpand)
Female Height :   153 cm (5’)
Note.— (If a Candidate possesses outstanding achievements in
sports or other relevant fields, the above physical standards may be
relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of Defence.) ;
(e) conform to the required medical standards. successful
candidates are required to pass a medical test to the
satisfaction of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence;
(f) Be unmarried. (No Cadet or Officer will be permitted to
marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so
by Service Regulations.).
5. Conditions of Service.— Selected Candidates will be enlisted
as Officer Cadets of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
Academy. They will be subjected to laws, Regulations, and Orders
under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act,
No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to enter
into a Bond and Agreement with the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka to Serve for a minimum period of 10 or 12 years as
applicable, after Commissioning in the Service to which they are
posted.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid the pay and allowances, as
applicable. The consolidated pay of an Officer Cadet is Rs. 178,440
per annum. In addition, the following facilities are also available for
Officer Cadets :
(i) Free board and lodging ;
(ii)Free medical facilities ;
(iii)Free uniforms ;
(iv) Batmen facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka
Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be paid the pay and allowances
appropriate to the rank, in accordance with the Service Pay Codes:
(a) The Salary Scales assigned to Officers up to the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel/Commander/Wing Commander are as
follows :
2/Lt/Actg. Sub. Lt./Pilot Officer = Rs. 189,240 per
annum;
Lieutenant/Sub Lieutenant/Flying Officer -
Rs. 275,220-30x7,740-Rs.507,420 per annum;
Captain/Lieutenant/Flt. Lieutenant -
Rs. 321,660-24x7,740-Rs. 507,420 per annum;
Major/Lieutenant Commander/Sqn. Leader -
Rs. 352,620-20x7,740 - Rs. 507,420 per annum;
Lt. Col/Commander/Wing Commander -
Rs. 362,100-15x9,480 — Rs. 504,300 per annum.
(b) The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) Qualification pay ;
(ii)Free feeding or ration allowance ;
(iii)Disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for
married officers only) ;
(iv) Uniform up keep allowance.
(c)  The following facilities are available/allowances payable :
(i) Free accommodation when ordered to live in ;
(ii)When living in rented quarters a rent ceiling ;
(iii)Free uniforms ;
(iv) Batmen allowance to married officers or batmen
service to unmarried officers ;
(v) One return duty warrant a month from place of
work to  home station to those who are ordered to
“live in”.
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the
following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of Service :
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force Pay Code ;
(ii)Current Regulations for Officers of the Army/Navy/Air
Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette ;
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuities
Code published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
134
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to
undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Commandant,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy and/or respective
Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for
training to any part of Sri Lanka or aboard.
12. Officer Cadets under Training will be required to live in, in
accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy or by the respective
Service Establishments.
13. Language Requirements.—Selected Candidates will be
required to comply with any rules and regulations already made or
that may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.—Candidates will be required to produce
proof as to their identity. Identity Cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master-General and Driving
Licences issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted
for this purpose.
15. Applications.—Those who wish to apply for Cadetships, can
either prepare the Application as in the Specimen Application form
appended to this notification or obtain application forms and the
brochure which provides more information by sending a self
addressed  9” X 4” envelope with stamp worth of Rs. 5 (Five
Rupees) to the Registrar of the General, Sir John Kotelawala
Defence Academy.
16. Duly filled Applications should accompany a receipt obtained
by paying  Rs. 100 (One Hundred Rupees) to any Bank of Ceylon
Branch in the island in  favour of “Commandant, Kotelawala Defence
Academy” to be Credited to Current Account No. “681950” of
Bank of Ceylon “Moratuwa-Idama” Branch. The Applications
without at least basic qualifications, no duly   without any information
to the Applicant. The  Application fee will not be refunded under
any circumstances.  Further a self addressed envelope with stamp
worth Rs. 5/-   (Five Rupees) should be sent along with the
application.
17. The perfected Applications should be forwarded in duplicate
to the “Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy,
Kandawala Estate, Ratmalana” under registered cover to reach
him on or before 23rd March, 2007. The left-hand top corner of
the envelope should be marked “Application for Cadetships”.
Applications received at the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
Academy after the closing date or do not conform to the
requirements of this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications from Officers in Government Service and
Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through
the Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies
and should accompany a certificate to the effect that the Officer
would be released, if  selected.
19. Applications should be accompanied by copies of
certificates of Registration of Birth and Educational Qualifications.
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those
candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterion determined by the Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General, Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Academy. Candidates so selected will be
required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Board of
Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy.
The final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Academy.
21. Candidates calling for interviews and tests will be informed in
writing of the venues, times and the dates of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid for this purpose to
Applicants.
22. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
23. Receipt of Applications will not be acknowledged. No
correspondence or inquires will be entertained with regard to rejected
Applications.
G
OTABAYA  RAJAPAKSA , RWP, RSP psc
Secretary, Ministry of Defence Public Security   Law
 and Order and Chairman of the Board of Management,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy.
For official use.
THE GENERAL SIR JOHN KOTELAWALA DEFENCE
 ACADEMY  APPLICA TION FOR UNDERGRADUATE
CADETSHIPS
NID No.
01. Name (In Block Letters) :
(a) Full Name : ————.
(b) Name with Initials : Mr./Miss : ————.
02. (a) Address  : ————.
(b) Tel. No.  : ————.
03. Date of Birth :     Year Month Date
04. Age : As at 23.03.2007    Years Months Days

<!-- page 7 -->

135 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
05. Civil Status : Married Single
06. Sex : Male Female
07. Sri Lanka Citizenship : By Descent / By Registration
: ————.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Name of the School you studied for the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination :
………………………………………
………………………………………
Index No. : ————.
Year : ————.
Subject   Grade
1. …………………………… ………………
2. …………………………… ………………
3. …………………………… ………………
4. …………………………… ………………
5. …………………………… ………………
6. …………………………… ………………
7. …………………………… ………………
8. …………………………… ………………
9. …………………………… ………………
Indicate whether you have “D/A” “B/C” or “S” Pass for
English at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
(b) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Name of the School you studied for the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination :
………………………………………
………………………………………
Index No. : ————.
Year : ————.
“Z” Score : ————.
Subject   Grade
1. …………………………… ………………
2. …………………………… ………………
3. …………………………… ………………
4. General Test Marks : ————.
Stream
Physical Bio Commerce Arts
Whether you have been pronounced as eligible to apply
for University Admission by the Commissioner General
of Examinations :
Yes   No  
(Please attach a copy of the result sheet or a letter from  the Principal)
09. In what Games have you represented :
*SL *DL *CL *NL
(a) Athletics
(b) Badminton
(c) Basketball
(d) Cricket
(e) Hockey
(f) Rugby
(g) Soccer
(h) Swimming
(i) Table Tennis
(j) Tennis
(k) V olley Ball
(l) Wrestling
(m ) Karate
(n) Judo
(o) Boxing
(p) Squash
*SL –  School Level
*DL –  District Level
*CL –  Club Level
*NL –  National Level
10. Extra Curricular Activities :
(a) Band
(b) Cadetting
(c) Scouting
(d) Societies
(e) Prefect
(f) House Captain
(g) School Captain
(h)
(i)
11. Physical Requirements :
Hight Weight Chest
    Ft.  Inches Lbs. Inches

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
136
12. Any Other relevant facts : ——————————————
      —————————————————————————
   —————————————————————————
   —————————————————————————
(Please attach a separate sheet if necessary)
13. Details of Two Referees :
(i)Name Address Designation Telephone No.
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
(ii)
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
14. Please pay  Rs. 100 (One Hundred Rupees) to any Bank of
Ceylon Branch in the Island in favour of “Commandant,
Kotelawala Defence Academy” to be Credited to Current
Account No. “681950” of Bank of Ceylon “Moratuwa-Idama
Branch” and give following details. (receipt should be attached
here to).
(i) Date of Payment :
(ii)BOC Branch of payment :
15. I declare in honour that the information given above me are to
the best of my knowledge and belief, correct. I am aware that if
any information given in the application are found to be incorrect,
prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified, and if it is
found after the selection. I am liable to be dismissed without
any compensation.
————.
Signature of Applicant.
Date : ————.
02-636
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of  Pupil Nurses — 2006 -II
APPLICATIONS  are invited from the unmarried citizens of
Sri Lanka with following qualifications for recruitment as Pupil Nurses
under the Department of Health Services. (The Number or
recruitments of males will be based on the requirements of
Institutions under the Control of the Ministry.)
01. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination untill year
2005 with minimum of 03 subjects from the Science stream
of subjects.
(b) Passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six
subjects at not more than two sittings, with credit passes
for 04 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Science.
The certified Photostat copies of the certificate of the
above two examinations should be attached to the
application to confirm the educational qualifications.
02.  Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Should be not less than 18 and not more 30 years of age as
at 23.03.2007.
(c) Height should be not less than 04 feet 10 inches.
(d) Should be unmarried
(e) Should be physically fit and willing to serve in any part of
the island.
(f) Certified copies of the voters’ list should be sent along
with the application to prove 03 years residence within
the district applied for by the candidate. If the name of the
applicant is not available in the voters’ list, the names of
his/her, parents should be available in the voters’ list.
In order to confirm the names of the parents, a certified
copy of the Certificate of Birth of the applicant should be
sent along with the application.
Only those applicant who satisfy the above qualifications
will be called for the interview. The required number will
be selected at district level based on the merit order of
marks secured at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
3.  Method of application :
(a) Application should be prepared using both sides of a
paper in the size of 8 1/2 x 13 1/2 inches on the form of
specimen appended to this notice. The Section 01-09 should
appear on page No. 01 Section 10 page No. 02 and Section
11-14 page No. 03 as per given in the specimen form of
application.
(b) Application duly perfected should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Director (Admn.) 01,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition, No. 385,
“Suwasiripaya”, Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 23.03.2007.  The
words “Recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training 2006 -
II” should be already written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing applications. Applications
received late will be rejected while the Department will
not take this responsibility of any lost or delay of
applications in the post.

<!-- page 9 -->

137 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
The signature of the applications should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountant Services/Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by an officer in the public service holding a post with an
inital salary not less than Rs. 80,160.
(c) Should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 100 in the stamp
cage provided in the application and cancel the stamps by
placing  the applicant’s signature on it.
04. Scheme of Training :
(a) The selected applicants will be admitted to the nursing
training school as pupil nurses and they should follow the
training course for 03 years in Sinhala/Tamil language
medium.
(b) The trainees at the time of admission to the training will be
provided with rules and  regulations are force within the
school of training. They are bound by these rules and
regulations and also by an other rules and regulations which
would be enforced from time to time.
(c) The trainees who are unsuccessful at the prescribed
examinations or whose work and conduct are found to be
unsatisfactory or who failed to comply with the
examination and leave regulations of the school of which
they are assigned during the period of training are liable to
be discontinued from training at any time without
payment of any compensation. The trainees will not
entitle for any type of leave during the training period and
deductions will be made from the  monthly allowance in
the proportion with the month of days absent from
training. However, it is compulsory to mark 80% of
attendance each year to become qualify to sit for the
examination.
(d) The trainees during the period of training in a school nurs-
ing will be paid an allowance as follows.
1st Year - Rs. 12,920 (per month)
2nd Year - Rs 13,040 (per month)
3rd Year - Rs. 13,160 (per month)
The trainees who pass the final examination, after
successful completion of training, they will be appointed
to the post of staff nurse Grade II Seg. “B” by the Director
General of Health Services on the relevant salary scales
defending on the availability of vacancies of the post.
(e) The trainee should pay to the Department all the
allowances paid to him/her and the all expenses incurred
by the government for training on his/her behalf within the
period of training, provided he/she withdrew or vacated
from training during the period of training.
05. Condition and the agreement of remaining unmarried
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time of submitting
their applications and it is compulsory that they should
remain unmarried, during the period of 03 years training.
A certificate obtained from the Grama Niladhari
countersigned by the Divisional Secretary confirming the
status of being unmarried  should be send along with the
application.
(b) The pupil nurses at the time of admission to the nurse’s
training school should enter into an agreement with the
Director General of Health Services that they complete
the training successfully and serve the Department of
Health Services minimum of 10 years after completion of
training. The Director General of Health Services will decide
on this period from time to time.
06. Term of engagement :
(a) The post of staff nurse to which  the pupil nurses are
appointed on the results of the final examination conducted
at the end of the training is pensionable and contribution
should be made to the contributory pension scheme.
(b) The appointment to the post of staff nurse Grade II Seg.
“B” will be subject on the 3 - year probation.
07. Service conditions :
(a) All the trainees before commencement of the training
School, should undergo a medical examination.
(b) Appointment will be given to the vacancies existing in the
post of nursing officer Grade II Seg. “B” on the salary
scale of Rs. 15,080 - 5 x 150 -9 x 240 - 7 x 240- 20 x 320 -
Rs. 26,420 (General Circular Letter No.  6/2006)
(c) All the Officers in the nursing service are subject to the
provisions in the establishment code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Transfers implemented in
terms of policies stipulated by the Department of Health
Services. Financial and the other regulation and to the other
rules and  regulations enforced by the Government by
time to time.
Dr.  H. A. P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
B3 -B 079455

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
138
APPLICATION  FOR  THE RECRUITMENT  FOR  THE  PUPIL  NURSE’S  TRAINING - 2006 II
01. (a)   Name with initials (in English capitals) :———.
 (b)  Name in full (in English capitals):———.
02. Postal Address :———.
03. (a) Permanent Address :———.
   (b) District :———.
04. Date of Birth :———.
Year............... Month..............  Date :..................
05. Male/Female : Mark        in the relevant cage : Male
Female
06. Whether Citizen of Sri Lanka Mark         in the relevant   cage : Y es
No
07. National Identity Card No :———.
08. Height :———. Feet :———. Inches :———.
09.Medium of Training :   Mark       in the relevant cage :——. Sinhala
Tamil
10. (a) General Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination (Science Stream of Subjects)
(Please attach a copy of the mark sheet)
Year: Index No :
Subject Grade For Office Subject Grade For Office
 use only  use only
1. 3.
2. 4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)   Examination :———,
(i) Year and month of the Examination :———.
(ii)Index No :———.
(iii)First Sitting :———.
Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
only only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.

<!-- page 11 -->

139 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
(iv) Second Sitting :————, Index No :————.
Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
only only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
11. Have you been found guilty for any charge by a Court of Law?:———. Y es
No.
If ‘yes’  please give details :———.
12. Please indicate in order of your preference the School of Nursing you are willing to undergo training you were selected for Pupils
Nurse’s Training :———.
(Preference may be marked numerically as 1, 2 etc.)
School of  Nursing Colombo
School of  Nursing Kandy
School of  Nursing Jaffna
School of  Nursing Kandana
School of  Nursing Anuradhapura
School of  Nursing Galle
School of  Nursing Kurunagala
School of  Nursing Badulla
School of  Nursing Ratnapura
School of  Nursing Batticaloa
School of  Nursing Sri Jayawardhenapura
School of  Nursing Ampara
13.  (a)  I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my Knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained there in are found to be false or incorrect I am liable to disqualification before
selection and to dismissal, if it is  discovered so after appointment.
Affix stamps to the value Rs.100 and cancel same by signing over it.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
14.  Attestation :
I do here by certify that the applicant ………………………… is personally known by me, and he/she is placed his/her signature
in my presence on................  day of......... 2007.
————,
Attester’s Singnature.
Full name of the Attesting Officer :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
Date :———.
02-670
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.

<!-- page 12 -->

129 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
129
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 132
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 136
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd March, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 15th February, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,486 _ 2007 ïÀ´˙ÉåÖ  23 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .02.23
No. 1,486 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY   23, 2007
N.B.— Part II and Part IV(A )of the Gazette No. 1,485 of 15.02.2007 were  not published.
Quarterly Statement of Books  for April - June  2001 has been  published  on Part  V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
130
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 14 -->

131 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
132
Posts - Vacant
THE  GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA
DEFENCE   ACADEMY
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male/Female)
APPLICATIONS are invited for Undergraduate Cadetships  (Male/
Female) in the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy.
2. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy is a
University empowered to award Degrees by General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent
amendments thereto, to those who have successfully completed
the Academic and Military components of studies pertaining
to the Degree programmes.
3.The Degree programmes applicable to these Cadetships
will be of three years for Arts, Commerce and Management and
Technical Sciences Streams and three and a half year duration for
Engineering Stream.
3.1 The allocation of Cadets for Three Services will be based
on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availability of vacancies
in each Service. Cadets will be commissioned in the
Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force as
applicable on successful completion of two years of the
Degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the Academic and Military
Training components of three year/three and a half  year
Degree programme, the Officer Cadets will be awarded
Bachelor’s Degree in Defence Studies in the disciplines of
Engineering, Management and Technical Sciences,
Commerce  or Arts as applicable.
3.3 The Degree Programmes are conducted in the medium of
English.
3.4 Selected candidates will have to follow one of the following
Bachelor’s Degree Programmes in Defence Studies :
(i) Bachelor of Science in Engineering in one of the
following fields (Three and-half  year duration)
(Male only).
(a) Civil Engineering
(b) Mechanical Engineering
(c) Electrical  and
 Electronic Engineering
(d) Marine Engineering
(e) Aeronautical Engineering
(ii)Bachelor of Science in Management and Technical
Sciences (Three year duration)— (Male and
Female).
For those who have reached the standard required
to considered for University Admission in
Bio-Science with Physics or Mathematics as a
subject or Physical Science at the G.C.E.
(Advanced Level).
(iii)Bachelor of Commerce (Three year duration)–
(Male and Female).
For those with Commerce subjects at the G.C.E.
(Advanced Level) and reached the standard
required to be considered for University
Admission.
(iv) Bachelor of Arts (Three year duration)—(Male
and Female).
For those who have studied Arts subjects
including one of the following subjects at the
G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination and
reached the standard required to be considered
for University admission.
Geography, Economics, History, Business
Statistics, Business Studies, Political Science,
English (Subject No. 73), Mathemetics  (Subject
No. 07).
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of
common and special subjects pertaining to the  respective
Degree Programmes including English, Management, Law,
International Studies and  Military subjects.
3.6 They are also be required to undergo continuous training in
Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and
Leadership etc. during the full period of the Degree
Programme.
4. Eligibility requirements for undergraduate cadetships :
The candidates should :-
(a) be  citizens of Sri Lanka;
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age on 23rd March, 2007 ;
(c) who have been pronounced as eligible for University
admission by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and have fulfilled the following
requirements :
For those who have
followed Physical
Science subjects at
the G.C.E.
(Advanced Level)
Examination and
reached the standard
required to be
considered for
University admission

<!-- page 16 -->

133 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
(i) Those who offered three (03) subjects at the
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held under the new
scheme should have obtained at least ‘S’ Grades:
(a) In all three  approved subjects ;
and
(b) Passed the Common General Paper and be
eligible for University admission.
(Please attach a copy of Certificate to
confirm the eligibility to apply for
University admission  issued by the  School
or Department of Examinations) ;
(ii)Have a minimum of a Credit (C) Pass for the
subject  of English Language at the G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level) examination.
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards:
Male Height : for Army 165.1 cm. (5' 5")
for Navy 168.3 cm. (5' 6")
for Air Force 168.3 cm. (5' 6")
Weight :   50Kg. (110 lbs.)
Chest :    81.25 cm. (32" unexpand)
Female Height :   153 cm (5’)
Note.— (If a Candidate possesses outstanding achievements in
sports or other relevant fields, the above physical standards may be
relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of Defence.) ;
(e) conform to the required medical standards. successful
candidates are required to pass a medical test to the
satisfaction of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence;
(f) Be unmarried. (No Cadet or Officer will be permitted to
marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so
by Service Regulations.).
5. Conditions of Service.— Selected Candidates will be enlisted
as Officer Cadets of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
Academy. They will be subjected to laws, Regulations, and Orders
under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act,
No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to enter
into a Bond and Agreement with the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka to Serve for a minimum period of 10 or 12 years as
applicable, after Commissioning in the Service to which they are
posted.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid the pay and allowances, as
applicable. The consolidated pay of an Officer Cadet is Rs. 178,440
per annum. In addition, the following facilities are also available for
Officer Cadets :
(i) Free board and lodging ;
(ii)Free medical facilities ;
(iii)Free uniforms ;
(iv) Batmen facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka
Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be paid the pay and allowances
appropriate to the rank, in accordance with the Service Pay Codes:
(a) The Salary Scales assigned to Officers up to the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel/Commander/Wing Commander are as
follows :
2/Lt/Actg. Sub. Lt./Pilot Officer = Rs. 189,240 per
annum;
Lieutenant/Sub Lieutenant/Flying Officer -
Rs. 275,220-30x7,740-Rs.507,420 per annum;
Captain/Lieutenant/Flt. Lieutenant -
Rs. 321,660-24x7,740-Rs. 507,420 per annum;
Major/Lieutenant Commander/Sqn. Leader -
Rs. 352,620-20x7,740 - Rs. 507,420 per annum;
Lt. Col/Commander/Wing Commander -
Rs. 362,100-15x9,480 — Rs. 504,300 per annum.
(b) The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) Qualification pay ;
(ii)Free feeding or ration allowance ;
(iii)Disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for
married officers only) ;
(iv) Uniform up keep allowance.
(c)  The following facilities are available/allowances payable :
(i) Free accommodation when ordered to live in ;
(ii)When living in rented quarters a rent ceiling ;
(iii)Free uniforms ;
(iv) Batmen allowance to married officers or batmen
service to unmarried officers ;
(v) One return duty warrant a month from place of
work to  home station to those who are ordered to
“live in”.
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the
following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of Service :
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force Pay Code ;
(ii)Current Regulations for Officers of the Army/Navy/Air
Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette ;
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuities
Code published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
134
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to
undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Commandant,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy and/or respective
Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for
training to any part of Sri Lanka or aboard.
12. Officer Cadets under Training will be required to live in, in
accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy or by the respective
Service Establishments.
13. Language Requirements.—Selected Candidates will be
required to comply with any rules and regulations already made or
that may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.—Candidates will be required to produce
proof as to their identity. Identity Cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master-General and Driving
Licences issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted
for this purpose.
15. Applications.—Those who wish to apply for Cadetships, can
either prepare the Application as in the Specimen Application form
appended to this notification or obtain application forms and the
brochure which provides more information by sending a self
addressed  9” X 4” envelope with stamp worth of Rs. 5 (Five
Rupees) to the Registrar of the General, Sir John Kotelawala
Defence Academy.
16. Duly filled Applications should accompany a receipt obtained
by paying  Rs. 100 (One Hundred Rupees) to any Bank of Ceylon
Branch in the island in  favour of “Commandant, Kotelawala Defence
Academy” to be Credited to Current Account No. “681950” of
Bank of Ceylon “Moratuwa-Idama” Branch. The Applications
without at least basic qualifications, no duly   without any information
to the Applicant. The  Application fee will not be refunded under
any circumstances.  Further a self addressed envelope with stamp
worth Rs. 5/-   (Five Rupees) should be sent along with the
application.
17. The perfected Applications should be forwarded in duplicate
to the “Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy,
Kandawala Estate, Ratmalana” under registered cover to reach
him on or before 23rd March, 2007. The left-hand top corner of
the envelope should be marked “Application for Cadetships”.
Applications received at the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
Academy after the closing date or do not conform to the
requirements of this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications from Officers in Government Service and
Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through
the Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies
and should accompany a certificate to the effect that the Officer
would be released, if  selected.
19. Applications should be accompanied by copies of
certificates of Registration of Birth and Educational Qualifications.
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those
candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterion determined by the Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General, Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Academy. Candidates so selected will be
required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Board of
Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy.
The final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Academy.
21. Candidates calling for interviews and tests will be informed in
writing of the venues, times and the dates of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid for this purpose to
Applicants.
22. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
23. Receipt of Applications will not be acknowledged. No
correspondence or inquires will be entertained with regard to rejected
Applications.
G
OTABAYA  RAJAPAKSA , RWP, RSP psc
Secretary, Ministry of Defence Public Security   Law
 and Order and Chairman of the Board of Management,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy.
For official use.
THE GENERAL SIR JOHN KOTELAWALA DEFENCE
 ACADEMY  APPLICA TION FOR UNDERGRADUATE
CADETSHIPS
NID No.
01. Name (In Block Letters) :
(a) Full Name : ————.
(b) Name with Initials : Mr./Miss : ————.
02. (a) Address  : ————.
(b) Tel. No.  : ————.
03. Date of Birth :     Year Month Date
04. Age : As at 23.03.2007    Years Months Days

<!-- page 18 -->

135 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
05. Civil Status : Married Single
06. Sex : Male Female
07. Sri Lanka Citizenship : By Descent / By Registration
: ————.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Name of the School you studied for the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination :
………………………………………
………………………………………
Index No. : ————.
Year : ————.
Subject   Grade
1. …………………………… ………………
2. …………………………… ………………
3. …………………………… ………………
4. …………………………… ………………
5. …………………………… ………………
6. …………………………… ………………
7. …………………………… ………………
8. …………………………… ………………
9. …………………………… ………………
Indicate whether you have “D/A” “B/C” or “S” Pass for
English at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
(b) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Name of the School you studied for the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination :
………………………………………
………………………………………
Index No. : ————.
Year : ————.
“Z” Score : ————.
Subject   Grade
1. …………………………… ………………
2. …………………………… ………………
3. …………………………… ………………
4. General Test Marks : ————.
Stream
Physical Bio Commerce Arts
Whether you have been pronounced as eligible to apply
for University Admission by the Commissioner General
of Examinations :
Yes   No  
(Please attach a copy of the result sheet or a letter from  the Principal)
09. In what Games have you represented :
*SL *DL *CL *NL
(a) Athletics
(b) Badminton
(c) Basketball
(d) Cricket
(e) Hockey
(f) Rugby
(g) Soccer
(h) Swimming
(i) Table Tennis
(j) Tennis
(k) V olley Ball
(l) Wrestling
(m ) Karate
(n) Judo
(o) Boxing
(p) Squash
*SL –  School Level
*DL –  District Level
*CL –  Club Level
*NL –  National Level
10. Extra Curricular Activities :
(a) Band
(b) Cadetting
(c) Scouting
(d) Societies
(e) Prefect
(f) House Captain
(g) School Captain
(h)
(i)
11. Physical Requirements :
Hight Weight Chest
    Ft.  Inches Lbs. Inches

<!-- page 19 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
136
12. Any Other relevant facts : ——————————————
      —————————————————————————
   —————————————————————————
   —————————————————————————
(Please attach a separate sheet if necessary)
13. Details of Two Referees :
(i)Name Address Designation Telephone No.
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
(ii)
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
———— ———— ———— ————
14. Please pay  Rs. 100 (One Hundred Rupees) to any Bank of
Ceylon Branch in the Island in favour of “Commandant,
Kotelawala Defence Academy” to be Credited to Current
Account No. “681950” of Bank of Ceylon “Moratuwa-Idama
Branch” and give following details. (receipt should be attached
here to).
(i) Date of Payment :
(ii)BOC Branch of payment :
15. I declare in honour that the information given above me are to
the best of my knowledge and belief, correct. I am aware that if
any information given in the application are found to be incorrect,
prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified, and if it is
found after the selection. I am liable to be dismissed without
any compensation.
————.
Signature of Applicant.
Date : ————.
02-636
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of  Pupil Nurses — 2006 -II
APPLICATIONS  are invited from the unmarried citizens of
Sri Lanka with following qualifications for recruitment as Pupil Nurses
under the Department of Health Services. (The Number or
recruitments of males will be based on the requirements of
Institutions under the Control of the Ministry.)
01. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination untill year
2005 with minimum of 03 subjects from the Science stream
of subjects.
(b) Passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six
subjects at not more than two sittings, with credit passes
for 04 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Science.
The certified Photostat copies of the certificate of the
above two examinations should be attached to the
application to confirm the educational qualifications.
02.  Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Should be not less than 18 and not more 30 years of age as
at 23.03.2007.
(c) Height should be not less than 04 feet 10 inches.
(d) Should be unmarried
(e) Should be physically fit and willing to serve in any part of
the island.
(f) Certified copies of the voters’ list should be sent along
with the application to prove 03 years residence within
the district applied for by the candidate. If the name of the
applicant is not available in the voters’ list, the names of
his/her, parents should be available in the voters’ list.
In order to confirm the names of the parents, a certified
copy of the Certificate of Birth of the applicant should be
sent along with the application.
Only those applicant who satisfy the above qualifications
will be called for the interview. The required number will
be selected at district level based on the merit order of
marks secured at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
3.  Method of application :
(a) Application should be prepared using both sides of a
paper in the size of 8 1/2 x 13 1/2 inches on the form of
specimen appended to this notice. The Section 01-09 should
appear on page No. 01 Section 10 page No. 02 and Section
11-14 page No. 03 as per given in the specimen form of
application.
(b) Application duly perfected should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Director (Admn.) 01,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition, No. 385,
“Suwasiripaya”, Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 23.03.2007.  The
words “Recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training 2006 -
II” should be already written on the top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing applications. Applications
received late will be rejected while the Department will
not take this responsibility of any lost or delay of
applications in the post.

<!-- page 20 -->

137 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
The signature of the applications should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountant Services/Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by an officer in the public service holding a post with an
inital salary not less than Rs. 80,160.
(c) Should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 100 in the stamp
cage provided in the application and cancel the stamps by
placing  the applicant’s signature on it.
04. Scheme of Training :
(a) The selected applicants will be admitted to the nursing
training school as pupil nurses and they should follow the
training course for 03 years in Sinhala/Tamil language
medium.
(b) The trainees at the time of admission to the training will be
provided with rules and  regulations are force within the
school of training. They are bound by these rules and
regulations and also by an other rules and regulations which
would be enforced from time to time.
(c) The trainees who are unsuccessful at the prescribed
examinations or whose work and conduct are found to be
unsatisfactory or who failed to comply with the
examination and leave regulations of the school of which
they are assigned during the period of training are liable to
be discontinued from training at any time without
payment of any compensation. The trainees will not
entitle for any type of leave during the training period and
deductions will be made from the  monthly allowance in
the proportion with the month of days absent from
training. However, it is compulsory to mark 80% of
attendance each year to become qualify to sit for the
examination.
(d) The trainees during the period of training in a school nurs-
ing will be paid an allowance as follows.
1st Year - Rs. 12,920 (per month)
2nd Year - Rs 13,040 (per month)
3rd Year - Rs. 13,160 (per month)
The trainees who pass the final examination, after
successful completion of training, they will be appointed
to the post of staff nurse Grade II Seg. “B” by the Director
General of Health Services on the relevant salary scales
defending on the availability of vacancies of the post.
(e) The trainee should pay to the Department all the
allowances paid to him/her and the all expenses incurred
by the government for training on his/her behalf within the
period of training, provided he/she withdrew or vacated
from training during the period of training.
05. Condition and the agreement of remaining unmarried
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time of submitting
their applications and it is compulsory that they should
remain unmarried, during the period of 03 years training.
A certificate obtained from the Grama Niladhari
countersigned by the Divisional Secretary confirming the
status of being unmarried  should be send along with the
application.
(b) The pupil nurses at the time of admission to the nurse’s
training school should enter into an agreement with the
Director General of Health Services that they complete
the training successfully and serve the Department of
Health Services minimum of 10 years after completion of
training. The Director General of Health Services will decide
on this period from time to time.
06. Term of engagement :
(a) The post of staff nurse to which  the pupil nurses are
appointed on the results of the final examination conducted
at the end of the training is pensionable and contribution
should be made to the contributory pension scheme.
(b) The appointment to the post of staff nurse Grade II Seg.
“B” will be subject on the 3 - year probation.
07. Service conditions :
(a) All the trainees before commencement of the training
School, should undergo a medical examination.
(b) Appointment will be given to the vacancies existing in the
post of nursing officer Grade II Seg. “B” on the salary
scale of Rs. 15,080 - 5 x 150 -9 x 240 - 7 x 240- 20 x 320 -
Rs. 26,420 (General Circular Letter No.  6/2006)
(c) All the Officers in the nursing service are subject to the
provisions in the establishment code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Transfers implemented in
terms of policies stipulated by the Department of Health
Services. Financial and the other regulation and to the other
rules and  regulations enforced by the Government by
time to time.
Dr.  H. A. P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
B3 -B 079455

<!-- page 21 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
138
APPLICATION  FOR  THE RECRUITMENT  FOR  THE  PUPIL  NURSE’S  TRAINING - 2006 II
01. (a)   Name with initials (in English capitals) :———.
 (b)  Name in full (in English capitals):———.
02. Postal Address :———.
03. (a) Permanent Address :———.
   (b) District :———.
04. Date of Birth :———.
Year............... Month..............  Date :..................
05. Male/Female : Mark        in the relevant cage : Male
Female
06. Whether Citizen of Sri Lanka Mark         in the relevant   cage : Y es
No
07. National Identity Card No :———.
08. Height :———. Feet :———. Inches :———.
09.Medium of Training :   Mark       in the relevant cage :——. Sinhala
Tamil
10. (a) General Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination (Science Stream of Subjects)
(Please attach a copy of the mark sheet)
Year: Index No :
Subject Grade For Office Subject Grade For Office
 use only  use only
1. 3.
2. 4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)   Examination :———,
(i) Year and month of the Examination :———.
(ii)Index No :———.
(iii)First Sitting :———.
Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
only only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.

<!-- page 22 -->

139 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2007
(iv) Second Sitting :————, Index No :————.
Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
only only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
11. Have you been found guilty for any charge by a Court of Law?:———. Y es
No.
If ‘yes’  please give details :———.
12. Please indicate in order of your preference the School of Nursing you are willing to undergo training you were selected for Pupils
Nurse’s Training :———.
(Preference may be marked numerically as 1, 2 etc.)
School of  Nursing Colombo
School of  Nursing Kandy
School of  Nursing Jaffna
School of  Nursing Kandana
School of  Nursing Anuradhapura
School of  Nursing Galle
School of  Nursing Kurunagala
School of  Nursing Badulla
School of  Nursing Ratnapura
School of  Nursing Batticaloa
School of  Nursing Sri Jayawardhenapura
School of  Nursing Ampara
13.  (a)  I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my Knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained there in are found to be false or incorrect I am liable to disqualification before
selection and to dismissal, if it is  discovered so after appointment.
Affix stamps to the value Rs.100 and cancel same by signing over it.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
14.  Attestation :
I do here by certify that the applicant ………………………… is personally known by me, and he/she is placed his/her signature
in my presence on................  day of......... 2007.
————,
Attester’s Singnature.
Full name of the Attesting Officer :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
Date :———.
02-670
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.