

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1898$31 - 2015 ckjdß 21 jeks nodod - 2015'01'21
No. 1898/31  -  WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY 21,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1APG 2336 (01/2015)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard - SLFRS 9 : Financial Instruments, published
herewith for the purpose of Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall be
effective for financial statements covering period commending on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Eighteen
earlier application is permitted.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
 Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
21st January, 2015.
N. B.– Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette will be published separately.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
2A
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard– SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments
CONTENTS
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  STANDARD  –  SLFRS  9
FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS
CHAPTERS
1 OBJECTIVE 1.1
2 SCOPE 2.1
3 RECOGNITION  AND  DERECOGNITION  3.1.1
4 CLASSIFICATION  4.1.1
5 MEASUREMENT  5.1.1
6 HEDGE  ACCOUNTING  6.1.1
7 EFFECTIVE  DATE  AND  TRANSITION  7.1.1
APPENDICES
A Defined terms
B Application guidance
C Amendments to other Standards
Financial Reporting Standard – SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments
Chapter 1 Objective
1.1 The objective of this Standard is to establish principles for the financial reporting of financial assets and financial
liabilities that will present relevant and useful information to users of financial statements for their assessment of
the amounts, timing and uncertainty of an entity’s future cash flows.
Chapter 2 Scope
2.1 This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:
(a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance with SLFRS
10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements or LKAS 28 Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10, LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit
an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture in accordance with some or all of
the requirements of this Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to derivatives on an interest in a
subsidiary, associate or joint venture unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument of the
entity in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
3A
(b) rights and obligations under leases to which LKAS 17 Leases applies.However:
(i) lease receivables recognised by a lessor are subject to the derecognition and impairment requirements
of this Standard;
(ii) finance lease payables recognised by a lessee are subject to the derecognition requirements of this
Standard; and
(iii) derivatives that are embedded in leases are subject to the embedded derivatives requirements of this
Standard.
(c) employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans, to which LKAS 19 Employee Benefits applies.
(d) financial instruments issued by the entity that meet the definition of an equity instrument in LKAS 32
(including options and warrants) or that are required to be classified as an equity instrument in accordance
with paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D of LKAS 32. However, the holder of such equity
instruments shall apply this Standard to those instruments, unless they meet the exception in (a).
(e) rights and obligations arising under (i) an insurance contract as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts,
other than an issuer’s rights and obligations arising under an insurance contract that meets the definition of
a financial guarantee contract, or (ii) a contract that is within the scope of SLFRS 4 because it contains a
discretionary participation feature. However, this Standard applies to a derivative that is embedded in a contract
within the scope of SLFRS 4 if the derivative is not itself a contract within the scope of SLFRS 4. Moreover, if
an issuer of financial guarantee contracts has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as
insurance contracts and has used accounting that is applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to
apply either this Standard or SLFRS 4 to such financial guarantee contracts (see paragraphs B2.5–B2.6). The
issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.
(f) any forward contract between an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result
in a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3 Business Combinations at a future acquisition date.
The term of the forward contract should not exceed a reasonable period normally necessary to obtain any
required approvals and to complete the transaction.
(g) loan commitments other than those loan commitments described in paragraph 2.3. However, an issuer of loan
commitments shall apply the impairment requirements of this Standard to loan commitments that are not
otherwise within the scope of this Standard. Also, all loan commitments are subject to the derecognition
requirements of this Standard.
(h) financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions to which SLFRS 2
Share-based Payment applies, except for contracts within the scope of paragraphs 2.4–2.7 of this Standard to
which this Standard applies.
(i) rights to payments to reimburse the entity for expenditure that it is required to make to settle a liability that
it recognises as a provision in accordance with LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent
Assets, or for which, in an earlier period, it recognised a provision in accordance with LKAS 37.
(j) rights and obligations within the scope of SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers that are financial
instruments, except for those that SLFRS 15 specifies are accounted for in accordance with this Standard.
2.2 The impairment requirements of this Standard shall be applied to those rights that SLFRS 15 specifies are
accounted for in accordance with this Standard for the purposes of recognising impairment gains or losses.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
4A
2.3 The following loan commitments are within the scope of this Standard:
(a) loan commitments that the entity designates as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (see
paragraph 4.2.2). An entity that has a past practice of selling the assets resulting from its loan commitments
shortly after origination shall apply this Standard to all its loan commitments in the same class.
(b) loan commitments that can be settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument.
These loan commitments are derivatives. A loan commitment is not regarded as settled net merely because the
loan is paid out in instalments (for example, a mortgage construction loan that is paid out in instalments in line
with the progress of construction).
(c) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate (see paragraph 4.2.1(d)).
2.4 This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash
or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial
instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the
receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage
requirements. However, this Standard shall be applied to those contracts that an entity designates as measured at
fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 2.5.
2.5 A contract to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or by
exchanging financial instruments, as if the contract was a financial instrument, may be irrevocably designated as
measured at fair value through profit or loss even if it was entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of
a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. This designation
is available only at inception of the contract and only if it eliminates or significantly reduces a recognition
inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting mismatch’) that would otherwise arise from not recognising
that contract because it is excluded from the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.4).
2.6 There are various ways in which a contract to buy or sell a non-financial item can be settled net in cash or another
financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments. These include:
(a) when the terms of the contract permit either party to settle it net in cash or another financial instrument or by
exchanging financial instruments;
(b) when the ability to settle net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, is
not explicit in the terms of the contract, but the entity has a practice of settling similar contracts net in cash or
another financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments (whether with the counterparty, by entering
into offsetting contracts or by selling the contract before its exercise or lapse);
(c) when, for similar contracts, the entity has a practice of taking delivery of the underlying and selling it within a
short period after delivery for the purpose of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer’s
margin; and
(d) when the non-financial item that is the subject of the contract is readily convertible to cash.
A contract to which (b) or (c) applies is not entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-
financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements and, accordingly, is
within the scope of this Standard. Other contracts to which paragraph 2.4 applies are evaluated to determine
whether they were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-
financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements and, accordingly,
whether they are within the scope of this Standard.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
5A
2.7 A written option to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument,
or by exchanging financial instruments, in accordance with paragraph 2.6(a) or 2.6(d) is within the scope of this
Standard. Such a contract cannot be entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial
item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
Chapter 3 Recognition and Derecognition
3.1 Initial Recognition
3.1.1 An entity shall recognise a financial asset or a financial liability in its statement of financial position when,
and only when, the entity becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument (see paragraphs
B3.1.1 and B3.1.2). When an entity first recognises a financial asset, it shall classify it in accordance with
paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.5 and measure it in accordance with paragraphs 5.1.1–5.1.3. When an entity first
recognises a financial liability, it shall classify it in accordance with paragraphs 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and measure
it in accordance with paragraph 5.1.1.
Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
3.1.2 A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised and derecognised, as applicable, using
trade date accounting or settlement date accounting (see paragraphs B3.1.3–B3.1.6).
3.2 Derecognition of Financial Assets
3.2.1 In consolidated financial statements, paragraphs 3.2.2–3.2.9, B3.1.1, B3.1.2 and B3.2.1–B3.2.17 are applied
at a consolidated level. Hence, an entity first consolidates all subsidiaries in accordance with SLFRS 10 and
then applies those paragraphs to the resulting group.
3.2.2 Before evaluating whether, and to what extent, derecognition is appropriate under paragraphs 3.2.3–
3.2.9, an entity determines whether those paragraphs should be applied to a part of a financial asset (or a
part of a group of similar financial assets) or a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets) in
its entirety, as follows.
(a) Paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of similar
financial assets) if, and only if, the part being considered for derecognition meets one of the following
three conditions.
(i) The part comprises only specifically identified cash flows from a financial asset (or a group of
similar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into an interest rate strip whereby
the counterparty obtains the right to the interest cash flows, but not the principal cash flows
from a debt instrument, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to the interest cash flows.
(ii) The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of the cash flows from a financial
asset (or a group of similar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into an
arrangement whereby the counterparty obtains the rights to a 90 per cent share of all cash
flows of a debt instrument, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to 90 per cent of those cash flows.
If there is more than one counterparty, each counterparty is not required to have a proportionate
share of the cash flows provided that the transferring entity has a fully proportionate share.
(iii) The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of specifically identified cash
flows from a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets). For example, when an entity
enters into an arrangement whereby the counterparty obtains the rights to a 90 per cent share
of interest cash flows from a financial asset, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to 90 per cent
of those interest cash flows. If there is more than one counterparty, eachcounterparty is not

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
6A
required to have a proportionate share of the specifically identified cash flows provided that the
transferring entity has a fully proportionate share.
(b) In all other cases, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset in its entirety (or to the
group of similar financial assets in their entirety). For example, when an entity transfers(i) the
rights to the first or the last 90 per cent of cash collections from a financial asset (or a group of
financial assets), or (ii) the rights to 90 per cent of the cash flows from a group of receivables, but
provides a guarantee to compensate the buyer for any credit losses up to 8 per cent of the principal
amount of the receivables, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset (or a group of
similar financial assets) in its entirety.
In paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.12, the term ‘financial asset’ refers to either a part of a financial asset (or a part of
a group of similar financial assets) as identified in (a) above or, otherwise, a financial asset (or a group of
similar financial assets) in its entirety.
3.2.3 An entity shall derecognise a financial asset when, and only when:
(a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or
(b) it transfers the financial asset as set out in paragraphs 3.2.4 and 3.2.5 and the transfer qualifies for
derecognition in accordance with paragraph 3.2.6.
(See paragraph 3.1.2 for regular way sales of financial assets.)
3.2.4 An entity transfers a financial asset if, and only if, it either:
(a) transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, or
(b) retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual
obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients in an arrangement that meets the conditions
in paragraph 3.2.5.
3.2.5 When an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a financial asset (the ‘original
asset’), but assumes a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to one or more entities (the ‘eventual
recipients’), the entity treats the transaction as a transfer of a financial asset if, and only if, all of the
following three conditions are met.
(a) The entity has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects equivalent
amounts from the original asset. Short-term advances by the entity with the right of full recovery of
the amount lent plus accrued interest at market rates do not violate this condition.
(b) The entity is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original
asset other than as security to the eventual recipients for the obligation to pay them cash flows.
(c) The entity has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients
without material delay. In addition, the entity is not entitled to reinvest such cash flows, except for
investments in cash or cash equivalents (as defined in LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows) during the
short settlement period from the collection date to the date of required remittance to the eventual
recipients, and interest earned on such investments is passed to the eventual recipients.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
7A
3.2.6 When an entity transfers a financial asset (see paragraph 3.2.4), it shall evaluate the extent to which it
retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In this case:
(a) if the entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the
entity shall derecognise the financial asset and recognise separately as assets or liabilities any
rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
(b) if the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the
entity shall continue to recognise the financial asset.
(c) if the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the
financial asset, the entity shall determine whether it has retained control of the financial asset.In
this case:
(i) if the entity has not retained control, it shall derecognize the financial asset and recognise
separately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
(ii) if the entity has retained control, it shall continue to recognise the financial asset to the extent
of its continuing involvement in the financial asset (see paragraph 3.2.16).
3.2.7The transfer of risks and rewards (see paragraph 3.2.6) is evaluated by comparing the entity’s exposure,
before and after the transfer, with the variability in the amounts and timing of the net cash flows of the
transferred asset. An entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial
asset if its exposure to the variability in the present value of the future net cash flows from the financial
asset does not change significantly as a result of the transfer (eg because the entity has sold a financial
asset subject to an agreement to buy it back at a fixed price or the sale price plus a lender’s return). An entity
has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset if its exposure to
such variability is no longer significant in relation to the total variability in the present value of the future
net cash flows associated with the financial asset (eg because the entity has sold a financial asset subject
only to an option to buy it back at its fair value at the time of repurchase or has transferred a fully
proportionate share of the cash flows from a larger financial asset in an arrangement, such as a loan sub-
participation, that meets the conditions in paragraph 3.2.5).
3.2.8Often it will be obvious whether the entity has transferred or retained substantially all risks and rewards of
ownership and there will be no need to perform any computations. In other cases, it will be necessary to
compute and compare the entity’s exposure to the variability in the present value of the future net cash
flows before and after the transfer. The computation and comparison are made using as the discount rate
an appropriate current market interest rate. All reasonably possible variability in net cash flows is considered,
with greater weight being given to those outcomes that are more likely to occur.
3.2.9Whether the entity has retained control (see paragraph 3.2.6(c)) of the transferred asset depends on the
transferee’s ability to sell the asset. If the transferee has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety
to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without needing to impose
additional restrictions on the transfer, the entity has not retained control. In all other cases, the entity has
retained control.
Transfers that Qualify for Derecognition
3.2.10 If an entity transfers a financial asset in a transfer that qualifies for derecognition in its entirety and
retains the right to service the financial asset for a fee, it shall recognise either a servicing asset or a
servicing liability for that servicing contract. If the fee to be received is not expected to compensate the
entity adequately for performing the servicing, a servicing liability for the servicing obligation shall be
recognised at its fair value. If the fee to be received is expected to be more than adequate compensation for

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
8A
the servicing, a servicing asset shall be recognised for the servicing right at an amount determined on
the basis of an allocation of the carrying amount of the larger financial asset in accordance with paragraph
3.2.13.
3.2.11 If, as a result of a transfer, a financial asset is derecognised in its entirety but the transfer results in the
entity obtaining a new financial asset or assuming a new financial liability, or a servicing liability, the
entity shall recognise the new financial asset, financial liability or servicing liability at fair value.
3.2.12 On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between:
(a) the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) and
(b) the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed)
shall be recognised in profit or loss.
3.2.13 If the transferred asset is part of a larger financial asset (eg when an entity transfers interest cash flows
that are part of a debt instrument, see paragraph 3.2.2(a)) and the part transferred qualifies for
derecognition in its entirety, the previous carrying amount of the larger financial asset shall be allocated
between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised, on the basis of the
relative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer. For this purpose, a retained servicing asset
shall be treated as a part that continues to be recognised.
The difference between:
(a) the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) allocated to the part derecognised and
(b) the consideration received for the part derecognised (including any new asset obtained less any new
liability assumed)
shall be recognised in profit or loss.
3.2.14When an entity allocates the previous carrying amount of a larger financial asset between the part that
continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised, the fair value of the part that continues to be
recognised needs to be measured. When the entity has a history of selling parts similar to the part that
continues to be recognised or other market transactions exist for such parts, recent prices of actual
transactions provide the best estimate of its fair value. When there are no price quotes or recent market
transactions to support the fair value of the part that continues to be recognised, the best estimate of the
fair value is the difference between the fair value of the larger financial asset as a whole and the consideration
received from the transferee for the part that is derecognised.
Transfers That do not Qualify for Derecognition
3.2.15 If a transfer does not result in derecognition because the entity has retained substantially all the risks
and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the entity shall continue to recognise the transferred
asset in its entirety and shall recognise a financial liability for the consideration received. In subsequent
periods, the entity shall recognise any income on the transferred asset and any expense incurred on the
financial liability.
Continuing Involvement in Transferred Assets
3.2.16 If an entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a
transferred asset, and retains control of the transferred asset, the entity continues to recognise the

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
9A
transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. The extent of the entity’scontinuing
involvement in the transferred asset is the extent to which it is exposed to changes in the value of the
transferred asset. For example:
(a) When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of guaranteeing the transferred asset,
the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is the lower of (i) the amount of the asset and (ii)
the maximum amount of the consideration received that the entity could be required to repay (‘the
guarantee amount’).
(b) When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of a written or purchased option (or both)
on the transferred asset, the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is the amount of the
transferred asset that the entity may repurchase. However, in the case of a written put option on an
asset that is measured at fair value, the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is limited to
the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option exercise price (see paragraph
B3.2.13).
(c) When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of a cash-settled option or similar provision
on the transferred asset, the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is measured in the same
way as that which results from non-cash settled options as set out in (b) above.
3.2.17 When an entity continues to recognise an asset to the extent of its continuing involvement, the entity also
recognises an associated liability. Despite the other measurement requirements in this Standard, the
transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations
that the entity has retained. The associated liability is measured in such a way that the net carrying
amount of the transferred asset and the associated liability is:
(a) the amortised cost of the rights and obligations retained by the entity, if the transferred asset is
measured at amortised cost, or
(b) equal to the fair value of the rights and obligations retained by the entity when measured on a stand-
alone basis, if the transferred asset is measured at fair value.
3.2.18 The entity shall continue to recognise any income arising on the transferred asset to the extent of its
continuing involvement and shall recognise any expense incurred on the associated liability.
3.2.19 For the purpose of subsequent measurement, recognised changes in the fair value of the transferred
asset and the associated liability are accounted for consistently with each other in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.1, and shall not be offset.
3.2.20 If an entity’s continuing involvement is in only a part of a financial asset (eg when an entity retains an
option to repurchase part of a transferred asset, or retains a residual interest that does not result in the
retention of substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the entity retains control), the entity
allocates the previous carrying amount of the financial asset between the part it continues to recognise
under continuing involvement, and the part it no longer recognises on the basis of the relative fair values
of those parts on the date of the transfer. For this purpose, the requirements of paragraph 3.2.14 apply.
The difference between:
(a) the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) allocated to the part that is no longer
recognised and
(b) the consideration received for the part no longer recognised
shall be recognised in profit or loss.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
10A
3.2.21 If the transferred asset is measured at amortised cost, the option in this Standard to designate a financial
liability as at fair value through profit or loss is not applicable to the associated liability.
All Transfers
3.2.22 If a transferred asset continues to be recognised, the asset and the associated liability shall not be offset.
Similarly, the entity shall not offset any income arising from the transferred asset with any expense
incurred on the associated liability (see paragraph 42 of LKAS 32).
3.2.23 If a transferor provides non-cash collateral (such as debt or equity instruments) to the transferee, the
accounting for the collateral by the transferor and the transferee depends on whether the transferee has
the right to sell or repledge the collateral and on whether the transferor has defaulted. The transferor
and transferee shall account for the collateral as follows:
(a) If the transferee has the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge the collateral, then the
transferor shall reclassify that asset in its statement of financial position (eg as a loaned asset,
pledged equity instruments or repurchase receivable) separately from other assets.
(b) If the transferee sells collateral pledged to it, it shall recognise the proceeds from the sale and a
liability measured at fair value for its obligation to return the collateral.
(c) If the transferor defaults under the terms of the contract and is no longer entitled to redeem the
collateral, it shall derecognise the collateral, and the transferee shall recognise the collateral as
its asset initially measured at fair value or, if it has already sold the collateral, derecognise its
obligation to return the collateral.
(d) Except as provided in (c), the transferor shall continue to carry the collateral as its asset, and the
transferee shall not recognise the collateral as an asset.
3.3 Derecognition of Financial Liabilities
3.3.1 An entity shall remove a financial liability (or a part of a financial liability) from its statement of financial
position when, and only when, it is extinguished—ie when the obligation specified in the contract is
discharged or cancelled or expires.
3.3.2 An exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt instruments with substantially different
terms shall be accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition
of a new financial liability. Similarly, a substantial modification of the terms of an existing financial
liability or a part of it (whether or not attributable to the financial difficulty of the debtor) shall be
accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial
liability.
3.3.3 The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability)
extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets
transferred or liabilities assumed, shall be recognised in profit or loss.
3.3.4 If an entity repurchases a part of a financial liability, the entity shall allocate the previous carrying amount
of the financial liability between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised
based on the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the repurchase. The difference between (a)
the carrying amount allocated to the part derecognised and (b) the consideration paid, including any non-
cash assets transferred or liabilitie assumed, for the part derecognised shall be recognised in profit or loss.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
11A
Chapter 4 Classification
4.1 Classification of Financial aAssets
4.1.1 Unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies, an entity shall classify financial assets as subsequently measured at
amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the
basis of both:
(a) the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets and
(b) the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
4.1.2 A financial asset shall be measured at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
(a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in
order to collect contractual cash flows and
(b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Paragraphs B4.1.1–B4.1.26 provide guidance on how to apply these conditions.
4.1.2A A financial asset shall be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if both of the
following conditions are met:
(a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting
contractual cash flows and selling financial assets and
(b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Paragraphs B4.1.1–B4.1.26 provide guidance on how to apply these conditions.
4.1.3 For the purpose of applying paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b):
(a) principal is the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition. Paragraph B4.1.7B provides
additional guidance on the meaning of principal.
(b) interest consists of consideration for the time value of money, for the credit risk associated with the
principal amount outstanding during a particular period of time and for other basic lending risks
and costs, as well as a profit margin. Paragraphs B4.1.7A and B4.1.9A–B4.1.9E provide additional
guidance on the meaning of interest, including the meaning of the time value of money.
4.1.4 A financial asset shall be measured at fair value through profit or loss unless it is measured at amortised
cost in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2 or at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.2A. However an entity may make an irrevocable election at initial recognition for
particular investments in equity instruments that would otherwise be measured at fair value through
profit or loss to present subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive income (see paragraphs
5.7.5–5.7.6).

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
12A
Option to Designate a Financial Asset at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
4.1.5 Despite paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.4, an entity may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial
asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a
measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting mismatch’) that
would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them
on different bases (see paragraphs B4.1.29–B4.1.32).
4.2 Classification of financial liabilities
4.2.1 An entity shall classify all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for:
(a) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that
are liabilities, shall be subsequently measured at fair value.
(b) financial liabilities that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition
or when the continuing involvement approach applies. Paragraphs 3.2.15 and 3.2.17 apply to the
measurement of such financial liabilities.
(c) financial guarantee contracts. After initial recognition, an issuer of such a contract shall (unless
paragraph 4.2.1(a) or (b) applies)subsequently measure it at the higher of:
(i) the amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance with Section 5.5 and
(ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 5.1.1) less, when appropriate, the cumulative
amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15.
(d) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate. An issuer of such a commitment
shall (unless paragraph 4.2.1(a) applies) subsequently measure it at the higher of:
(i) the amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance with Section 5.5 and
(ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 5.1.1) less, when appropriate, the cumulative
amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15.
(e) contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination to which SLFRS 3
applies. Such contingent consideration shall subsequently be measured at fair value with changes
recognised in profit or loss.
Option to Designate a Financial Liability at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
4.2.2 An entity may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial liability as measured at fair value
through profit or loss when permitted by paragraph 4.3.5, or when doing so results in more relevant
information, because either:
(a) it eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes
referred to as ‘an accounting mismatch’) that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or
liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases (see paragraphs B4.1.29–
B4.1.32); or
(b) a group of financial liabilities or financial assets and financial liabilities is managed and its
performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management
or investment strategy, and information about the group is provided internally on that basis to the
entity’s key management personnel (as defined in LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures), for example,
the entity’s board of directors and chief executive officer (see paragraphs B4.1.33–B4.1.36).

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
13A
4.3 Embedded Derivatives
4.3.1 An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid contract that also includes a non-derivative host—
with the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a way similar to a stand-
alone derivative. An embedded derivative causes some or all of the cash flows that otherwise would be
required by the contract to be modified according to a specified interest rate, financial instrument price,
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index, or other
variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the
contract. A derivative that is attached to a financial instrument but is contractually transferable
independently of that instrument, or has a different counterparty, is not an embedded derivative, but a
separate financial instrument.
Hybrid Contracts with Financial Asset Hosts
4.3.2 If a hybrid contract contains a host that is an asset within the scope of this Standard, an entity shall apply
the requirements in paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.5 to the entire hybrid contract.
Other Hybrid Contracts
4.3.3 If a hybrid contract contains a host that is not an asset within the scope of this Standard, an embedded
derivative shall be separated from the host and accounted for as a derivative under this Standard if, and
only if:
(a) the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the
economic characteristics and risks of the host (see paragraphs B4.3.5 and B4.3.8);
(b) a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of
a derivative; and
(c) the hybrid contract is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or
loss (ie a derivative that is embedded in a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss is not
separated).
4.3.4 If an embedded derivative is separated, the host contract shall be accounted for in accordance with the
appropriate Standards. This Standard does not address whether an embedded derivative shall be presented
separately in the statement of financial position.
4.3.5 Despite paragraphs 4.3.3 and 4.3.4, if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives and the host
is not an asset within the scope of this Standard, an entity may designate the entire hybrid contract as at
fair value through profit or loss unless:
(a) the embedded derivative(s) do(es) not significantly modify the cash flows that otherwise would be
required by the contract; or
(b) it is clear with little or no analysis when a similar hybrid instrument is first considered that
separation of the embedded derivative(s) is prohibited, such as a prepayment option embedded in a
loan that permits the holder to prepay the loan for approximately its amortised cost.
4.3.6 If an entity is required by this Standard to separate an embedded derivative from its host, but is unable to
measure the embed dedderivative separately either at acquisition or at the end of a subsequent financial
reporting period, it shall designate the entire hybrid contract as at fair value through profit or loss.
4.3.7 If an entity is unable to measure reliably the fair value of an embedded derivative on the basis of its terms
and conditions, the fair value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value of the

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
14A
hybrid contract and the fair value of the host. If the entity is unable to measure the fair value of the
embedded derivative using this method, paragraph 4.3.6 applies and the hybrid contract is designated as
at fair value through profit or loss.
4.4 Reclassification
4.4.1 When, and only when, an entity changes its business model for managing financial assets it shall
reclassify all affected financial assets in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.4. See paragraphs 5.6.1–
5.6.7, B4.4.1–B4.4.3 and B5.6.1–B5.6.2 for additional guidance on reclassifying financial assets.
4.4.2 An entity shall not reclassify any financial liability.
4.4.3The following changes in circumstances are not reclassifications for the purposes of paragraphs 4.4.1–
4.4.2:
(a) an item that was previously a designated and effective hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge or net
investment hedge no longer qualifies as such;
(b) an item becomes a designated and effective hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge or net investment
hedge; and
(c) changes in measurement in accordance with Section 6.7.
Chapter 5 Measurement
5.1 Initial Measurement
5.1.1 Except for trade receivables within the scope of paragraph 5.1.3, at initial recognition, an entity shall
measure a financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial
asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
5.1.1 A However, if the fair value of the financial asset or financial liability at initial recognition differs from
the transaction price, an entity shall apply paragraph B5.1.2A.
5.1.2When an entity uses settlement date accounting for an asset that is subsequently measured at amortised
cost, the asset is recognised initially at its fair value on the trade date (see paragraphs B3.1.3–B3.1.6).
5.1.3Despite the requirement in paragraph 5.1.1, at initial recognition, an entity shall measure trade receivables
that do not have a significant financing component (determined in accordance with SLFRS 15) at their
transaction price (as defined in SLFRS 15).
5.2 Subsequent Measurement of Financial Assets
5.2.1 After initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial asset in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.1–
4.1.5 at:
(a) amortised cost;
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income; or
(c) fair value through profit or loss.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
15A
5.2.2 An entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 to financial assets that are measured
at amortised cost in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2 and to financial assets that are measured at fair
value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A.
5.2.3 An entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 (and, if applicable,
paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate
risk to a financial asset that is designated as a hedged item.
1
5.3 Subsequent Measurement of Financial Liabilities
5.3.1 After initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial liability in accordance with paragraphs
4.2.1–4.2.2.
5.3.2 An entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 (and, if applicable,
paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate
risk) to a financial liability that is designated as a hedged item.
5.4 Amortised cost measurement
Financial Assets
Effective Interest Method
5.4.1 Interest revenue shall be calculated by using the effective interest method (see Appendix A and paragraphs
B5.4.1–B5.4.7). This shall be calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying
amount of a financial asset except for:
(a) purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets . For those financial assets, the entity
shall apply the credit-adjusted effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset
from initial recognition.
(b) financial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets but
subsequently have become credit-impaired financial assets. For those financial assets, the entity
shall apply the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset in subsequent
reporting periods.
5.4.2 An entity that, in a reporting period, calculates interest revenue by applying the effective interest method
to the amortised cost of a financial asset in accordance with paragraph 5.4.1(b), shall, in subsequent
reporting periods, calculate the interest revenue by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying
amount if the credit risk on the financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit-
impaired and the improvement can be related objectively to an event occurring after the requirements in
paragraph 5.4.1(b) were applied (such as an improvement in the borrower’s credit rating).
Modification of Contractual Cash Flows
5.4.3When the contractual cash flows of a financial asset are renegotiated or otherwise modified and the
renegotiation or modification does not result in the derecognition of that financial asset in accordance with
this Standard, an entity shall recalculate the gross carrying amount of the financial asset and shall recognise
a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The gross carrying amount of the financial asset shall be
1 In accordance with paragraph 7.2.21, an entity may choose as its accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge accounting
requirements in LKAS 39 instead of the requirements in Chapter 6 of this Standard. If an entity has made this election, the ref erences
in this Standard to particular hedge accounting requirements in Chapter 6 are not relevant, Instead the entity applies the rele vant hedge
accounting requriements in LKAS 39.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
16A
recalculated as the present value of the renegotiated or modified contractual cash flows that are discounted
at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased
or originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate calculated
in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. Any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the modified
financial asset and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified financial asset.
Write-off
5.4.4 An entity shall directly reduce the gross carrying amount of a financial asset when the entity has no
reasonable expectations of recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof. A write-off
constitutes a derecognition event (see paragraph B3.2.16(r)).
5.5 Impairment
Recognition of Expected Credit Losses
General Approach
5.5.1 An entity shall recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses on a financial asset that is measured
in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.2 or 4.1.2A, a lease receivable, a contract asset or a loan commitment
and a financial guarantee contract to which the impairment requirements apply in accordance with
paragraphs 2.1(g), 4.2.1(c) or 4.2.1(d).
5.5.2 An entity shall apply the impairment requirements for the recognition and measurement of a loss allowance
for financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 4.1.2A. However, the loss allowance shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and
shall not reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset in the statement of financial position.
5.5.3 Subject to paragraphs 5.5.13–5.5.16, at each reporting date, an entity shall measurethe loss allowance
for a financial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on
that financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition.
5.5.4The objective of the impairment requirements is to recognise lifetime expected credit losses for all financial
instruments for which there have been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition —
whether assessed on an individual or collective basis — considering all reasonable and supportable
information, including that which is forward-looking.
5.5.5 Subject to paragraphs 5.5.13–5.5.16, if, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial instrument
has not increased significantly since initial recognition, an entity shall measure the loss allowance for
that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.
5.5.6For loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts, the date that the entity becomes a party to the
irrevocable commitment shall be considered to be the date of initial recognition for the purposes of applying
the impairment requirements.
5.5.7 If an entity has measured the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to lifetime
expected credit losses in the previous reporting period, but determines at the current reporting date that
paragraph 5.5.3 is no longer met, the entity shall measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-
month expected credit losses at the current reporting date.
5.5.8 An entity shall recognise in profit or loss, as an impairment gain or loss, the amount of expected credit
losses (or reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the reporting date to the amount that is
required to be recognised in accordance with this Standard.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
17A
Determining Significant Increases in Credit Risk
5.5.9 At each reporting date, an entity shall assess whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased
significantly since initial recognition. When making the assessment, an entity shall use the change in the
risk of a default occurring over the expected life of the financial instrument instead of the change in the
amount of expected credit losses. To make that assessment, an entity shall compare the risk of a default
occurring on the financial instrument as at the reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on the
financial instrument as at the date of initial recognition and consider reasonable and supportable information,
that is available without undue cost or effort, that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk since
initial recognition.
5.5.10 An entity may assume that the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since
initial recognition if the financial instrument is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date (see
paragraphs B5.5.22 B5.5.24).
5.5.11 If reasonable and supportable forward-looking information is available without undue cost or effort, an
entity cannot rely solely on past due information when determining whether credit risk has increased
significantly since initial recognition. However, when information that is more forward-looking than past
due status (either on an individual or a collective basis) is not available without undue cost or effort, an
entity may use past due information to determine whether there have been significant increases in credit
risk since initial recognition. Regardless of the way in which an entity assesses significant increases in
credit risk, there is a rebuttable presumption that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly
since initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. An entity can rebut
this presumption if the entity has reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue
cost or effort, that demonstrates that the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition
even though the contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. When an entity determines that
there have been significant increases in credit risk before contractual payments are more than 30 days past
due, the rebuttable presumption does not apply.
Modified Financial Assets
5.5.12 If the contractual cash flows on a financial asset have been renegotiated or modified and the financial asset
was not derecognised, an entity shall assess whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk
of the financial instrument in accordance with paragraph 5.5.3 by comparing:
(a) the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date (based on the modified contractual terms); and
(b) the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition (based on the original, unmodified contractual
terms).
Purchased or Originated Credit-impaired Financial Assets
5.5.13 Despite paragraphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5, at the reporting date, an entity shall only recognise the cumulative
changes in lifetime expected credit losses since initial recognition as a loss allowance for purchased or
originated credit-impaired financial assets.
5.5.14 At each reporting date, an entity shall recognise in profit or loss the amount of the change in lifetime
expected credit losses as an impairment gain or loss. An entity shall recognise favourable changes in
lifetime expected credit losses as an impairment gain, even if the lifetime expected credit losses are less than
the amount of expected credit losses that were included in the estimated cash flows on initial recognition.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
18A
Simplified Approach for Trade Receivables, Contractassets and Lease Receivables
5.5.15 Despite paragraphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5, an entity shall always measure the loss allowance at an amount equal
to lifetime expected credit losses for:
(a) trade receivables or contract assets that result from transactions that are within the scope of
SLFRS 15, and that:
(i) do not contain a significant financing component (or when the entity applies the practical
expedient for contracts that are one year or less) in accordance with SLFRS 15; or
(ii) contain a significant financing component in accordance withSLFRS 15, if the entity chooses
as its accounting policy to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit losses. That accounting policy shall be applied to all such trade receivables or contract
assets but may be applied separately to trade receivables and contract assets.
(b) lease receivables that result from transactions that are within the scope of LKAS 17, if the entity
chooses as its accounting policy to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime
expected credit losses. That accounting policy shall be applied to all lease receivables but may be
applied separately to finance and operating lease receivables.
5.5.16 An entity may select its accounting policy for trade receivables, lease receivables and contract assets
independently of each other.
Measurement of Expected Credit Losses
5.5.17 An entity shall measure expected credit losses of a financial instrument in a way that reflects:
(a) An unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible
outcomes;
(b) The time value of money; and
(c) Reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting
date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
5.5.18When measuring expected credit losses, an entity need not necessarily identify every possible scenario.
However, it shall consider the risk or probability that a credit loss occurs by reflecting the possibility that
a credit loss occurs and the possibility that no credit loss occurs, even if the possibility of a credit loss
occurring is very low.
5.5.19The maximum period to consider when measuring expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period
(including extension options) over which the entity is exposed to credit risk and not a longer period, even
if that longer period is consistent with business practice.
5.5.20However, some financial instruments include both a loan and an undrawn commitment component and the
entity’s contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not limit the
entity’s exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. For such financial instruments, and only
those financial instruments, the entity shall measure expected credit losses over the period that the entity
is exposed to credit risk and expected credit losses would not be mitigated by credit risk management
actions, even if that period extends beyond the maximum contractual period.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
19A
5.6 Reclassification of Financial Assets
5.6.1 If an entity reclassifies financial assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1, it shall apply the
reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date. The entity shall not restate any previously
recognised gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest. Paragraphs 5.6.2–5.6.7 set
out the requirements for reclassifications.
5.6.2 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair
value through profit or loss measurement category, its fair value is measured at the reclassification date.
Any gain or loss arising from a difference between the previous amortised cost of the financial asset and
fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
5.6.3 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement category
and into the amortised cost measurement category, its fair value at the reclassification date becomes its
new gross carrying amount. (See paragraph B5.6.2 for guidance on determining an effective interest
rate and a loss allowance at the reclassification date.)
5.6.4  If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair
value through other comprehensive income measurement category, its fair value is measured at the
reclassification date. Any gain or loss arising from a difference between the previous amortised cost of
the financial asset and fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income. The effective interest
rate and the measurement of expected credit losses are not adjusted as a result of the reclassification.
(See paragraph B5.6.1.)
5.6.5 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through other comprehensive income
measurement category and into the amortised cost measurement category, the financial asset is
reclassified at its fair value at the reclassification date. However, the cumulative gain or loss previously
recognised in other comprehensive income is removed from equity and adjusted against the fair value of
the financial asset at the reclassification date. As a result, the financial asset is measured at the
reclassification date as if it had always been measured at amortised cost. This adjustment affects other
comprehensive income but does not affect profit or loss and therefore is not a reclassification adjustment
(see LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements). The effective interest rate and the measurement of
expected credit losses are not adjusted as a result of the reclassification. (See paragraph B5.6.1.)
5.6.6 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement category
and into the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category, the financial asset
continues to be measured at fair value. (See paragraph B5.6.2 for guidance on determining an effective
interest rate and a loss allowance at the reclassification date.)
5.6.7 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through other comprehensive income
measurement category and into the fair value through profit or loss measurement category, the financial
asset continues to be measured at fair value. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other
comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see
LKAS 1) at the reclassification date.
5.7 Gains and Losses
5.7.1 A gain or loss on a financial asset or financial liability that is measured at fair value shall be recognised
in profit or loss unless:
(a) it is part of a hedging relationship (see paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable, paragraphs 89–
94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk);

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
20A
(b) it is an investment in an equity instrument and the entity has elected to present gains and losses on
that investment in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5;
(c) it is a financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss and the entity is required
to present the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 5.7.7; or
(d) it is a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.2A and the entity is required to recognise some changes in fair value in other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.10.
5.7.1 ADividends are recognised in profit or loss only when:
(a) the entity’s right to receive payment of the dividend is established;
(b) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the entity; and
(c) the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.
5.7.2 A gain or loss on a financial asset that is measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging
relationship (see paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable, paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair
value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk) shall be recognised in profit or loss
when the financial asset is derecognised, reclassified in accordance with paragraph 5.6.2, through the
amortisation process or in order to recognise impairment gains or losses. An entity shall apply paragraphs
5.6.2 and 5.6.4 if it reclassifies financial assets out of the amortised cost measurement category. A gain
or loss on a financial liability that is measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship
(see paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable, paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge
accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk) shall be recognised in profit or loss when the
financial liability is derecognised and through the amortisation process. (See paragraph B5.7.2 for
guidance on foreign exchange gains or losses.)
5.7.3 A gain or loss on financial assets or financial liabilities that are hedged items in a hedging relationship
shall be recognised in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable,paragraphs 89–94 of
LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk.
5.7.4 If an entity recognises financial assets using settlement date accounting(see paragraphs 3.1.2, B3.1.3
and B3.1.6), any change in the fair value of the asset to be received during the period between the trade
date and the settlement date is not recognised for assets measured at amortised cost. For assets measured
at fair value, however, the change in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss or in other comprehensive
income, as appropriate in accordance with paragraph 5.7.1. The trade date shall be considered the date of
initial recognition for the purposes of applying the impairment requirements.
Investments in Equity Instruments
5.7.5 At initial recognition, an entity may make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive
income subsequent changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument within the scope of
this Standard that is neither held for trading nor contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in
a business combination to which SLFRS 3 applies. (See paragraph B5.7.3 for guidance on foreign
exchange gains or losses.)
5.7.6 If an entity makes the election in paragraph 5.7.5, it shall recognise in profit or loss dividends from that
investment in accordance with paragraph 5.7.1A.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
21A
Liabilities Designated as at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss
5.7.7 An entity shall present a gain or loss on a financial liability that is designated as at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 or paragraph 4.3.5 as follows:
(a) The amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the
credit risk of that liability shall be presented in other comprehensive income (see paragraphs
B5.7.13–B5.7.20), and
(b) the remaining amount of change in the fair value of the liability shall be presented in profit or loss
unless the treatment of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk described in (a) would
create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss (in which case paragraph 5.7.8 applies).
Paragraphs B5.7.5–B5.7.7 and B5.7.10–B5.7.12 provide guidance on determining whether an
accounting mismatch would be created or enlarged.
5.7.8 If the requirements in paragraph 5.7.7 would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss,
an entity shall present all gains or losses on that liability (including the effects of changes in the credit
risk of that liability) in profit or loss.
5.7.9Despite the requirements in paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8, an entity shall present in profit or loss all gains and
losses on loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts that are designated as at fair value through
profit or loss.
Assets Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income
5.7.10 A gain or loss on a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A shall be recognised in other comprehensive income, except for
impairment gains or losses (see Section 5.5) and foreign exchange gains and losses (see paragraphs
B5.7.2–B5.7.2A), until the financial asset is derecognised or reclassified. When the financial asset is
derecognised the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is
reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1). If the financial
asset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category,
the entity shall account for the cumulative gain or loss that was previously recognised in other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraphs 5.6.5 and 5.6.7. Interest calculated using the
effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
5.7.11 As described in paragraph 5.7.10, if a financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, the amounts that are recognised in profit or loss are the
same as the amounts that would have been recognised in profit or loss if the financial asset had been
measured at amortised cost.
Chapter 6 Hedge Accounting
6.1 Objective and Scope of Hedge Accounting
6.1.1The objective of hedge accounting is to represent, in the financial statements, the effect of an entity’s risk
management activities that use financial instruments to manage exposures arising from particular risks that
could affect profit or loss (or other comprehensive income, in the case of investments in equity instruments
for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance
with paragraph 5.7.5). This approach aims to convey the context of hedging instruments for which hedge
accounting is applied in order to allow insight into their purpose and effect.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
22A
6.1.2 An entity may choose to designate a hedging relationship between a hedging instrument and a hedged
item in accordance with paragraphs 6.2.1–6.3.7 and B6.2.1–B6.3.25. For hedging relationships that meet the
qualifying criteria, an entity shall account for the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the hedged
item in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.1–6.5.14 and B6.5.1–B6.5.28. When the hedged item is a group of
items, an entity shall comply with the additional requirements in paragraphs 6.6.1–6.6.6 and B6.6.1–B6.6.16.
6.1.3For a fair value hedge of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial assets or financial liabilities
(and only for such a hedge), an entity may apply the hedge accounting requirements in LKAS 39 instead
of those in this Standard. In that case, the entity must also apply the specific requirements for the fair value
hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk and designate as the hedged item a portion that
is a currency amount (see paragraphs 81A, 89A and AG114–AG132 of LKAS 39).
6.2 Hedging Instruments
Qualifying Instruments
6.2.1 A derivative measured at fair value through profit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument,
except for some written options (see paragraph B6.2.4).
6.2.2 A non-derivative financial asset or a non-derivative financial liability measured at fair value through
profit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument unless it is a financial liability designated as at
fair value through profit or loss for which the amount of its change in fair value that is attributable to
changes in the credit risk of that liability is presented in other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.7. For a hedge of foreign currency risk, the foreign currency risk component of a non-
derivative financial asset or a non-derivative financial liability may be designated as a hedging instrument
provided that it is not an investment in an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present
changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5.
6.2.3 For hedge accounting purposes, only contracts with a party external to the reporting entity (ie external to
the group or individual entity that is being reported on) can be designated as hedging instruments.
Designation of Hedging Instruments
6.2.4 A qualifying instrument must be designated in its entirety as a hedging instrument. The only exceptions
permitted are:
(a) separating the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract and designating as the hedging
instrument only the change in intrinsic value of an option and not the change in its time value (see
paragraphs 6.5.15 and B6.5.29–B6.5.33);
(b) separating the forward element and the spot element of a forward contract and designating as the
hedging instrument only the change in the value of the spot element of a forward contract and not
the forward element; similarly, the foreign currency basis spread may be separated and excluded from
the designation of a financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraphs 6.5.16 and
B6.5.34–B6.5.39); and
(c) a proportion of the entire hedging instrument, such as 50 per cent of the nominal amount, may be
designated as the hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. However, a hedging instrument may
not be designated for a part of its change in fair value that results from only a portion of the time
period during which the hedging instrument remains outstanding.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
23A
6.2.5 An entity may view in combination, and jointly designate as the hedging instrument, any combination of
the following (including those circumstances in which the risk or risks arising from some hedging instruments
offset those arising from others):
(a) derivatives or a proportion of them; and
(b) non-derivatives or a proportion of them.
6.2.6However, a derivative instrument that combines a written option and a purchased option (for example, an
interest rate collar) does not qualify as a hedging instrument if it is, in effect, a net written option at the date
of designation (unless it qualifies in accordance with paragraph B6.2.4). Similarly, two or more instruments
(or proportions of them) may be jointly designated as the hedging instrument only if, in combination, they
are not, in effect, a net written option at the date of designation (unless it qualifies in accordance with
paragraph B6.2.4).
6.3 Hedged Items
Qualifying Items
6.3.1 A hedged item can be a recognised asset or liability, an unrecognised firm commitment , a forecast
transaction or a net investment in a foreign operation. The hedged item can be:
(a) a single item; or
(b) a group of items (subject to paragraphs 6.6.1–6.6.6 and B6.6.1–B6.6.16).
A hedged item can also be a component of such an item or group of items(see paragraphs 6.3.7 and
B6.3.7–B6.3.25).
6.3.2 The hedged item must be reliably measurable.
6.3.3 If a hedged item is a forecast transaction (or a component thereof), that transaction must be highly
probable.
6.3.4 An aggregated exposure that is a combination of an exposure that could qualify as a hedged item in
accordance with paragraph 6.3.1 and a derivative may be designated as a hedged item (see paragraphs
B6.3.3–B6.3.4). This includes a forecast transaction of an aggregated exposure (ie uncommitted but
anticipated future transactions that would give rise to an exposure and a derivative) if that aggregated
exposure is highly probable and, once it has occurred and is therefore no longer forecast, is eligible as a
hedged item.
6.3.5 For hedge accounting purposes, only assets, liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecast
transactions with a party external to the reporting entity can be designated as hedged items. Hedge
accounting can be applied to transactions between entities in the same group only in the individual or
separate financial statements of those entities and not in the consolidated financial statements of the
group, except for the consolidated financial statements of an investment entity, as defined in SLFRS 10,
where transactions between an investment entity and its subsidiaries measured at fair value through
profit or loss will not be eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
6.3.6However, as an exception to paragraph 6.3.5, the foreign currency risk of an intragroup monetary item (for
example, a payable/receivable between two subsidiaries) may qualify as a hedged item in the consolidated
financial statements if it results in an exposure to foreign exchange rate gains or losses that are not fully
eliminated on consolidation in accordance with LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
24A
Rates. In accordance with LKAS 21, foreign exchange rate gains and losses on intragroup monetary items
are not fully eliminated on consolidation when the intragroup monetary item is transacted between two
group entities that have different functional currencies. In addition, the foreign currency risk of a highly
probable forecast intragroup transaction may qualify as a hedged item in consolidated financial statements
provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity
entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
Designation of Hedged Items
6.3.7 An entity may designate an item in its entirety or a component of an item as the hedged item in a hedging
relationship. An entire item comprises all changes in the cash flows or fair value of an item. A component
comprises less than the entire fair value change or cash flow variability of an item. In that case, an entity
may designate only the following types of components (including combinations) as hedged items:
(a) only changes in the cash flows or fair value of an item attributable to a specific risk or risks (risk
component), provided that, based on an assessment within the context of the particular market
structure, the risk component is separately identifiable and reliably measurable (see paragraphs
B6.3.8–B6.3.15). Risk components include a designation of only changes in the cash flows or the fair
value of a hedged item above or below a specified price or other variable (a one-sided risk).
(b) one or more selected contractual cash flows.
(c) components of a nominal amount, ie a specified part of the amount of an item (see paragraphs
B6.3.16–B6.3.20).
6.4 Qualifying Criteria for Hedge Accounting
6.4.1 A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting only if all of the following criteria are met:
(a) the hedging relationship consists only of eligible hedging instruments and eligible hedged items.
(b) at the inception of the hedging relationship there is formal designation and documentation of the
hedging relationship and the entity’s risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the
hedge. That documentation shall include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item,
the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess whether the hedging relationship
meets the hedge effectiveness requirements (including its analysis of the sources of hedge
ineffectiveness and how it determines the hedge ratio).
(c) the hedging relationship meets all of the following hedge effectiveness requirements:
(i) there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument (see
paragraphs B6.4.4–B6.4.6);
(ii) the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic
relationship (see paragraphs B6.4.7–B6.4.8); and
(iii) the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the
hedged item that the entity actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the
entity actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. However, that designation shall not
reflect an imbalance between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that
would create hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognised or not) that could result
in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting (see
paragraphs B6.4.9–B6.4.11).

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
25A
6.5 Accounting for Qualifying Hedging Relationships
6.5.1 An entity applies hedge accounting to hedging relationships that meet the qualifying criteria in paragraph
6.4.1 (which include the entity’s decision to designate the hedging relationship).
6.5.2 There are three types of hedging relationships:
(a) fair value hedge: a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability
or an unrecognised firm commitment, or a component of any such item, that is attributable to a
particular risk and could affect profit or loss.
(b) cash flow hedge: a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular
risk associated with all, or a component of, a recognised asset or liability (such as all or some
future interest payments on variable-rate debt) or a highly probable forecast transaction, and could
affect profit or loss.
(c) hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation as defined in LKAS 21.
6.5.3 If the hedged item is an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value
in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5, the hedged exposure referred to in
paragraph 6.5.2(a) must be one that could affect other comprehensive income. In that case, and only in that
case, the recognised hedge ineffectiveness is presented in other comprehensive income.
6.5.4 A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment may be accounted for as a fair value hedge or a
cash flow hedge.
6.5.5 If a hedging relationship ceases to meet the hedge effectiveness requirement relating to the hedge ratio
(see paragraph 6.4.1(c)(iii)) but the risk management objective for that designated hedging relationship
remains the same, an entity shall adjust the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship so that it meets the
qualifying criteria again (this is referred to in this Standard as ‘rebalancing’—see paragraphs B6.5.7–
B6.5.21).
6.5.6 An entity shall discontinue hedge accounting prospectively only when the hedging relationship (or a part
of a hedging relationship) ceases to meet the qualifying criteria (after taking into account any rebalancing
of the hedging relationship, if applicable). This includes instances when the hedging instrument expires
or is sold, terminated or exercised. For this purpose, the replacement or rollover of a hedging instrument
into another hedging instrument is not an expiration or termination if such a replacement or rollover is
part of, and consistent with, the entity’s documented risk management objective. Additionally, for this
purpose there is not an expiration or termination of the hedging instrument if:
(a) as a consequence of laws or regulations or the introduction of laws or regulations, the parties to the
hedging instrument agree that one or more clearing counterparties replace their original
counterparty to become the new counterparty to each of the parties. For this purpose, a clearing
counterparty is a central counterparty (sometimes called a ‘clearing organisation’ or ‘clearing
agency’) or an entity or entities, for example, a clearing member of a clearing organisation or a
client of a clearing member of a clearing organisation, that are acting as a counterparty in order to
effect clearing by a central counterparty. However, when the parties to the hedging instrument
replace their original counterparties with different counterparties the requirement in this
subparagraph is met only if each of those parties effects clearing with the same central counterparty.
(b) other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to those that are necessary to effect
such a replacement of the counterparty. Such changes are limited to those that are consistent with

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
26A
the terms that would be expected if the hedging instrument were originally cleared with the clearing
counterparty. These changes include changes in the collateral requirements, rights to offset
receivables and payables balances, and charges levied.
Discontinuing hedge accounting can either affect a hedging relationship in its entirety or only a
part of it (in which case hedge accounting continues for the remainder of the hedging relationship).
6.5.7 An entity shall apply:
(a) paragraph 6.5.10 when it discontinues hedge accounting for a fair value hedge for which the hedged
item is (or is a component of) a financial instrument measured at amortised cost; and
(b) paragraph 6.5.12 when it discontinues hedge accounting for cash flow hedges.
Fair Value Hedges
6.5.8 As long as a fair value hedge meets the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1, the hedging relationship
shall be accounted for as follows:
(a) the gain or loss on the hedging instrument shall be recognised in profit or loss (or other
comprehensive income, if the hedging instrument hedges an equity instrument for which an entity
has elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.5).
(b) the hedging gain or loss on the hedged item shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item (if
applicable) and be recognised in profit or loss. If the hedged item is a financial asset (or a component
thereof) that is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 4.1.2A, the hedging gain or loss on the hedged item shall be recognised in profit or loss.
However, if the hedged item is an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present
changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5, those
amounts shall remain in other comprehensive income. When a hedged item is an unrecognised firm
commitment (or a component thereof), the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged item
subsequent to its designation is recognised as an asset or a liability with a corresponding gain or
loss recognised in profit or loss.
6.5.9When a hedged item in a fair value hedge is a firm commitment (or a component thereof) to acquire an asset
or assume a liability, the initial carrying amount of the asset or the liability that results from the entity
meeting the firm commitment is adjusted to include the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged
item that was recognised in the statement of financial position.
6.5.10Any adjustment arising from paragraph 6.5.8(b) shall be amortised to profit or loss if the hedged item is a
financial instrument (or a component thereof) measured at amortised cost. Amortisation may begin as soon
as an adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for
hedging gains and losses. The amortisation is based on a recalculated effective interest rate at the date that
amortisation begins. In the case of a financial asset (or a component thereof) that is a hedged item and that
is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A,
amortisation applies in the same manner but to the amount that represents the cumulative gain or loss
previously recognised in accordance with paragraph 6.5.8(b) instead of by adjusting the carrying amount.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
27A
Cash Flow Hedges
6.5.11 As long as a cash flow hedge meets the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1, the hedging relationship
shall be accounted for as follows:
(a) the separate component of equity associated with the hedged item(cash flow hedge reserve) is adjusted
to the lower of the following (in absolute amounts):
(i) the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from inception of the hedge; and
(ii) the cumulative change in fair value (present value) of the hedged item (ie the present value of
the cumulative change in the hedged expected future cash flows) from inception of the hedge.
(b) the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge
(ie the portion that is offset by the change in the cash flow hedge reserve calculated in accordance
with (a)) shall be recognised in other comprehensive income.
(c) any remaining gain or loss on the hedging instrument (or any gain or loss required to balance the
change in the cash flow hedge reserve calculated in accordance with (a)) is hedge ineffectiveness
that shall be recognised in profit or loss.
(d) the amount that has been accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance with (a) shall be
accounted for as follows:
(i) if a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial
asset or non-financial liability, or a hedged forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or
a non-financial liability becomes a firm commitment for which fair value hedge accounting is
applied, the entity shall remove that amount from the cash flow hedge reserve and include it
directly in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the asset or the liability. This is not a
reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) and hence it does not affect other comprehensive
income.
(ii) for cash flow hedges other than those covered by (i), that amount shall be reclassified from the
cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) in the
same period or periods during which the hedged expected future cash flows affect profit or
loss (for example, in the periods that interest income or interest expense is recognised or
when a forecast sale occurs).
(iii) however, if that amount is a loss and an entity expects that all or a portion of that loss will not
be recovered in one or more future periods, it shall immediately reclassify the amount that is
not expected to be recovered into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1).
6.5.12When an entity discontinues hedge accounting for a cash flow hedge (see paragraphs 6.5.6 and 6.5.7(b))
it shall account for the amount that has been accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance
with paragraph 6.5.11(a) as follows:
(a) if the hedged future cash flows are still expected to occur, that amount shall remain in the cash flow
hedge reserve until the future cash flows occur or until paragraph 6.5.11(d)(iii) applies. When the
future cash flows occur, paragraph 6.5.11(d) applies.
(b) if the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, that amount shall be immediately
reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see
LKAS 1). A hedged future cash flow that is no longer highly probable to occur may still be expected
to occur.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
28A
Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
6.5.13 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted
for as part of the net investment (see LKAS 21), shall be accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges:
(a) the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective
hedge shall be recognised in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 6.5.11); and
(b) the ineffective portion shall be recognised in profit or loss.
6.5.14 The cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge that
has been accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve shall be reclassified from equity to
profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) in accordance with paragraphs 48–49 of
LKAS 21 on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
Accounting for the Time Value of Options
6.5.15When an entity separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract and designates as the
hedging instrument only the change in intrinsic value of the option (see paragraph 6.2.4(a)), it shall
account for the time value of the option as follows (see paragraphs B6.5.29–B6.5.33):
(a) an entity shall distinguish the time value of options by the type of hedged item that the option
hedges (see paragraph B6.5.29):
(i) a transaction related hedged item; or
(ii) a time-period related hedged item.
(b) the change in fair value of the time value of an option that hedges a transaction related hedged item
shall be recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that it relates to the hedged item and
shall be accumulated in a separate component of equity. The cumulative change in fair value arising
from the time value of the option that has been accumulated in a separate component of equity (the
‘amount’) shall be accounted for as follows:
(i) if the hedged item subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-
financial liability, or a firm commitment for a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability for
which fair value hedge accounting is applied, the entity shall remove the amount from the
separate component of equity and include it directly in the initial cost or other carrying amount
of the asset or the liability. This is not a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) and hence
does not affect other comprehensive income.
(ii) for hedging relationships other than those covered by (i), the amount shall be reclassified from
the separate component of equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS
1) in the same period or periods during which the hedged expected future cash flows affect
profit or loss (for example, when a forecast sale occurs).
(iii) however, if all or a portion of that amount is not expected to be recovered in one or more future
periods, the amount that is not expected to be recovered shall be immediately reclassified into
profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1).
(c) the change in fair value of the time value of an option that hedges a time-period related hedged item
shall be recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that it relates to the hedged item and
shall be accumulated in a separate component of equity. The time value at the date of designation of

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
29A
the option as a hedging instrument, to the extent that it relates to the hedged item, shall be amortised
on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which the hedge adjustment for the
option’s intrinsic value could affect profit or loss (or other comprehensive income, if the hedged item
is an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value in other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5). Hence, in each reporting period, the
amortisation amount shall be reclassified from the separate component of equity to profit or loss as
a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1). However, if hedge accounting is discontinued for the
hedging relationship that includes the change in intrinsic value of the option as the hedging instrument,
the net amount (ie including cumulative amortisation) that has been accumulated in the separate
component of equity shall be immediately reclassified into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment
(see LKAS 1).
Accounting for the Forward Element of Forward Contracts and Foreign Currency Basis Spreads of Financial
Instruments
6.5.16When an entity separates the forward element and the spot element of a forward contract and designates
as the hedging instrument only the change in the value of the spot element of the forward contract, or when
an entity separates the foreign currency basis spread from a financial instrument and excludes it from the
designation of that financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraph 6.2.4(b)), the entity may
apply paragraph 6.5.15 to the forward element of the forward contract or to the foreign currency basis
spread in the same manner as it is applied to the time value of an option. In that case, the entity shall apply
the application guidance in paragraphs B6.5.34–B6.5.39.
6.6 Hedges of a Group of Items
Eligibility of a Group of Items as the Hedged Item
6.6.1 A group of items (including a group of items that constitute a net position; see paragraphs B6.6.1–
B6.6.8) is an eligible hedged item only if:
(a) it consists of items (including components of items) that are, individually, eligible hedged items;
(b) the items in the group are managed together on a group basis for risk management purposes; and
(c) in the case of a cash flow hedge of a group of items whose variabilities in cash flows are not expected
to be approximately proportional to the overall variability in cash flows of the group so that offsetting
risk positions arise:
(i) it is a hedge of foreign currency risk; and
(ii) the designation of that net position specifies the reporting period in which the forecast
transactions are expected to affect profit or loss, as well as their nature and volume (see
paragraphs B6.6.7–B6.6.8).
Designation of a Component of a Nominal Amount
6.6.2 A component that is a proportion of an eligible group of items is an eligible hedged item provided that
designation is consistent with the entity’s risk management objective.
6.6.3 A layer component of an overall group of items (for example, a bottom layer) is eligible for hedge accounting
only if:
(a) it is separately identifiable and reliably measurable;

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
30A
(b) the risk management objective is to hedge a layer component;
(c) the items in the overall group from which the layer is identified are exposed to the same hedged risk
(so that the measurement of the hedged layer is not significantly affected by which particular items
from the overall group form part of the hedged layer);
(d) for a hedge of existing items (for example, an unrecognised firm commitment or a recognised asset)
an entity can identify and track the overall group of items from which the hedged layer is defined (so
that the entity is able to comply with the requirements for the accounting for qualifying hedging
relationships); and
(e) any items in the group that contain prepayment options meet the requirements for components of a
nominal amount (see paragraph B6.3.20).
Presentation
6.6.4For a hedge of a group of items with offsetting risk positions (ie in a hedge of a net position) whose hedged
risk affects different line items in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, any
hedging gains or losses in that statement shall be presented in a separate line from those affected by the
hedged items. Hence, in that statement the amount in the line item that relates to the hedged item itself (for
example, revenue or cost of sales) remains unaffected.
6.6.5For assets and liabilities that are hedged together as a group in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss in the
statement of financial position on the individual assets and liabilities shall be recognised as an adjustment
of the carrying amount of the respective individual items comprising the group in accordance with paragraph
6.5.8(b).
Nil Net Positions
6.6.6When the hedged item is a group that is a nil net position (ie the hedged items among themselves fully
offset the risk that is managed on a group basis), an entity is permitted to designate it in a hedging
relationship that does not include a hedging instrument, provided that:
(a) the hedge is part of a rolling net risk hedging strategy, whereby the entity routinely hedges new
positions of the same type as time moves on (for example, when transactions move into the time
horizon for which the entity hedges);
(b) the hedged net position changes in size over the life of the rolling net risk hedging strategy and the
entity uses eligible hedging instruments to hedge the net risk (ie when the net position is not nil);
(c) hedge accounting is normally applied to such net positions when the net position is not nil and it is
hedged with eligible hedging instruments; and
(d) not applying hedge accounting to the nil net position would give rise to inconsistent accounting
outcomes, because the accounting would not recognise the offsetting risk positions that would
otherwise be recognised in a hedge of a net position.
6.7 Option to Designate a Credit Exposure as Measured at Fair value through Profit or Loss
Eligibility of Credit Exposures for Designation at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
6.7.1 If an entity uses a credit derivative that is measured at fair value through profit or loss to manage the
credit risk of all, or a part of, a financial instrument (credit exposure) it may designate that financial

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
31A
instrument to the extent that it is so managed (ie all or a proportion of it) as measured at fair value
through profit or loss if:
(a) the name of the credit exposure (for example, the borrower, or the holder of a loan commitment)
matches the reference entity of the credit derivative (‘name matching’); and
(b) the seniority of the financial instrument matches that of the instruments that can be delivered in
accordance with the credit derivative.
An entity may make this designation irrespective of whether the financial instrument that is managed for
credit risk is within the scope of this Standard (for example, an entity may designate loan commitments
that are outside the scope of this Standard). The entity may designate that financial instrument at, or
subsequent to, initial recognition, or while it is unrecognised. The entity shall document the designation
concurrently.
Accounting for Credit Exposures Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
6.7.2 If a financial instrument is designated in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 as measured at fair value through
profit or loss after its initial recognition, or was previously not recognised, the difference at the time of
designation between the carrying amount, if any, and the fair value shall immediately be recognised in
profit or loss. For financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.2A, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income
shall immediately be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1).
6.7.3 An entity shall discontinue measuring the financial instrument that gave rise to the credit risk, or a
proportion of that financial instrument, at fair value through profit or loss if:
(a) the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.7.1 are no longer met, for example:
(i) the credit derivative or the related financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk expires or
is sold, terminated or settled; or
(ii) the credit risk of the financial instrument is no longer managed using credit derivatives. For
example, this could occur because of improvements in the credit quality of the borrower or the
loan commitment holder or changes to capital requirements imposed on an entity; and
(b) the financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk is not otherwise required to be measured at
fair value through profit or loss (ie the entity’s business model has not changed in the meantime so
that a reclassification in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 was required).
6.7.4When an entity discontinues measuring the financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk, or a
proportion of that financial instrument, at fair value through profit or loss, that financial instrument’s fair
value at the date of discontinuation becomes its new carrying amount. Subsequently, the same measurement
that was used before designating the financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss shall be
applied (including amortisation that results from the new carrying amount). For example, a financial asset
that had originally been classified as measured at amortised cost would revert to that measurement and its
effective interest rate would be recalculated based on its new gross carrying amount on the date of
discontinuing measurement at fair value through profit or loss.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
32A
Chapter 7 Effective Date and Transition
7.1 Effective Date
7.1.1 An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after1st January 2018. Earlier
application is permitted. If an entity elects to apply this Standard early, it must disclose that fact and apply
all of the requirements in this Standard at the same time (but see also paragraphs 7.1.2, 7.2.21 and 7.3.2). It
shall also, at the same time, apply the amendments in Appendix C.
7.1.2Despite the requirements in paragraph 7.1.1, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018, an
entity may elect to early apply only the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial
liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 and
B5.7.5–B5.7.20 without applying the other requirements in this Standard. If an entity elects to apply only
those paragraphs, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the related disclosures set out
in paragraphs 10–11 of SLFRS 7. (See also paragraphs 7.2.2 and 7.2.15.)
7.1.3Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraphs 4.2.1 and 5.7.5 as a consequential amendment
derived from the amendment to SLFRS 3. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively to business
combinations to which the amendment to SLFRS 3 applies.
7.1.4SLFRS 15, amended paragraphs 3.1.1, 4.2.1, 5.1.1, 5.2.1, 5.7.6,B3.2.13, B5.7.1, C5 and C42 and deleted
paragraph C16 and its related heading. Paragraphs 5.1.3 and 5.7.1A, and a definition to Appendix A, were
added. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.
7.2 Transition
7.2.1 An entity shall apply this Standard retrospectively, in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.4–7.2.26 and 7.2.28.
This Standard shall not be applied to items that have already been derecognised at the date of initial
application.
7.2.2For the purposes of the transition provisions in paragraphs 7.2.1, 7.2.3, 7.2.28 and 7.3.2, the date of initial
application is the date when an entity first applies those requirements of this Standard and must be the
beginning of a reporting period after the issue of this Standard. Depending on the entity’s chosen approach
to applying SLFRS 9, the transition can involve one or more than one date of initial application for different
requirements.
Transition for Classification and Measurement(Chapters 4 and 5)
7.2.3 At the date of initial application, an entity shall assess whether a financial asset meets the condition in
paragraphs 4.1.2(a) or 4.1.2A(a) on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at that date. The
resulting classification shall be applied retrospectively irrespective of the entity’s business model in prior
reporting periods.
7.2.4If, at the date of initial application, it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity to assess a
modified time value of money element in accordance with paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D on the basis of the
facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess
the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on the basis of the facts and circumstances
that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account the requirements
related to the modification of the time value of money element in paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D. (See also
paragraph 42R of SLFRS 7.)
7.2.5If, at the date of initial application, it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity to assess whether
the fair value of a prepayment feature was insignificant in accordance with paragraph B4.1.12(c) on the

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
33A
basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity
shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on the basis of the facts and
circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account the
exception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12. (See also paragraph 42S of SLFRS 7.)
7.2.6 If an entity measures a hybrid contract at fair value in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.2A, 4.1.4 or 4.1.5 but
the fair value of the hybrid contract had not been measured in comparative reporting periods, the fair value
of the hybrid contract in the comparative reporting periods shall be the sum of the fair values of the
components (ie the non-derivative host and the embedded derivative) at the end of each comparative
reporting period if the entity restates prior periods (see paragraph 7.2.15).
7.2.7 If an entity has applied paragraph 7.2.6 then at the date of initial application the entity shall recognise any
difference between the fair value of the entire hybrid contract at the date of initial application and the sum
of the fair values of the components of the hybrid contract at the date of initial application in the opening
retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the reporting period that includes the
date of initial application.
7.2.8 At the date of initial application an entity may designate:
(a) a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.1.5;
or
(b) an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 5.7.5.
Such a designation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of initial
application. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.
7.2.9 At the date of initial application an entity:
(a) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or
loss if that financial asset does not meet the condition in paragraph 4.1.5.
(b) may revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or
loss if that financial asset meets the condition in paragraph 4.1.5.
Such a revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of initial
application. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.
7.2.10 At the date of initial application, an entity:
(a) may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with
paragraph 4.2.2(a).
(b) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or
loss if such designation was made at initial recognition in accordance with the condition now in
paragraph 4.2.2(a) and such designation does not satisfy that condition at the date of initial application.
(c) may revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or
loss if such designation was made at initial recognition in accordance with the condition now in
paragraph 4.2.2(a) and such designation satisfies that condition at the date of initial application.
Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at
the date of initial application. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
34A
7.2.11 If it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity to apply retrospectively the effective interest
method, the entity shall treat:
(a) the fair value of the financial asset or the financial liability at the end of each comparative period
presented as the gross carrying amount of that financial asset or the amortised cost of that financial
liability if the entity restates prior periods; and
(b) the fair value of the financial asset or the financial liability at the date of initial application as the new
gross carrying amount of that financial asset or the new amortised cost of that financial liability at the
date of initial application of this Standard.
7.2.12 If an entity previously accounted at cost (in accordance with LKAS 39), for an investment in an equity
instrument that does not have a quoted price in an active market for an identical instrument (ie a Level 1
input) (or for a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an equity
instrument) it shall measure that instrument at fair value at the date of initial application. Any difference
between the previous carrying amount and the fair value shall be recognised in the opening retained
earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the reporting period that includes the date of
initial application.
7.2.13 If an entity previously accounted for a derivative liability that is linked to, and must be settled by, delivery
of an equity instrument that does not have a quoted price in an active market for an identical instrument (ie
a Level 1 input) at cost in accordance with LKAS 39, it shall measure that derivative liability at fair value at
the date of initial application. Any difference between the previous carrying amount and the fair value shall
be recognised in the opening retained earnings of the reporting period that includes the date of initial
application.
7.2.14 At the date of initial application, an entity shall determine whether the treatment in paragraph 5.7.7 would
create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss on the basis of the facts and circumstances that
exist at the date of initial application. This Standard shall be applied retrospectively on the basis of that
determination.
7.2.15Despite the requirement in paragraph 7.2.1, an entity that adopts the classification and measurement
requirements of this Standard (which include the requirements related to amortised cost measurement for
financial assets and impairment in Sections 5.4 and 5.5) shall provide the disclosures set out in paragraphs
42L–42O of SLFRS 7 but need not restate prior periods. The entity may restate prior periods if, and only if,
it is possible without the use of hindsight. If an entity does not restate prior periods, the entity shall
recognise any difference between the previous carrying amount and the carrying amount at the beginning
of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application in the opening retained earnings
(or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the date of
initial application. However, if an entity restates prior periods, the restated financial statements must reflect
all of the requirements in this Standard. If an entity’s chosen approach to applying SLFRS 9 results in more
than one date of initial application for different requirements, this paragraph applies at each date of initial
application (see paragraph 7.2.2). This would be the case, for example, if an entity elects to early apply only
the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated as at fair value
through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 7.1.2 before applying the other requirements in this
Standard.
7.2.16 If an entity prepares interim financial reports in accordance with LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting the
entity need not apply the requirements in this Standard to interim periods prior to the date of initial
application if it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8).

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
35A
Impairment (Section 5.5)
7.2.17 An entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 retrospectively in accordance with
LKAS 8 subject to paragraphs 7.2.15 and 7.2.18–7.2.20.
7.2.18 At the date of initial application, an entity shall use reasonable and supportable information that is available
without undue cost or effort to determine the credit risk at the date that a financial instrument was initially
recognised (or for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts at the date that the entity became
a party to the irrevocable commitment in accordance with paragraph 5.5.6) and compare that to the credit
risk at the date of initial application of this Standard.
7.2.19When determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, an
entity may apply:
(a) the requirements in paragraphs 5.5.10 and B5.5.22–B5.5.24; and
(b) the rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 for contractual payments that are more than 30 days
past due if an entity will apply the impairment requirements by identifying significant increases in
credit risk since initial recognition for those financial instruments on the basis of past due information.
7.2.20If, at the date of initial application, determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk
since initial recognition would require undue cost or effort, an entity shall recognise a loss allowance at an
amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date until that financial instrument is
derecognised (unless that financial instrument is low credit risk at a reporting date, in which case paragraph
7.2.19(a) applies).
Transition for Hedge Accounting (Chapter 6)
7.2.21When an entity first applies this Standard, it may choose as its accounting policy to continue to apply the
hedge accounting requirements of LKAS 39 instead of the requirements in Chapter 6 of this Standard. An
entity shall apply that policy to all of its hedging relationships. An entity that chooses that policy shall also
apply IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation without the amendments that conform
that Interpretation to the requirements in Chapter 6 of this Standard.
7.2.22Except as provided in paragraph 7.2.26, an entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements of this
Standard prospectively.
7.2.23 To apply hedge accounting from the date of initial application of the hedge accounting requirements of this
Standard, all qualifying criteria must be met as at that date.
7.2.24Hedging relationships that qualified for hedge accounting in accordance with LKAS 39 that also qualify
for hedge accounting in accordance with the criteria of this Standard (see paragraph 6.4.1), after taking into
account any rebalancing of the hedging relationship on transition (see paragraph 7.2.25(b), shall be regarded
as continuing hedging relationships.
7.2.25 On initial application of the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard, an entity:
(a) may start to apply those requirements from the same point in time as it ceases to apply the hedge
accounting requirements of LKAS 39; and
(b) shall consider the hedge ratio in accordance with LKAS 39 as the starting point for rebalancing the
hedge ratio of a continuing hedging relationship, if applicable. Any gain or loss from such a rebalancing
shall be recognised in profit or loss.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
36A
7.2.26 As an exception to prospective application of the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard, an
entity:
(a) shall apply the accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15
retrospectively if, in accordance with LKAS 39, only the change in an option’s intrinsic value was
designated as a hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. This retrospective application applies
only to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the earliest comparative period
or were designated thereafter.
(b) may apply the accounting for the forward element of forward contracts in accordance with paragraph
6.5.16 retrospectively if, in accordance with LKAS 39, only the change in the spot element of a
forward contract was designated as a hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. This retrospective
application applies only to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the earliest
comparative period or were designated thereafter. In addition, if an entity elects retrospective
application of this accounting, it shall be applied to all hedging relationships that qualify for this
election (ie  on transition this election is not available on a hedging-relationship-by-hedging-
relationship basis).The accounting for foreign currency basis spreads (see paragraph 6.5.16) may be
applied retrospectively for those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the earliest
comparative period or were designated thereafter.
(c) shall apply retrospectively the requirement of paragraph 6.5.6 that there is not an expiration or
termination of the hedging instrument if:
(i) as a consequence of laws or regulations, or the introduction of laws or regulations, the parties to
the hedging instrument agree that one or more clearing counterparties replace their original
counterparty to become the new counterparty to each of the parties; and
(ii)other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to those that are necessary to effect
such a replacement of the counterparty.
Entities That have Applied SLFRS 9 Early
7.2.27 An entity shall apply the transition requirements in paragraphs 7.2.1–7.2.26 at the relevant date of initial
application. An entity shall apply each of the transition provisions in paragraphs 7.2.3–7.2.14 and 7.2.17–
7.2.26 only once (ie if an entity chooses an approach of applying SLFRS 9 that involves more than one date
of initial application, it cannot apply any of those provisions again if they were already applied at an earlier
date). (See paragraphs 7.2.2 and 7.3.2.)
7.2.28 An entity that applied SLFRS 9 (2012)and subsequently applies this Standard:
(a) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or
loss if that designation was previously made in accordance with the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 but
that condition is no longer satisfied as a result of the application of this Standard;
(b) may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that designation
would not have previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 but that condition is now
satisfied as a result of the application of this Standard;
(c) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or
loss if that designation was previously made in accordance with the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a)
but that condition is no longer satisfied as a result of the application of this Standard; and

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
37A
(d) may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that designation
would not have previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that condition is now
satisfied as a result of the application of this Standard.
Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at
the date of initial application of this Standard. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.
7.3 Withdrawal of IFRIC 9, SLFRS 9
7.3.1This Standard supersedes IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives . The requirements added to
SLFRS 9 (2012) incorporated the requirements previously set out in paragraphs 5 and 7 of IFRIC 9. As a
consequential amendment, SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards incorporated
the requirements previously set out in paragraph 8 of IFRIC 9.
7.3.2This Standard supersedes SLFRS 9 (2012). However, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018,
an entity may elect to apply that earlier versions of SLFRS 9 instead of applying this Standard if, and only
if, the entity’s relevant date of initial application is before 1st February 2015.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
38A
Appendix A
Defined Terms
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
12-month expected credit losses The portion of lifetime expected credit losses that represent the expected credit
losses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible
within the 12 months after the reporting date.
Amortised cost of a financial asset The amount at which the financial asset or financial liability is measured at initial
or financial liability recognition minus the principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative
amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between that
initial amount and the maturity amount and, for financial assets, adjusted for any
loss allowance.
Contract assets Those rights that SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers specifies are
accounted for in accordance with this Standard for the purposes of recognising
and measuring impairment gains or losses.
Credit-impaired financial asset A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental
impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have occurred.
Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired include observable data about
the following events:
(a) significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;
(b) a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event;
(c) the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating
to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a
concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise consider;
(d) it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other
financial reorganisation;
(e) the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of
financial difficulties; or
(f) the purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount that
reflects the incurred credit losses.
It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event—instead, the combined
effect of several events may have caused financial assets to become credit-impaired.
Credit loss The difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to an entity in
accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects to
receive (ie all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original effective interest rate (or
credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired
financial assets). An entity shall estimate cash flows by considering all contractual
terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, call and
similar options) through the expected life of that financial instrument. The cash
flows that are considered shall include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or
other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms. There is a
presumption that the expected life of a financial instrument can be estimated reliably.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
39A
However, in those rare cases when it is not possible to reliably estimate the expected
life of a financial instrument, the entity shall use the remaining contractual term of
the financial instrument.
Credit-adjusted effective interest rate The rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts
through the expected life of the financial asset to the amortised cost of a financial
asset that is a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset . When
calculating the credit-adjusted effective interest rate, an entity shall estimate the
expected cash flows by considering all contractual terms of the financial asset (for
example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) and expected credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the
contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate (see paragraphs
B5.4.1 B5.4.3), transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts. There is a
presumption that the cash flows and the expected life of a group of similar financial
instruments can be estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases when it is not
possible to reliably estimate the cash flows or the remaining life of a financial
instrument (or group of financial instruments), the entity shall use the contractual
cash flows over the full contractual term of the financial instrument (or group of
financial instruments).
Derecognition The removal of a previously recognised financial asset or financial liability from an
entity’s statement of financial position.
Derivative A financial instrument or other contract within the scope of this Standard with all
three of the following characteristics.
(a) its value changes in response to the change in a specified interest rate,
financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of
prices or rates, credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the
case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to
the contract (sometimes called the ‘underlying’).
(b) it requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment that is smaller
than would be required for other types of contracts that would be expected
to have a similar response to changes in market factors.
(c) it is settled at a future date.
Dividends Distributions of profits to holders of equity instruments in proportion to their
holdings of a particular class of capital.
Effective interest method The method that is used in the calculation of the amortised cost of a financial
asset or a financial liability and in the allocation and recognition of the interest
revenue or interest expense in profit or loss over the relevant period.
Effective interest rate The rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through
the expected life of the financial asset or financial liability to the gross carrying
amount of a financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial liability. When
calculating the effective interest rate, an entity shall estimate the expected cash
flows by considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (for
example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) but shall not consider
the expected credit losses . The calculation includes all fees and points paid or
received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
40A
interest rate (see paragraphs B5.4.1–B5.4.3), transaction costs , and all other
premiums or discounts. There is a presumption that the cash flows and the expected
life of a group of similar financial instruments can be estimated reliably. However,
in those rare cases when it is not possible to reliably estimate the cash flows or the
expected life of a financial instrument (or group of financial instruments), the
entity shall use the contractual cash flows over the full contractual term of the
financial instrument (or group of financial instruments).
Expected credit losses The weighted average of credit losses with the respective risks of a default
occurring as the weights.
Financial guarantee contract A contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the
holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when
due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial liability at fair value A financial liability that meets one of the following conditions.
through profit or loss (a) it meets the definition of held for trading.
(b) upon initial recognition it is designated by the entity as at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 or 4.3.5.
(c) it is designated either upon initial recognition or subsequently as at fair
value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1.
Firm commitment A binding agreement for the exchange of a specified quantity of resources at a
specified price on a specified future date or dates.
Forecast transaction An uncommitted but anticipated future transaction.
Gross carrying amount of a The amortised cost of a financial asset, before adjusting for any loss allowance.
financial asset
Hedge ratio The relationship between the quantity of the hedging instrument and the quantity
of the hedged item in terms of their relative weighting.
Held for trading A financial asset or financial liability that:
(a) is acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing
it in the near term;
(b) on initial recognition is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments
that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual
pattern of short-term profit-taking; or
(c) is a derivative (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or
a designated and effective hedging instrument).
Impairment gain or loss Gains or losses that are recognised in profit or loss in accordance with paragraph
5.5.8 and that arise from applying the impairment requirements in Section 5.5.
Lifetime expected credit losses The expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the
expected life of a financial instrument.
Loss allowance The allowance for expected credit losses on financial assets measured in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.2, lease receivables and contract assets , the accumulated
impairment amount for financial assets measured in accordance with paragraph
4.1.2A and the provision for expected credit losses on loan commitments and
financial guarantee contracts.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
41A
Modification gain or loss The amount arising from adjusting the gross carrying amount of a financial asset
to reflect the renegotiated or modified contractual cash flows. The entity recalculates
the gross carrying amount of a financial asset as the present value of the estimated
future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the renegotiated or
modified financial asset that are discounted at the financial asset’s original effective
interest rate (or the original credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased
or originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable, the revised
effective interest rate calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. When
estimating the expected cash flows of a financial asset, an entity shall consider all
contractual terms of the financial asset (for example, prepayment, call and similar
options) but shall not consider the  expected credit losses , unless the financial
asset is a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset, in which case
an entity shall also consider the initial expected credit losses that were considered
when calculating the original credit-adjusted effective interest rate.
Past due A financial asset is past due when a counterparty has failed to make a payment
when that payment was contractually due.
Purchased or originated Purchased or originated financial asset(s) that are credit-impaired on initial
credit-impaired financial asset recognition.
Reclassification date The first day of the first reporting period following the change in business model
that results in an entity reclassifying financial assets.
Regular way purchase or sale A purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms require
delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
convention in the market place concerned.
Transaction costs Incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal
of a financial asset or financial liability (see paragraph B5.4.8). An incremental cost
is one that would not have been incurred if the entity had not acquired, issued or
disposed of the financial instrument.
The following terms are defined in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32, Appendix A of SLFRS 7, Appendix A of SLFRS 13 or Appendix
A of SLFRS 15 and are used in this Standard with the meanings specified in LKAS 32, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 13 or SLFRS 15:
(a) credit risk;
2
(b) equity instrument;
(c) fair value;
(d) financial asset;
(e) financial instrument;
(f) financial liability;
(g) transaction price.
–––––––––––––
2 This term (as defined in SLFRS 7) is used in the requirements for presenting the effects of changes in credit risk on
liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph 5.7.7).

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
42A
Appendix B
Application Guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
Scope (Chapter 2)
B2.1 Some contracts require a payment based on climatic, geological or other physical variables. (Those based on
climatic variables are sometimes referred to as ‘weather derivatives’.) If those contracts are not within the scope
of SLFRS 4, they are within the scope of this Standard.
B2.2 This Standard does not change the requirements relating to employee benefit plans that comply with LKAS 26
Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans and royalty agreements based on the volume of sales or
service revenues that are accounted for under SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
B2.3 Sometimes, an entity makes what it views as a ‘strategic investment’ in equity instruments issued by another
entity, with the intention of establishing or maintaining a long-term operating relationship with the entity in
which the investment is made. The investor or joint venturer entity uses LKAS 28 to determine whether the
equity method of accounting shall be applied to such an investment.
B2.4 This Standard applies to the financial assets and financial liabilities of insurers, other than rights and obligations
that paragraph 2.1(e) excludes because they arise under contracts within the scope of SLFRS 4 Insurance
Contracts .
B2.5 Financial guarantee contracts may have various legal forms, such as a guarantee, some types of letter of credit,
a credit default contract or an insurance contract. Their accounting treatment does not depend on their legal
form. The following are examples of the appropriate treatment (see paragraph 2.1(e)):
(a) Although a financial guarantee contract meets the definition of an insurance contract in SLFRS 4 if the
risk transferred is significant, the issuer applies this Standard. Nevertheless, if the issuer has previously
asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting that is
applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either this Standard or SLFRS 4 to such
financial guarantee contracts. If this Standard applies, paragraph 5.1.1 requires the issuer to recognise a
financial guarantee contract initially at fair value. If the financial guarantee contract was issued to an
unrelated party in a stand-alone arm’s length transaction, its fair value at inception is likely to equal the
premium received, unless there is evidence to the contrary. Subsequently, unless the financial guarantee
contract was designated at inception as at fair value through profit or loss or unless paragraphs 3.2.15–
3.2.23 and B3.2.12–B3.2.17 apply (when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition
or the continuing involvement approach applies), the issuer measures it at the higher of:
(i) the amount determined in accordance with Section 5.5; and
(ii)the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised
in accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15 (see paragraph 4.2.1(c)).
(b) Some credit-related guarantees do not, as a precondition for payment, require that the holder is exposed
to, and has incurred a loss on, the failure of the debtor to make payments on the guaranteed asset when
due. An example of such a guarantee is one that requires payments in response to changes in a specified
credit rating or credit index. Such guarantees are not financial guarantee contracts as defined in this
Standard, and are not insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4. Such guarantees are derivatives and the
issuer applies this Standard to them.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
43A
(c) If a financial guarantee contract was issued in connection with the sale of goods, the issuer applies
SLFRS 15 in determining when it recognises the revenue from the guarantee and from the sale of goods.
B2.6 Assertions that an issuer regards contracts as insurance contracts are typically found throughout the issuer’s
communications with customers and regulators, contracts, business documentation and financial statements.
Furthermore, insurance contracts are often subject to accounting requirements that are distinct from the
requirements for other types of transaction, such as contracts issued by banks or commercial companies. In such
cases, an issuer’s financial statements typically include a statement that the issuer has used those accounting
requirements.
Recognition and Derecognition (Chapter 3)
Initial Recognition (Section 3.1)
B3.1.1 As a consequence of the principle in paragraph 3.1.1, an entity recognises all of its contractual rights and
obligations under derivatives in its statement of financial position as assets and liabilities, respectively, except
for derivatives that prevent a transfer of financial assets from being accounted for as a sale (see paragraph
B3.2.14). If a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferee does not recognise the
transferred asset as its asset (see paragraph B3.2.15).
B3.1.2 The following are examples of applying the principle in paragraph 3.1.1:
(a) Unconditional receivables and payables are recognised as assets or liabilities when the entity becomes
a party to the contract and, as a consequence, has a legal right to receive or a legal obligation to pay cash.
(b) Assets to be acquired and liabilities to be incurred as a result of a firm commitment to purchase or sell
goods or services are generally not recognised until at least one of the parties has performed under the
agreement. For example, an entity that receives a firm order does not generally recognise an asset (and the
entity that places the order does not recognise a liability) at the time of the commitment but, instead,
delays recognition until the ordered goods or services have been shipped, delivered or rendered. If a firm
commitment to buy or sell non-financial items is within the scope of this Standard in accordance with
paragraphs 2.4–2.7, its net fair value is recognised as an asset or a liability on the commitment date (see
paragraph B4.1.30(c)). In addition, if a previously unrecognised firm commitment is designated as a
hedged item in a fair value hedge, any change in the net fair value attributable to the hedged risk is
recognised as an asset or a liability after the inception of the hedge (see paragraphs 6.5.8(b) and 6.5.9).
(c) A forward contract that is within the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.1) is recognised as an asset
or a liability on the commitment date, instead of on the date on which settlement takes place. When an
entity becomes a party to a forward contract, the fair values of the right and obligation are often equal, so
that the net fair value of the forward is zero. If the net fair value of the right and obligation is not zero, the
contract is recognised as an asset or liability.
(d) Option contracts that are within the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.1) are recognised as assets
or liabilities when the holder or writer becomes a party to the contract.
(e) Planned future transactions, no matter how likely, are not assets and liabilities because the entity has not
become a party to a contract.
Regular Way Purchase or Sale of Financial Assets
B3.1.3 A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised using either trade date accounting or settlement
date accounting as described in paragraphs B3.1.5 and B3.1.6. An entity shall apply the same method consistently
for all purchases and sales of financial assets that are classified in the same way in accordance with this

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
44A
Standard. For this purpose assets that are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss form a
separate classification from assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss. In addition,
investments in equity instruments accounted for using the option provided in paragraph 5.7.5 form a separate
classification.
B 3.1.4 A contract that requires or permits net settlement of the change in the value of the contract is not a regular way
contract. Instead, such a contract is accounted for as a derivative in the period between the trade date and the
settlement date.
B 3.1.5 The trade date is the date that an entity commits itself to purchase or sell an asset. Trade date accounting refers
to (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date, and (b) derecognition
of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the recognition of a receivable from the
buyer for payment on the trade date. Generally, interest does not start to accrue on the asset and corresponding
liability until the settlement date when title passes.
B 3.1.6 The settlement date is the date that an asset is delivered to or by an entity. Settlement date accounting refers to
(a) the recognition of an asset on the day it is received by the entity, and (b) the derecognition of an asset and
recognition of any gain or loss on disposal on the day that it is delivered by the entity. When settlement date
accounting is applied an entity accounts for any change in the fair value of the asset to be received during the
period between the trade date and the settlement date in the same way as it accounts for the acquired asset. In
other words, the change in value is not recognised for assets measured at amortised cost; it is recognised in
profit or loss for assets classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss; and it is
recognised in other comprehensive income for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A and for investments in equity instruments accounted for in accordance
with paragraph 5.7.5.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
45A
Have the rights to the cash flows
from the asset expired?
Paragraph 3.2.3(a)]
Has the entity transferred its rights to
receive the cash flows from the asset?
[Paragraph 3.2.4(a)]
Has the entity assumed an obligation
to  pay the cash flows from the asset that
meets the considerations in paragraph 3.2.5?
[Paragraph 3.2.4(b)]
Has the entity transferred
substantially  all risks and rewards?
[Paragraph 3.2.6(a)]
Has the entity retained substantially
all risks and rewards?
Paragraph 3.2.6(b)]
Has the entity retained control of
the asset? [Paragraph 3.2.6(c)]
Continue to recognise the asset to the extent of
entity’s continuing involvement
Derecognise the
asset
Continue to
recognise the asset
Derecognise the
asset
Continue to
recognise the asset
Derecognise the
asset
No
Derecognition of Financial Assets (Section 3.2)
B 3.2.1 The following flow chart illustrates the evaluation of whether and to what extent a financial asset is derecognised.
Determine whether the derecognition principles below are applied to
a part or all of an asset (or group of similar assets) [Paragraph 3.2.2]
Consolidate all subsidiaries [Paragraph 3.2.1]

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
46A
Arrangements under which an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a financial
asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients (paragraph
3.2.4(b))
B3.2.2 The situation described in paragraph 3.2.4(b) (when an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash
flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients)
occurs, for example, if the entity is a trust, and issues to investors beneficial interests in the underlying financial
assets that it owns and provides servicing of those financial assets. In that case, the financial assets qualify for
derecognition if the conditions in paragraphs 3.2.5 and 3.2.6 are met.
B3.2.3 In applying paragraph 3.2.5, the entity could be, for example, the originator of the financial asset, or it could be a
group that includes a subsidiary that has acquired the financial asset and passes on cash flows to unrelated third
party investors.
Evaluation of the Transfer of Risks and Rewards of Ownership (paragraph 3.2.6)
B3.2.4 Examples of when an entity has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are:
(a) an unconditional sale of a financial asset;
(b) a sale of a financial asset together with an option to repurchase the financial asset at its fair value at the
time of repurchase; and
(c) a sale of a financial asset together with a put or call option that is deeply out of the money (ie an option that
is so far out of the money it is highly unlikely to go into the money before expiry).
B3.2.5 Examples of when an entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are:
(a) a sale and repurchase transaction where the repurchase price is a fixed price or the sale price plus a
lender’s return;
(b) a securities lending agreement;
(c) a sale of a financial asset together with a total return swap that transfers the market risk exposure back to
the entity;
(d) a sale of a financial asset together with a deep in-the-money put or call option (ie an option that is so far
in the money that it is highly unlikely to go out of the money before expiry); and
(e) a sale of short-term receivables in which the entity guarantees to compensate the transferee for credit
losses that are likely to occur.
B3.2.6 If an entity determines that as a result of the transfer, it has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the transferred asset, it does not recognise the transferred asset again in a future period, unless it
reacquires the transferred asset in a new transaction.
Evaluation of the Transfer of Control
B3.2.7 An entity has not retained control of a transferred asset if the transferee has the practical ability to sell the
transferred asset. An entity has retained control of a transferred asset if the transferee does not have the practical
ability to sell the transferred asset. A transferee has the practical ability to sell the transferred asset if it is traded
in an active market because the transferee could repurchase the transferred asset in the market if it needs to

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
47A
return the asset to the entity. For example, a transferee may have the practical ability to sell a transferred asset if
the transferred asset is subject to an option that allows the entity to repurchase it, but the transferee can readily
obtain the transferred asset in the market if the option is exercised. A transferee does not have the practical ability
to sell the transferred asset if the entity retains such an option and the transferee cannot readily obtain the
transferred asset in the market if the entity exercises its option.
B3.2.8 The transferee has the practical ability to sell the transferred asset only if the transferee can sell the transferred
asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without imposing
additional restrictions on the transfer. The critical question is what the transferee is able to do in practice, not
what contractual rights the transferee has concerning what it can do with the transferred asset or what contractual
prohibitions exist. In particular:
(a) a contractual right to dispose of the transferred asset has little practical effect if there is no market for the
transferred asset, and
(b) an ability to dispose of the transferred asset has little practical effect if it cannot be exercised freely. For
that reason:
(i) the transferee’s ability to dispose of the transferred asset must be independent of the actions of
others (ie it must be a unilateral ability), and
(ii) the transferee must be able to dispose of the transferred asset without needing to attach restrictive
conditions or ‘strings’ to the transfer (eg conditions about how a loan asset is serviced or an option
giving the transferee the right to repurchase the asset).
B3.2.9 That the transferee is unlikely to sell the transferred asset does not, of itself, mean that the transferor has retained
control of the transferred asset. However, if a put option or guarantee constrains the transferee from selling the
transferred asset, then the transferor has retained control of the transferred asset. For example, if a put option or
guarantee is sufficiently valuable it constrains the transferee from selling the transferred asset because the
transferee would, in practice, not sell the transferred asset to a third party without attaching a similar option or
other restrictive conditions. Instead, the transferee would hold the transferred asset so as to obtain payments
under the guarantee or put option. Under these circumstances the transferor has retained control of the transferred
asset.
Transfers That Qualify for Derecognition
B3.2.10 An entity may retain the right to a part of the interest payments on transferred assets as compensation for
servicing those assets. The part of the interest payments that the entity would give up upon termination or
transfer of the servicing contract is allocated to the servicing asset or servicing liability. The part of the interest
payments that the entity would not give up is an interest-only strip receivable. For example, if the entity would
not give up any interest upon termination or transfer of the servicing contract, the entire interest spread is an
interest-only strip receivable. For the purposes of applying paragraph 3.2.13, the fair values of the servicing
asset and interest-only strip receivable are used to allocate the carrying amount of the receivable between the
part of the asset that is derecognised and the part that continues to be recognised. If there is no servicing fee
specified or the fee to be received is not expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing the
servicing, a liability for the servicing obligation is recognised at fair value.
B3.2.11 When measuring the fair values of the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised for
the purposes of applying paragraph 3.2.13, an entity applies the fair value measurement requirements in SLFRS
13 in addition to paragraph 3.2.14.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
48A
Transfers That do not Qualify for Derecognition
B3.2.12 The following is an application of the principle outlined in paragraph 3.2.15. If a guarantee provided by the entity
for default losses on the transferred asset prevents a transferred asset from being derecognised because the
entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the transferred
asset continues to be recognised in its entirety and the consideration received is recognised as a liability.
Continuing Involvement in Transferred Assets
B3.2.13 The following are examples of how an entity measures a transferred asset and the associated liability under
paragraph 3.2.16.
All Assets
(a) If a guarantee provided by an entity to pay for default losses on a transferred asset prevents the transferred
asset from being derecognised to the extent of the continuing involvement, the transferred asset at the
date of the transfer is measured at the lower of (i) the carrying amount of the asset and (ii) the maximum
amount of the consideration received in the transfer that the entity could be required to repay (‘the
guarantee amount’). The associated liability is initially measured at the guarantee amount plus the fair
value of the guarantee (which is normally the consideration received for the guarantee). Subsequently, the
initial fair value of the guarantee is recognised in profit or loss when (or as) the obligation is satisfied (in
accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15) and the carrying value of the asset is reduced by any loss
allowance.
Assets Measured at Amortised Cost
(b) If a put option obligation written by an entity or call option right held by an entity prevents a transferred
asset from being derecognised and the entity measures the transferred asset at amortised cost, the
associated liability is measured at its cost (ie the consideration received) adjusted for the amortisation of
any difference between that cost and the gross carrying amount of the transferred asset at the expiration
date of the option. For example, assume that the gross carrying amount of the asset on the date of the
transfer is Rs.98 and that the consideration received is Rs.95. The gross carrying amount of the asset on
the option exercise date will be Rs.100. The initial carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.95 and
the difference between Rs.95 and Rs.100 is recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
If the option is exercised, any difference between the carrying amount of the associated liability and the
exercise price is recognised in profit or loss.
Assets Measured at Fair Value
(c) If a call option right retained by an entity prevents a transferred asset from being derecognised and the
entity measures the transferred asset at fair value, the asset continues to be measured at its fair value. The
associated liability is measured at (i) the option exercise price less the time value of the option if the option
is in or at the money, or (ii) the fair value of the transferred asset less the time value of the option if the
option is out of the money. The adjustment to the measurement of the associated liability ensures that the
net carrying amount of the asset and the associated liability is the fair value of the call option right. For
example, if the fair value of the underlying asset is Rs.80, the option exercise price is Rs.95 and the time
value of the option is Rs.5, the carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.75 (Rs.80 – Rs.5) and the
carrying amount of the transferred asset is Rs.80 (ie its fair value).
(d) If a put option written by an entity prevents a transferred asset from being derecognised and the entity
measures the transferred asset at fair value, the associated liability is measured at the option exercise price
plus the time value of the option. The measurement of the asset at fair value is limited to the lower of the
fair value and the option exercise price because the entity has no right to increases in the fair value of the

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
49A
transferred asset above the exercise price of the option. This ensures that the net carrying amount of the
asset and the associated liability is the fair value of the put option obligation. For example, if the fair value
of the underlying asset is Rs.120, the option exercise price is Rs.100 and the time value of the option is
Rs.5, the carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.105 (Rs.100 + Rs.5) and the carrying amount of
the asset is Rs.100 (in this case the option exercise price).
(e) If a collar, in the form of a purchased call and written put, prevents a transferred asset from being derecognised
and the entity measures the asset at fair value, it continues to measure the asset at fair value. The
associated liability is measured at (i) the sum of the call exercise price and fair value of the put option less
the time value of the call option, if the call option is in or at the money, or (ii) the sum of the fair value of the
asset and the fair value of the put option less the time value of the call option if the call option is out of the
money. The adjustment to the associated liability ensures that the net carrying amount of the asset and
the associated liability is the fair value of the options held and written by the entity. For example, assume
an entity transfers a financial asset that is measured at fair value while simultaneously purchasing a call
with an exercise price of Rs.120 and writing a put with an exercise price of Rs.80. Assume also that the fair
value of the asset is Rs.100 at the date of the transfer. The time value of the put and call are Rs.1 and Rs.5
respectively. In this case, the entity recognises an asset of Rs.100 (the fair value of the asset) and a liability
of Rs.96 [(Rs.100 + Rs.1) – Rs.5]. This gives a net asset value of Rs.4, which is the fair value of the options
held and written by the entity.
All Transfers
B3.2.14 To the extent that a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferor’s contractual
rights or obligations related to the transfer are not accounted for separately as derivatives if recognising both the
derivative and either the transferred asset or the liability arising from the transfer would result in recognising the
same rights or obligations twice. For example, a call option retained by the transferor may prevent a transfer of
financial assets from being accounted for as a sale. In that case, the call option is not separately recognised as a
derivative asset.
B3.2.15 To the extent that a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferee does not
recognise the transferred asset as its asset. The transferee derecognises the cash or other consideration paid and
recognises a receivable from the transferor. If the transferor has both a right and an obligation to reacquire
control of the entire transferred asset for a fixed amount (such as under a repurchase agreement), the transferee
may measure its receivable at amortised cost if it meets the criteria in paragraph 4.1.2.
Examples
B3.2.16 The following examples illustrate the application of the derecognition principles of this Standard.
(a) Repurchase agreements and securities lending. If a financial asset is sold under an agreement to repurchase
it at a fixed price or at the sale price plus a lender’s return or if it is loaned under an agreement to return it
to the transferor, it is not derecognised because the transferor retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership. If the transferee obtains the right to sell or pledge the asset, the transferor reclassifies
the asset in its statement of financial position, for example, as a loaned asset or repurchase receivable.
(b) Repurchase agreements and securities lending—assets that are substantially the same . If a financial
asset is sold under an agreement to repurchase the same or substantially the same asset at a fixed price or
at the sale price plus a lender’s return or if a financial asset is borrowed or loaned under an agreement to
return the same or substantially the same asset to the transferor, it is not derecognised because the
transferor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(c) Repurchase agreements and securities lending—right of substitution . If a repurchase agreement at a
fixed repurchase price or a price equal to the sale price plus a lender’s return, or a similar securities lending

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
50A
transaction, provides the transferee with a right to substitute assets that are similar and of equal fair value
to the transferred asset at the repurchase date, the asset sold or lent under a repurchase or securities
lending transaction is not derecognised because the transferor retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership.
(d) Repurchase right of first refusal at fair value. If an entity sells a financial asset and retains only a right of
first refusal to repurchase the transferred asset at fair value if the transferee subsequently sells it, the
entity derecognises the asset because it has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(e) Wash sale transaction . The repurchase of a financial asset shortly after it has been sold is sometimes
referred to as a wash sale. Such a repurchase does not preclude derecognition provided that the original
transaction met the derecognition requirements. However, if an agreement to sell a financial asset is
entered into concurrently with an agreement to repurchase the same asset at a fixed price or the sale price
plus a lender’s return, then the asset is not derecognised.
(f) Put options and call options that are deeply in the money . If a transferred financial asset can be called
back by the transferor and the call option is deeply in the money, the transfer does not qualify for
derecognition because the transferor has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Similarly, if the financial asset can be put back by the transferee and the put option is deeply in the money,
the transfer does not qualify for derecognition because the transferor has retained substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership.
(g) Put options and call options that are deeply out of the money. A financial asset that is transferred subject
only to a deep out-of-the-money put option held by the transferee or a deep out-of-the-money call option
held by the transferor is derecognised. This is because the transferor has transferred substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership.
(h) Readily obtainable assets subject to a call option that is neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of
the money. If an entity holds a call option on an asset that is readily obtainable in the market and the option
is neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money, the asset is derecognised. This is because the
entity (i) has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, and (ii)
has not retained control. However, if the asset is not readily obtainable in the market, derecognition is
precluded to the extent of the amount of the asset that is subject to the call option because the entity has
retained control of the asset.
(i) A not readily obtainable asset subject to a put option written by an entity that is neither deeply in the
money nor deeply out of the money. If an entity transfers a financial asset that is not readily obtainable in
the market, and writes a put option that is not deeply out of the money, the entity neither retains nor
transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership because of the written put option. The entity
retains control of the asset if the put option is sufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from selling
the asset, in which case the asset continues to be recognised to the extent of the transferor’s continuing
involvement (see paragraph B3.2.9). The entity transfers control of the asset if the put option is not
sufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from selling the asset, in which case the asset is derecognised.
(j) Assets subject to a fair value put or call option or a forward repurchase agreement . A transfer of a
financial asset that is subject only to a put or call option or a forward repurchase agreement that has an
exercise or repurchase price equal to the fair value of the financial asset at the time of repurchase results
in derecognition because of the transfer of substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(k) Cash-settled call or put options . An entity evaluates the transfer of a financial asset that is subject to a
put or call option or a forward repurchase agreement that will be settled net in cash to determine whether
it has retained or transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. If the entity has not

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
51A
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, it determines whether
it has retained control of the transferred asset. That the put or the call or the forward repurchase agreement
is settled net in cash does not automatically mean that the entity has transferred control (see paragraphs
B3.2.9 and (g), (h) and (i) above).
(l) Removal of accounts provision . A removal of accounts provision is an unconditional repurchase (call)
option that gives an entity the right to reclaim assets transferred subject to some restrictions. Provided
that such an option results in the entity neither retaining nor transferring substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership, it precludes derecognition only to the extent of the amount subject to repurchase
(assuming that the transferee cannot sell the assets). For example, if the carrying amount and proceeds
from the transfer of loan assets are Rs.100,000 and any individual loan could be called back but the
aggregate amount of loans that could be repurchased could not exceed Rs.10,000, Rs.90,000 of the loans
would qualify for derecognition.
(m) Clean-up calls. An entity, which may be a transferor, that services transferred assets may hold a clean-up
call to purchase remaining transferred assets when the amount of outstanding assets falls to a specified
level at which the cost of servicing those assets becomes burdensome in relation to the benefits of
servicing. Provided that such a clean-up call results in the entity neither retaining nor transferring
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the transferee cannot sell the assets, it precludes
derecognition only to the extent of the amount of the assets that is subject to the call option.
(n) Subordinated retained interests and credit guarantees . An entity may provide the transferee with credit
enhancement by subordinating some or all of its interest retained in the transferred asset. Alternatively, an
entity may provide the transferee with credit enhancement in the form of a credit guarantee that could be
unlimited or limited to a specified amount. If the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the transferred asset, the asset continues to be recognised in its entirety. If the entity retains
some, but not substantially all, of the risks and rewards of ownership and has retained control, derecognition
is precluded to the extent of the amount of cash or other assets that the entity could be required to pay.
(o) Total return swaps. An entity may sell a financial asset to a transferee and enter into a total return swap
with the transferee, whereby all of the interest payment cash flows from the underlying asset are remitted
to the entity in exchange for a fixed payment or variable rate payment and any increases or declines in the
fair value of the underlying asset are absorbed by the entity. In such a case, derecognition of all of the
asset is prohibited.
(p) Interest rate swaps . An entity may transfer to a transferee a fixed rate financial asset and enter into an
interest rate swap with the transferee to receive a fixed interest rate and pay a variable interest rate based
on a notional amount that is equal to the principal amount of the transferred financial asset. The interest
rate swap does not preclude derecognition of the transferred asset provided the payments on the swap
are not conditional on payments being made on the transferred asset.
(q) Amortising interest rate swaps . An entity may transfer to a transferee a fixed rate financial asset that is
paid off over time, and enter into an amortising interest rate swap with the transferee to receive a fixed
interest rate and pay a variable interest rate based on a notional amount. If the notional amount of the
swap amortises so that it equals the principal amount of the transferred financial asset outstanding at any
point in time, the swap would generally result in the entity retaining substantial prepayment risk, in which
case the entity either continues to recognise all of the transferred asset or continues to recognise the
transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. Conversely, if the amortisation of the notional
amount of the swap is not linked to the principal amount outstanding of the transferred asset, such a swap
would not result in the entity retaining prepayment risk on the asset. Hence, it would not preclude
derecognition of the transferred asset provided the payments on the swap are not conditional on interest
payments being made on the transferred asset and the swap does not result in the entity retaining any
other significant risks and rewards of ownership on the transferred asset.

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
52A
(r) Write-off. An entity has no reasonable expectations of recovering the contractual cash flows on a financial
asset in its entirety or a portion thereof.
B3.2.17 This paragraph illustrates the application of the continuing involvement approach when the entity’s continuing
involvement is in a part of a financial asset.
Assume an entity has a portfolio of prepayable loans whose coupon and effective interest rate is 10 per
cent and whose principal amount and amortised cost is Rs.10,000. It enters into a transaction in which, in
return for a payment of Rs.9,115, the transferee obtains the right to Rs.9,000 of any collections of principal
plus interest thereon at 9.5 per cent. The entity retains rights to Rs.1,000 of any collections of principal
plus interest thereon at 10 per cent, plus the excess spread of 0.5 per cent on the remaining Rs.9,000 of
principal. Collections from prepayments are allocated between the entity and the transferee proportionately
in the ratio of 1:9, but any defaults are deducted from the entity’s interest of Rs.1,000 until that interest is
exhausted. The fair value of the loans at the date of the transaction is Rs.10,100 and the fair value of the
excess spread of 0.5 per cent is Rs.40.
The entity determines that it has transferred some significant risks and rewards of ownership (for example,
significant prepayment risk) but has also retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership (because
of its subordinated retained interest) and has retained control. It therefore applies the continuing
involvement approach.To apply this Standard, the entity analyses the transaction as (a) a retention of a
fully proportionate retained interest of Rs.1,000, plus (b) the subordination of that retained interest to
provide credit enhancement to the transferee for credit losses.
The entity calculates that Rs.9,090 (90% × Rs.10,100) of the consideration received of Rs.9,115 represents
the consideration for a fully proportionate 90 per cent share. The remainder of the consideration received
(Rs.25) represents consideration received for subordinating its retained interest to provide credit
enhancement to the transferee for credit losses. In addition, the excess spread of 0.5 per cent represents
consideration received for the credit enhancement. Accordingly, the total consideration received for the
credit enhancement is Rs.65 (Rs.25 + Rs.40).
The entity calculates the gain or loss on the sale of the 90 per cent share of cash flows. Assuming that
separate fair values of the 90 per cent part transferred and the 10 per cent part retained are not available at
the date of the transfer, the entity allocates the carrying amount of the asset in accordance with paragraph
3.2.14 of SLFRS 9 as follows:
Fair value Percentage Allocated
carrying amount
Portion transferred 9,090 90% 9,000
Portion retained
    1,010 10%     1,000
Total 10,100 10,000
The entity computes its gain or loss on the sale of the 90 per cent share of the cash flows by deducting the
allocated carrying amount of the portion transferred from the consideration received, ie Rs.90 (Rs.9,090 –
Rs.9,000). The carrying amount of the portion retained by the entity is Rs.1,000.
In addition, the entity recognises the continuing involvement that results from the subordination of its
retained interest for credit losses. Accordingly, it recognises an asset of Rs.1,000 (the maximum amount of
the cash flows it would not receive under the subordination), and an associated liability of Rs.1,065 (which

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
53A
is the maximum amount of the cash flows it would not receive under the subordination, ie Rs.1,000 plus the
fair value of the subordination of Rs.65).
The entity uses all of the above information to account for the transaction as follows:
Debit Credit
Original asset — 9,000
Asset recognised for subordination or the residual interest 1,000 —
Asset for the consideration received in the form of excess spread 40 —
Profit or loss (gain on transfer) — 90
Liability — 1,065
Cash received
    9,115          —
Total 10,155 10,155
Immediately following the transaction, the carrying amount of the asset is Rs.2,040 comprising Rs.1,000,
representing the allocated cost of the portion retained, and Rs.1,040, representing the entity’s additional
continuing involvement from the subordination of its retained interest for credit losses (which includes
the excess spread of Rs.40).
In subsequent periods, the entity recognises the consideration received for the credit enhancement
(Rs.65) on a time proportion basis, accrues interest on the recognised asset using the effective interest
method and recognises any impairment losses on the recognised assets. As an example of the latter,
assume that in the following year there is an impairment loss on the underlying loans of Rs.300. The entity
reduces its recognised asset by Rs.600 (Rs.300 relating to its retained interest and Rs.300 relating to the
additional continuing involvement that arises from the subordination of its retained interest for impairment
losses), and reduces its recognised liability by Rs.300. The net result is a charge to profit or loss for
impairment losses of Rs.300.
Derecognition of Financial Liabilities (Section 3.3)
B3.3.1 A financial liability (or part of it) is extinguished when the debtor either:
(a) discharges the liability (or part of it) by paying the creditor, normally with cash, other financial assets,
goods or services; or
(b) is legally released from primary responsibility for the liability (or part of it) either by process of law or by
the creditor. (If the debtor has given a guarantee this condition may still be met.)
B3.3.2 If an issuer of a debt instrument repurchases that instrument, the debt is extinguished even if the issuer is a
market maker in that instrument or intends to resell it in the near term.
B3.3.3 Payment to a third party, including a trust (sometimes called ‘in-substance defeasance’), does not, by itself,
relieve the debtor of its primary obligation to the creditor, in the absence of legal release.
B3.3.4 If a debtor pays a third party to assume an obligation and notifies its creditor that the third party has assumed its
debt obligation, the debtor does not derecognise the debt obligation unless the condition in paragraph B3.3.1(b)
is met. If the debtor pays a third party to assume an obligation and obtains a legal release from its creditor, the
debtor has extinguished the debt. However, if the debtor agrees to make payments on the debt to the third party
or direct to its original creditor, the debtor recognises a new debt obligation to the third party.
B3.3.5 Although legal release, whether judicially or by the creditor, results in derecognition of a liability, the entity may
recognise a new liability if the derecognition criteria in paragraphs 3.2.1–3.2.23 are not met for the financial assets
transferred. If those criteria are not met, the transferred assets are not derecognised, and the entity recognises a
new liability relating to the transferred assets.

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
54A
B3.3.6 For the purpose of paragraph 3.3.2, the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the
cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the
original effective interest rate, is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present value of the remaining
cash flows of the original financial liability. If an exchange of debt instruments or modification of terms is
accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the
extinguishment. If the exchange or modification is not accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees
incurred adjust the carrying amount of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified
liability.
B3.3.7 In some cases, a creditor releases a debtor from its present obligation to make payments, but the debtor assumes
a guarantee obligation to pay if the party assuming primary responsibility defaults. In these circumstances the
debtor:
(a) recognises a new financial liability based on the fair value of its obligation for the guarantee, and
(b) recognises a gain or loss based on the difference between (i) any proceeds paid and (ii) the carrying
amount of the original financial liability less the fair value of the new financial liability.
Classification (Chapter 4)
Classification of Financial Assets (Section 4.1)
The Entity’s Business Model for Managing Financial Assets
B4.1.1 Paragraph 4.1.1(a) requires an entity to classify financial assets on the basis of the entity’s business model for
managing the financial assets, unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies. An entity assesses whether its financial assets
meet the condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a) on the basis of the business
model as determined by the entity’s key management personnel (as defined in LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures).
B4.1.2 An entity’s business model is determined at a level that reflects how groups of financial assets are managed
together to achieve a particular business objective. The entity’s business model does not depend on management’s
intentions for an individual instrument. Accordingly, this condition is not an instrument-by-instrument approach
to classification and should be determined on a higher level of aggregation. However, a single entity may have
more than one business model for managing its financial instruments. Consequently, classification need not be
determined at the reporting entity level. For example, an entity may hold a portfolio of investments that it
manages in order to collect contractual cash flows and another portfolio of investments that it manages in order
to trade to realise fair value changes. Similarly, in some circumstances, it may be appropriate to separate a
portfolio of financial assets into sub portfolios in order to reflect the level at which an entity manages those
financial assets. For example, that may be the case if an entity originates or purchases a portfolio of mortgage
loans and manages some of the loans with an objective of collecting contractual cash flows and manages the
other loans with an objective of selling them.
B4.1.2A An entity’s business model refers to how an entity manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows.
That is, the entity’s business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash
flows, selling financial assets or both. Consequently, this assessment is not performed on the basis of scenarios
that the entity does not reasonably expect to occur, such as so-called ‘worst case’ or ‘stress case’ scenarios. For
example, if an entity expects that it will sell a particular portfolio of financial assets only in a stress case scenario,
that scenario would not affect the entity’s assessment of the business model for those assets if the entity
reasonably expects that such a scenario will not occur. If cash flows are realised in a way that is different from the
entity’s expectations at the date that the entity assessed the business model (for example, if the entity sells more
or fewer financial assets than it expected when it classified the assets), that does not give rise to a prior period
error in the entity’s financial statements (see LKAS 8) nor does it change the classification of the remaining

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
55A
financial assets held in that business model (ie ; those assets that the entity recognised in prior periods and still
holds) as long as the entity considered all relevant information that was available at the time that it made the
business model assessment. However, when an entity assesses the business model for newly originated or
newly purchased financial assets, it must consider information about how cash flows were realised in the past,
along with all other relevant information.
B4.1.2B An entity’s business model for managing financial assets is a matter of fact and not merely an assertion. It is
typically observable through the activities that the entity undertakes to achieve the objective of the business
model. An entity will need to use judgement when it assesses its business model for managing financial assets
and that assessment is not determined by a single factor or activity. Instead, the entity must consider all relevant
evidence that is available at the date of the assessment. Such relevant evidence includes, but is not limited to:
(a) how the performance of the business model and the financial assets held within that business model are
evaluated and reported to the entity’s key management personnel;
(b) the risks that affect the performance of the business model (and the financial assets held within that
business model) and, in particular, the way in which those risks are managed; and
(c) how managers of the business are compensated (for example, whether the compensation is based on the
fair value of the assets managed or on the contractual cash flows collected).
A Business Model Whose Objective is to Hold Assets in Order to Collect Contractual Cash Flows
B4.1.2C Financial assets that are held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect
contractual cash flows are managed to realise cash flows by collecting contractual payments over the life of the
instrument. That is, the entity manages the assets held within the portfolio to collect those particular contractual
cash flows (instead of managing the overall return on the portfolio by both holding and selling assets). In
determining whether cash flows are going to be realised by collecting the financial assets’ contractual cash
flows, it is necessary to consider the frequency, value and timing of sales in prior periods, the reasons for those
sales and expectations about future sales activity. However sales in themselves do not determine the business
model and therefore cannot be considered in isolation. Instead, information about past sales and expectations
about future sales provide evidence related to how the entity’s stated objective for managing the financial assets
is achieved and, specifically, how cash flows are realised. An entity must consider information about past sales
within the context of the reasons for those sales and the conditions that existed at that time as compared to
current conditions.
B4.1.3 Although the objective of an entity’s business model may be to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual
cash flows, the entity need not hold all of those instruments until maturity. Thus an entity’s business model can
be to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows even when sales of financial assets occur or are
expected to occur in the future.
B4.1.3A The business model may be to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows even if the entity sells financial
assets when there is an increase in the assets’ credit risk. To determine whether there has been an increase in the
assets’ credit risk, the entity considers reasonable and supportable information, including forward looking
information. Irrespective of their frequency and value, sales due to an increase in the assets’ credit risk are not
inconsistent with a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows
because the credit quality of financial assets is relevant to the entity’s ability to collect contractual cash flows.
Credit risk management activities that are aimed at minimising potential credit losses due to credit deterioration
are integral to such a business model. Selling a financial asset because it no longer meets the credit criteria
specified in the entity’s documented investment policy is an example of a sale that has occurred due to an
increase in credit risk. However, in the absence of such a policy, the entity may demonstrate in other ways that the
sale occurred due to an increase in credit risk.

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
56A
B4.1.3B Sales that occur for other reasons, such as sales made to manage credit concentration risk (without an increase
in the assets’ credit risk), may also be consistent with a business model whose objective is to hold financial
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. In particular, such sales may be consistent with a business
model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows if those sales are
infrequent (even if significant in value) or insignificant in value both individually and in aggregate (even if
frequent). If more than an infrequent number of such sales are made out of a portfolio and those sales are more
than insignificant in value (either individually or in aggregate), the entity needs to assess whether and how such
sales are consistent with an objective of collecting contractual cash flows. Whether a third party imposes the
requirement to sell the financial assets, or that activity is at the entity’s discretion, is not relevant to this
assessment. An increase in the frequency or value of sales in a particular period is not necessarily inconsistent
with an objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, if an entity can explain the
reasons for those sales and demonstrate why those sales do not reflect a change in the entity’s business model.
In addition, sales may be consistent with the objective of holding financial assets in order to collect contractual
cash flows if the sales are made close to the maturity of the financial assets and the proceeds from the sales
approximate the collection of the remaining contractual cash flows.
B4.1.4 The following are examples of when the objective of an entity’s business model may be to hold financial assets
to collect the contractual cash flows. This list of examples is not exhaustive. Furthermore, the examples are not
intended to discuss all factors that may be relevant to the assessment of the entity’s business model nor specify
the relative importance of the factors.
Example Analysis
Example 1
An entity holds investments to collect their
contractual cash flows. The funding needs its
financially are predictable and the maturity of its
financial assets is matched to the entity’s estimated
funding needs.
The entity performs credit risk management activities
with the objective of minimising credit losses. In the
past, sales have typically occurred when the financial
assets’ credit risk has increased such that the assets
no longer meet the credit criteria specified in the
entity’s documented investment policy. In addition,
infrequent sales have occurred as a result of
unanticipated funding needs.
Reports to key management personnel focus on the
credit quality of the financial assets and the
contractual return. The entity also monitors fair values
of the financial assets, among other information.
Example 2
An entity’s business model is to purchase portfolios
of financial assets, such as loans. Those portfolios
may or may not include financial assets that are credit
impaired.
Although the entity considers, among other
information, the financial assets’ fair values from a
liquidity perspective (ie the cash amount that would
be realised if the entity needs to sell assets), the
entity’s objective is to hold the financial assets in
order to collect the contractual cash flows. Sales
would not contradict that objective if they were in
response to an increase in the assets’ credit risk, for
example if the assets no longer meet the credit criteria
specified in the entity’s documented investment
policy. Infrequent sales resulting from unanticipated
funding needs (eg in a stress case scenario) also
would not contradict that objective, even if such sales
are significant in value.
The objective of the entity’s business model is to
hold the financial assets in order to collect the
contractual cash flows.

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
57A
If payment on the loans is not made on a timely basis,
the entity attempts to realise the contractual cash flows
through various means—for example, by contacting
the debtor by mail, telephone or other methods. The
entity’s objective is to collect the contractual cash
flows and the entity does not manage any of the loans
in this portfolio with an objective of realising cash
flows by selling them.
In some cases, the entity enters into interest rate swaps
to change the interest rate on particular financial assets
in a portfolio from a floating interest rate to a fixed
interest rate.
Example 3
An entity has a business model with the objective of
originating loans to customers and subsequently
selling those loans to a securitisation vehicle. The
securitisation vehicle issues instruments to investors.
The originating entity controls the securitisation
vehicle and thus consolidates it.
The securitisation vehicle collects the contractual
cash flows from the loans and passes them on to its
investors.
It is assumed for the purposes of this example that the
loans continue to be recognised in the consolidated
statement of financial position because they are not
derecognised by the securitisation vehicle.
Example 4
A financial institution holds financial assets to meet
liquidity needs in a ‘stress case’ scenario (eg, a run on
the bank’s deposits). The entity does not anticipate
selling these assets except in such scenarios.
The entity monitors the credit quality of the financial
assets and its objective in managing the financial
assets is to collect the contractual cash flows. The
entity evaluates the performance of the assets on the
basis of interest revenue earned and credit losses
realised.
However, the entity also monitors the fair value of the
financial assets from a liquidity perspective to ensure
that the cash amount that would be realised if the
Example Analysis
The same analysis would apply even if the entity does
not expect to receive all of the contractual cash flows
(eg some of the financial assets are credit impaired at
initial recognition).
Moreover, the fact that the entity enters into
derivatives to modify the cash flows of the portfolio
does not in itself change the entity’s business model.
The consolidated group originated the loans with the
objective of holding them to collect the contractual
cash flows.
However, the originating entity has an objective of
realising cash flows on the loan portfolio by selling
the loans to the securitisation vehicle, so for the
purposes of its separate financial statements it would
not be considered to be managing this portfolio in
order to collect the contractual cash flows.
The objective of the entity’s business model is to
hold the financial assets to collect contractual cash
flows.
The analysis would not change even if during a
previous stress case scenario the entity had sales
that were significant in value in order to meet its
liquidity needs. Similarly, recurring sales activity that
is insignificant in value is not inconsistent with
holding financial assets to collect contractual cash
flows.
In contrast, if an entity holds financial assets to meet
its everyday liquidity needs and meeting that
objective involves frequent sales that are significant
in value, the objective of the entity’s business model

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
58A
Example Analysis
entity needed to sell the assets in a stress case scenario
would be sufficient to meet the entity’s liquidity needs.
Periodically, the entity makes sales that are insignificant
in value to demonstrate liquidity.
is not to hold the financial assets to collect contractual
cash flows.
Similarly, if the entity is required by its regulator to
routinely sell financial assets to demonstrate that the
assets are liquid, and the value of the assets sold is
significant, the entity’s business model is not to hold
financial assets to collect contractual cash flows.
Whether a third party imposes the requirement to sell
the financial assets, or that activity is at the entity’s
discretion, is not relevant to the analysis.
A Business Model Whose Objective is Achieved by both Collecting Contractual cash Flows and Selling
Financial Assets
B4.1.4A An entity may hold financial assets in a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual
cash flows and selling financial assets. In this type of business model, the entity’s key management personnel
have made a decision that both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets are integral to
achieving the objective of the business model. There are various objectives that may be consistent with this type
of business model. For example, the objective of the business model may be to manage everyday liquidity needs,
to maintain a particular interest yield profile or to match the duration of the financial assets to the duration of the
liabilities that those assets are funding. To achieve such an objective, the entity will both collect contractual cash
flows and sell financial assets.
B4.1.4B Compared to a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows, this
business model will typically involve greater frequency and value of sales. This is because selling financial
assets is integral to achieving the business model’s objective instead of being only incidental to it. However,
there is no threshold for the frequency or value of sales that must occur in this business model because both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets are integral to achieving its objective.
B4.1.4C The following are examples of when the objective of the entity’s business model may be achieved by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. This list of examples is not exhaustive. Furthermore,
the examples are not intended to describe all the factors that may be relevant to the assessment of the entity’s
business model nor specify the relative importance of the factors.
Example Analysis
Example 5
An entity anticipates capital expenditure in a few years.
The entity invests its excess cash in short and long-
term financial assets so that it can fund the expenditure
when the need arises. Many of the financial assets
have contractual lives that exceed the entity’s
anticipated investment period.
The entity will hold financial assets to collect the
contractual cash flows and, when an opportunity
arises, it will sell financial assets to re-invest the cash
in financial assets with a higher return.
The objective of the business model is achieved by
both collecting contractual cash flows and selling
financial assets. The entity will make decisions on an
ongoing basis about whether collecting contractual
cash flows or selling financial assets will maximise
the return on the portfolio until the need arises for
the invested cash.
In contrast, consider an entity that anticipates a cash
outflow in five years to fund capital expenditure and
invests excess cash in short-term financial assets.
When the investments mature, the entity reinvests
the cash in new short-term financial assets. The entity

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
59A
Other Business Models
B4.1.5 Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss if they are not held within a business model
whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or within a business model whose objective
is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets (but see also paragraph 5.7.5).
One business model that results in measurement at fair value through profit or loss is one in which an entity
manages the financial assets with the objective of realising cash flows through the sale of the assets. The entity
makes decisions based on the assets’ fair values and manages the assets to realise those fair values. In this case,
the entity’s objective will typically result in active buying and selling. Even though the entity will collect
The managers responsible for the portfolio are
remunerated based on the overall return generated by
the portfolio.
Example 6
A financial institution holds financial assets to meet
its everyday liquidity needs. The entity seeks to
minimise the costs of managing those liquidity needs
and therefore actively manages the return on the
portfolio. That return consists of collecting contractual
payments as well as gains and losses from the sale of
financial assets.
As a result, the entity holds financial assets to collect
contractual cash flows and sells financial assets to
reinvest in higher yielding financial assets or to better
match the duration of its liabilities. In the past, this
strategy has resulted in frequent sales activity and
such sales have been significant in value. This activity
is expected to continue in the future.
Example 7
An insurer holds financial assets in order to fund
insurance contract liabilities. The insurer uses the
proceeds from the contractual cash flows on the
financial assets to settle insurance contract liabilities
as they come due. To ensure that the contractual cash
flows from the financial assets are sufficient to settle
those liabilities, the insurer undertakes significant
buying and selling activity on a regular basis to
rebalance its portfolio of assets and to meet cash flow
needs as they arise.
maintains this strategy until the funds are needed, at
which time the entity uses the proceeds from the
maturing financial assets to fund the capital
expenditure. Only sales that are insignificant in value
occur before maturity (unless there is an increase in
credit risk). The objective of this contrasting business
model is to hold financial assets to collect contractual
cash flows.
The objective of the business model is to maximise
the return on the portfolio to meet everyday liquidity
needs and the entity achieves that objective by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial
assets. In other words, both collecting contractual
cash flows and selling financial assets are integral to
achieving the business model’s objective.
The objective of the business model is to fund the
insurance contract liabilities. To achieve this
objective, the entity collects contractual cash flows
as they come due and sells financial assets to maintain
the desired profile of the asset portfolio. Thus both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial
assets are integral to achieving the business model’s
objective.
Example Analysis

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
60A
contractual cash flows while it holds the financial assets, the objective of such a business model is not achieved
by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. This is because the collection of contractual
cash flows is not integral to achieving the business model’s objective; instead, it is incidental to it.
B4.1.6 A portfolio of financial assets that is managed and whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis (as
described in paragraph 4.2.2(b)) is neither held to collect contractual cash flows nor held both to collect contractual
cash flows and to sell financial assets. The entity is primarily focused on fair value information and uses that
information to assess the assets’ performance and to make decisions. In addition, a portfolio of financial assets
that meets the definition of held for trading is not held to collect contractual cash flows or held both to collect
contractual cash flows and to sell financial assets. For such portfolios, the collection of contractual cash flows
is only incidental to achieving the business model’s objective. Consequently, such portfolios of financial assets
must be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Contractual Cash Flows That are Solely Payments of Principal and Interest on the
Principal Amount Outstanding
B4.1.7 Paragraph 4.1.1(b) requires an entity to classify a financial on the basis of its contractual cash flow characteristics
if the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash
flows or within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and
selling financial assets, unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies. To do so, the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and
4.1.2A(b) requires an entity to determine whether the asset’s contractual cash flows are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
B4.1.7A Contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding are
consistent with a basic lending arrangement. In a basic lending arrangement, consideration for the time value of
money (see paragraphs B4.1.9A–B4.1.9E) and credit risk are typically the most significant elements of interest.
However, in such an arrangement, interest can also include consideration for other basic lending risks (for
example, liquidity risk) and costs (for example, administrative costs) associated with holding the financial asset
for a particular period of time. In addition, interest can include a profit margin that is consistent with a basic
lending arrangement. In extreme economic circumstances, interest can be negative if, for example, the holder of a
financial asset either explicitly or implicitly pays for the deposit of its money for a particular period of time (and
that fee exceeds the consideration that  the holder receives for the time value of money, credit risk and other basic
lending risks and costs). However, contractual terms that introduce exposure to risks or volatility in the contractual
cash flows that is unrelated to a basic lending arrangement, such as exposure to changes in equity prices or
commodity prices, do not give rise to contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on
the principal amount outstanding. An originated or a purchased financial asset can be a basic lending arrangement
irrespective of whether it is a loan in its legal form.
B4.1.7B In accordance with paragraph 4.1.3(a), principal is the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition.
However that principal amount may change over the life of the financial asset (for example, if there are repayments
of principal).
B4.1.8 An entity shall assess whether contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding for the currency in which the financial asset is denominated.
B4.1.9 Leverage is a contractual cash flow characteristic of some financial assets. Leverage increases the variability of
the contractual cash flows with the result that they do not have the economic characteristics of interest. Stand-
alone option, forward and swap contracts are examples of financial assets that include such leverage. Thus, such
contracts do not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) and cannot be subsequently measured
at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income.

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
61A
Consideration for the Time Value of Money
B4.1.9A Time value of money is the element of interest that provides consideration for only the passage of time. That is,
the time value of money element does not provide consideration for other risks or costs associated with holding
the financial asset. In order to assess whether the element provides consideration for only the passage of time,
an entity applies judgement and considers relevant factors such as the currency in which the financial asset is
denominated and the period for which the interest rate is set.
B4.1.9B However, in some cases, the time value of money element may be modified (ie imperfect). That would be the case,
for example, if a financial asset’s interest rate is periodically reset but the frequency of that reset does not match
the tenor of the interest rate (for example, the interest rate resets every month to a one-year rate) or if a financial
asset’s interest rate is periodically reset to an average of particular short- and long-term interest rates. In such
cases, an entity must assess the modification to determine whether the contractual cash flows represent solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. In some circumstances, the entity may
be able to make that determination by performing a qualitative assessment of the time value of money element
whereas, in other circumstances, it may be necessary to perform a quantitative assessment.
B4.1.9C When assessing a modified time value of money element, the objective is to determine how different the contractual
(undiscounted) cash flows could be from the (undiscounted) cash flows that would arise if the time value of
money element was not modified (the benchmark cash flows). For example, if the financial asset under assessment
contains a variable interest rate that is reset every month to a one-year interest rate, the entity would compare
that financial asset to a financial instrument with identical contractual terms and the identical credit risk except
the variable interest rate is reset monthly to a one-month interest rate. If the modified time value of money element
could result in contractual (undiscounted) cash flows that are significantly different from the (undiscounted)
benchmark cash flows, the financial asset does not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). To
make this determination, the entity must consider the effect of the modified time value of money element in each
reporting period and cumulatively over the life of the financial instrument. The reason for the interest rate being
set in this way is not relevant to the analysis. If it is clear, with little or no analysis, whether the contractual
(undiscounted) cash flows on the financial asset under the assessment could (or could not) be significantly
different from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash flows, an entity need not perform a detailed assessment.
B4.1.9D When assessing a modified time value of money element, an entity must consider factors that could affect future
contractual cash flows. For example, if an entity is assessing a bond with a five-year term and the variable interest
rate is reset every six months to a five-year rate, the entity cannot conclude that the contractual cash flows are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding simply because the interest rate
curve at the time of the assessment is such that the difference between a five-year interest rate and a six-month
interest rate is not significant. Instead, the entity must also consider whether the relationship between the five-
year interest rate and the six-month interest rate could change over the life of the instrument such that the
contractual (undiscounted) cash flows over the life of the instrument could be significantly different from the
(undiscounted) benchmark cash flows. However, an entity must consider only reasonably possible scenarios
instead of every possible scenario. If an entity concludes that the contractual (undiscounted) cash flows could
be significantly different from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash flows, the financial asset does not meet the
condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) and therefore cannot be measured at amortised cost or fair value
through other comprehensive income.
B4.1.9E In some jurisdictions, the government or a regulatory authority sets interest rates. For example, such government
regulation of interest rates may be part of a broad macroeconomic policy or it may be introduced to encourage
entities to invest in a particular sector of the economy. In some of these cases, the objective of the time value of
money element is not to provide consideration for only the passage of time. However, despite paragraphs
B4.1.9A–B4.1.9D, a regulated interest rate shall be considered a proxy for the time value of money element for the
purpose of applying the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) if that regulated interest rate provides
consideration that is broadly consistent with the passage of time and does not provide exposure to risks or
volatility in the contractual cash flows that are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement.

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
62A
Contractual Terms that Change the Timing or Amount of Contractual Cash Flows
B4.1.10 If a financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows
(for example, if the asset can be prepaid before maturity or its term can be extended), the entity must determine
whether the contractual cash flows that could arise over the life of the instrument due to that contractual term are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. To make this determination, the
entity must assess the contractual cash flows that could arise both before, and after, the change in contractual
cash flows. The entity may also need to assess the nature of any contingent event (ie the trigger) that would
change the timing or amount of the contractual cash flows. While the nature of the contingent event in itself is
not a determinative factor in assessing whether the contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and
interest, it may be an indicator. For example, compare a financial instrument with an interest rate that is reset to a
higher rate if the debtor misses a particular number of payments to a financial instrument with an interest rate that
is reset to a higher rate if a specified equity index reaches a particular level. It is more likely in the former case that
the contractual cash flows over the life of the instrument will be solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding because of the relationship between missed payments and an increase in credit
risk. (See also paragraph B4.1.18.)
B4.1.11 The following are examples of contractual terms that result in contractual cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding:
(a) a variable interest rate that consists of consideration for the time value of money, the credit risk associated
with the principal amount outstanding during a particular period of time (the consideration for credit risk
may be determined at initial recognition only, and so may be fixed) and other basic lending risks and
costs, as well as a profit margin;
(b) a contractual term that permits the issuer (ie the debtor) to prepay a debt instrument or permits the holder
(ie the creditor) to put a debt instrument back to the issuer before maturity and the prepayment amount
substantially represents unpaid amounts of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding,
which may include reasonable additional compensation for the early termination of the contract; and
(c) a contractual term that permits the issuer or the holder to extend the contractual term of a debt instrument
(ie an extension option) and the terms of the extension option result in contractual cash flows during the
extension period that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding,
which may include reasonable additional compensation for the extension of the contract.
B4.1.12 Despite paragraph B4.1.10, a financial asset that would otherwise meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and
4.1.2A(b) but does not do so only as a result of a contractual term that permits (or requires) the issuer to prepay
a debt instrument or permits (or requires) the holder to put a debt instrument back to the issuer before maturity
is eligible to be measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (subject to meeting
the condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a)) if:
(a) the entity acquires or originates the financial asset at a premium or discount to the contractual par amount;
(b) the prepayment amount substantially represents the contractual par amount and accrued (but unpaid)
contractual interest, which may include reasonable additional compensation for the early termination of
the contract; and
(c) when the entity initially recognises the financial asset, the fair value of the prepayment feature is insignificant.

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
63A
Instrument Analysis
Instrument A
Instrument A is a bond with a stated maturity date.
Payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding are linked to an inflation index of
the currency in which the instrument is issued. The
inflation link is not leveraged and the principal is
protected.
Instrument B
Instrument B is a variable interest rate instrument with
a stated maturity date that permits the borrower to
choose the market interest rate on an ongoing basis.
For example, at each interest rate reset date, the
borrower can choose to pay three-month LIBOR for a
three-month term or one-month LIBOR for a one-
month term.
The contractual cash flows are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding. Linking payments of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding to an
unleveraged inflation index resets the time value of
money to a current level. In other words, the interest
rate on the instrument reflects ‘real’ interest. Thus,
the interest amounts are consideration for the time
value of money on the principal amount outstanding.
However, if the interest payments were indexed to
another variable such as the debtor’s performance
(eg the debtor’s net income) or an equity index, the
contractual cash flows are not payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding
(unless the indexing to the debtor’s performance
results in an adjustment that only compensates the
holder for changes in the credit risk of the instrument,
such that contractual cash flows are solely payments
of principal and interest). That is because the
contractual cash flows reflect a return that is
inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement (see
paragraph B4.1.7A).
The contractual cash flows are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding as long as the interest paid over the life
of the instrument reflects consideration for the time
value of money, for the credit risk associated with the
instrument and for other basic lending risks and costs,
as well as a profit margin (see paragraph B4.1.7A).
The fact that the LIBOR interest rate is reset during
the life of the instrument does not in itself disqualify
the instrument.
However, if the borrower is able to choose to pay a
one-month interest rate that is reset every three
months, the interest rate is reset with a frequency
that does not match the tenor of the interest rate.
Consequently, the time value of money element is
modified.
Similarly, if an instrument has a contractual interest
rate that is based on a term that can exceed the
instrument’s remaining life (for example, if an
instrument with a five-year maturity pays a variable
rate that is reset periodically but always reflects a
five-year maturity), the time value of money element
is modified. That is because the interest payable in
each period is disconnected from the interest period.
B4.1.13 The following examples illustrate contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding. This list of examples is not exhaustive.

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
64A
Instrument Analysis
In such cases, the entity must qualitatively or
quantitatively assess the contractual cash flows
against those on an instrument that is identical in all
respects except the tenor of the interest rate matches
the interest period to determine if the cash flows are
solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding. (But see paragraph
B4.1.9E for guidance on regulated interest rates.)
For example, in assessing a bond with a five-year
term that pays a variable rate that is reset every six
months but always reflects a five-year maturity, an
entity considers the contractual cash flows on an
instrument that resets every six months to a six-month
interest rate but is otherwise identical.
The same analysis would apply if the borrower is
able to choose between the lender’s various published
interest rates (eg the borrower can choose between
the lender’s published one-month variable interest
rate and the lender’s published three-month variable
interest rate).
The contractual cash flows of both:
(a) an instrument that has a fixed interest rate and
(b) an instrument that has a variable interest rate
are payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding as long as the interest reflects
consideration for the time value of money, for the
credit risk associated with the instrument during the
term of the instrument and for other basic lending
risks and costs, as well as a profit margin. (See
paragraph B4.1.7A)
Consequently, an instrument that is a combination of
(a) and (b) (eg a bond with an interest rate cap) can
have cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Such a contractual term may reduce cash flow
variability by setting a limit on a variable interest rate
(eg an interest rate cap or floor) or increase the cash
flow variability because a fixed rate becomes variable.
Instrument C
Instrument C is a bond with a stated maturity date and
pays a variable market interest rate. That variable
interest rate is capped.

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
65A
Instrument Analysis
The fact that a full recourse loan is collateralised does
not in itself affect the analysis of whether the
contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
The holder would analyse the contractual terms of
the financial instrument to determine whether they
give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding and thus are consistent with a basic
lending arrangement.
That analysis would not consider the payments that
arise only as a result of the national resolving
authority’s power to impose losses on the holders of
Instrument E. That is because that power, and the
resulting payments, are not contractual terms of the
financial instrument.
In contrast, the contractual cash flows would not be
solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding if the contractual terms
of the financial instrument permit or require the issuer
or another entity to impose losses on the holder (eg
by writing down the par amount or by converting the
instrument into a fixed number of the issuer’s ordinary
shares) as long as those contractual terms are genuine,
even if the probability is remote that such a loss will
be imposed.
Instrument D
Instrument D is a full recourse loan and is secured by
collateral.
Instrument E
Instrument E is issued by a regulated bank and has a
stated maturity date. The instrument pays a fixed
interest rate and all contractual cash flows are non-
discretionary.
However, the issuer is subject to legislation that permits
or requires a national resolving authority to impose
losses on holders of particular instruments, including
Instrument E, in particular circumstances. For example,
the national resolving authority has the power to write
down the par amount of Instrument E or to convert it
into a fixed number of the issuer’s ordinary shares if
the national resolving authority determines that the
issuer is having severe financial difficulties, needs
additional regulatory capital or is ‘failing’.
Instrument Analysis
B4.1.14 The following examples illustrate contractual cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest on
the principal amount outstanding. This list of examples is not exhaustive.
Instrument F
Instrument F is a bond that is convertible into a fixed
number of equity instruments of the issuer.
The holder would analyse the convertible bond in its
entirety.
The contractual cash flows are not payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding because they reflect a return that is
inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement (see
paragraph B4.1.7A); ie the return is linked to the value
of the equity of the issuer.

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
66A
Instrument Analysis
Instrument G
Instrument G is a loan that pays an inverse floating
interest rate (ie the interest rate has an inverse
relationship to market interest rates).
Instrument H
Instrument H is a perpetual instrument but the issuer
may call the instrument at any point and pay the holder
the par amount plus accrued interest due.
Instrument H pays a market interest rate but payment
of interest cannot be made unless the issuer is able to
remain solvent immediately afterwards.
Deferred interest does not accrue additional interest.
The contractual cash flows are not solely payments
of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding.
The interest amounts are not consideration for the
time value of money on the principal amount
outstanding.
The contractual cash flows are not payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding. That is because the issuer may be
required to defer interest payments and additional
interest does not accrue on those deferred interest
amounts. As a result, interest amounts are not
consideration for the time value of money on the
principal amount outstanding.
If interest accrued on the deferred amounts, the
contractual cash flows could be payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
The fact that Instrument H is perpetual does not in
itself mean that the contractual cash flows are not
payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding. In effect, a perpetual instrument
has continuous (multiple) extension options. Such
options may result in contractual cash flows that are
payments of principal and interest on the principal
amount outstanding if interest payments are
mandatory and must be paid in perpetuity.
Also, the fact that Instrument H is callable does not
mean that the contractual cash flows are not payments
of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding unless it is callable at an amount that
does not substantially reflect payment of outstanding
principal and interest on that principal amount
outstanding. Even if the callable amount includes an
amount that reasonably compensates the holder for
the early termination of the instrument, the contractual
cash flows could be payments of principal and interest
on the principal amount outstanding. (See also
paragraph B4.1.12.)

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
67A
B4.1.15 In some cases a financial asset may have contractual cash flows that are described as principal and interest but
those cash flows do not represent the payment of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding as
described in paragraphs 4.1.2(b), 4.1.2A(b) and 4.1.3 of this Standard.
B4.1.16 This may be the case if the financial asset represents an investment in particular assets or cash flows and hence
the contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
For example, if the contractual terms stipulate that the financial asset’s cash flows increase as more automobiles
use a particular toll road, those contractual cash flows are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement. As a
result, the instrument would not satisfy the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). This could be the
case when a creditor’s claim is limited to specified assets of the debtor or the cash flows from specified assets
(for example, a ‘non-recourse’ financial asset).
B4.1.17 However, the fact that a financial asset is non-recourse does not in itself necessarily preclude the financial asset
from meeting the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). In such situations, the creditor is required to
assess (‘look through to’) the particular underlying assets or cash flows to determine whether the contractual
cash flows of the financial asset being classified are payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
outstanding. If the terms of the financial asset give rise to any other cash flows or limit the cash flows in a
manner inconsistent with payments representing principal and interest, the financial asset does not meet the
condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). Whether the underlying assets are financial assets or non-
financial assets does not in itself affect this assessment.
B4.1.18 A contractual cash flow characteristic does not affect the classification of the financial asset if it could have
only a de minimis effect on the contractual cash flows of the financial asset. To make this determination, an
entity must consider the possible effect of the contractual cash flow characteristic in each reporting period and
cumulatively over the life of the financial instrument. In addition, if a contractual cash flow characteristic could
have an effect on the contractual cash flows that is more than de minimis (either in a single reporting period or
cumulatively) but that cash flow characteristic is not genuine, it does not affect the classification of a financial
asset. A cash flow characteristic is not genuine if it affects the instrument’s contractual cash flows only on the
occurrence of an event that is extremely rare, highly abnormal and very unlikely to occur.
B4.1.19 In almost every lending transaction the creditor’s instrument is ranked relative to the instruments of the
debtor’s other creditors. An instrument that is subordinated to other instruments may have contractual cash
flows that are payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding if the debtor’s non-
payment is a breach of contract and the holder has a contractual right to unpaid amounts of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding even in the event of the debtor’s bankruptcy. For example, a trade
receivable that ranks its creditor as a general creditor would qualify as having payments of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding. This is the case even if the debtor issued loans that are collateralised,
which in the event of bankruptcy would give that loan holder priority over the claims of the general creditor in
respect of the collateral but does not affect the contractual right of the general creditor to unpaid principal and
other amounts due.
Contractually Linked Instruments
B4.1.20 In some types of transactions, an issuer may prioritise payments to the holders of financial assets using
multiple contractually linked instruments that create concentrations of credit risk (tranches). Each tranche has
a subordination ranking that specifies the order in which any cash flows generated by the issuer are allocated
to the tranche. In such situations, the holders of a tranche have the right to payments of principal and interest
on the principal amount outstanding only if the issuer generates sufficient cash flows to satisfy higher-ranking
tranches.

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
68A
B4.1.21 In such transactions, a tranche has cash flow characteristics that are payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding only if:
(a) the contractual terms of the tranche being assessed for classification (without looking through to the
underlying pool of financial instruments) give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding (eg. the interest rate on the tranche is not linked to a
commodity index);
(b) the underlying pool of financial instruments has the cash flow characteristics set out in paragraphs
B4.1.23 and B4.1.24; and
(c) the exposure to credit risk in the underlying pool of financial instruments inherent in the tranche is equal
to or lower than the exposure to credit risk of the underlying pool of financial instruments (for example,
the credit rating of the tranche being assessed for classification is equal to or higher than the credit rating
that would apply to a single tranche that funded the underlying pool of financial instruments).
B4.1.22 An entity must look through until it can identify the underlying pool of instruments that are creating (instead
of passing through) the cash flows. This is the underlying pool of financial instruments.
B4.1.23 The underlying pool must contain one or more instruments that have contractual cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
B4.1.24 The underlying pool of instruments may also include instruments that:
(a) reduce the cash flow variability of the instruments in paragraph B4.1.23 and, when combined with the
instruments in paragraph B4.1.23, result in cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest
on the principal amount outstanding (eg. an interest rate cap or floor or a contract that reduces the credit
risk on some or all of the instruments in paragraph B4.1.23); or
(b) align the cash flows of the tranches with the cash flows of the pool of underlying instruments in paragraph
B4.1.23 to address differences in and only in:
(i) whether the interest rate is fixed or floating;
(ii) the currency in which the cash flows are denominated, including inflation in that currency; or
(iii) the timing of the cash flows.
B4.1.25 If any instrument in the pool does not meet the conditions in either paragraph B4.1.23 or paragraph B4.1.24, the
condition in paragraph B4.1.21(b) is not met. In performing this assessment, a detailed instrument-by-instrument
analysis of the pool may not be necessary. However, an entity must use judgement and perform sufficient
analysis to determine whether the instruments in the pool meet the conditions in paragraphs B4.1.23–B4.1.24.
(See also paragraph B4.1.18 for guidance on contractual cash flow characteristics that have only a de minimis
effect.)
B4.1.26 If the holder cannot assess the conditions in paragraph B4.1.21 at initial recognition, the tranche must be
measured at fair value through profit or loss. If the underlying pool of instruments can change after initial
recognition in such a way that the pool may not meet the conditions in paragraphs B4.1.23–B4.1.24, the tranche
does not meet the conditions in paragraph B4.1.21 and must be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
However, if the underlying pool includes instruments that are collateralised by assets that do not meet the
conditions in paragraphs B4.1.23–B4.1.24, the ability to take possession of such assets shall be disregarded for
the purposes of applying this paragraph unless the entity acquired the tranche with the intention of controlling
the collateral.

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
69A
Option to Designate a Financial Asset or Financial Liability as at Fair Value through Profit
or Loss (Sections 4.1 and 4.2)
B4.1.27 Subject to the conditions in paragraphs 4.1.5 and 4.2.2, this Standard allows an entity to designate a financial
asset, a financial liability, or a group of financial instruments (financial assets, financial liabilities or both) as at
fair value through profit or loss provided that doing so results in more relevant information.
B4.1.28 The decision of an entity to designate a financial asset or financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss
is similar to an accounting policy choice (although, unlike an accounting policy choice, it is not required to be
applied consistently to all similar transactions). When an entity has such a choice, paragraph 14(b) of LKAS 8
requires the chosen policy to result in the financial statements providing reliable and more relevant information
about the effects of transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position, financial
performance or cash flows. For example, in the case of designation of a financial liability as at fair value through
profit or loss, paragraph 4.2.2 sets out the two circumstances when the requirement for more relevant information
will be met. Accordingly, to choose such designation in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2, the entity needs to
demonstrate that it falls within one (or both) of these two circumstances.
Designation Eliminates or Significantly Reduces an Accounting Mismatch
B4.1.29 Measurement of a financial asset or financial liability and classification unrecognized changes in its value are
determined by the item’s classification and whether the item is part of a designated hedging relationship. Those
requirements can create a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting
mismatch’) when, for example, in the absence of designation as at fair value through profit or loss, a financial
asset would be classified as subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss and a liability the entity
considers related would be subsequently measured at amortised cost (with changes in fair value not recognised).
In such circumstances, an entity may conclude that its financial statements would provide more relevant
information if both the asset and the liability were measured as at fair value through profit or loss.
B4.1.30 The following examples show when this condition could be met. In all cases, an entity may use this condition
to designate financial assets or financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss only if it meets the
principle in paragraph 4.1.5 or 4.2.2(a):
(a) an entity has liabilities under insurance contracts whose measurement incorporates current information
(as permitted by paragraph 24 of SLFRS 4) and financial assets that it considers to be related and that
would otherwise be measured at either fair value through other comprehensive income or amortised
cost.
(b) an entity has financial assets, financial liabilities or both that share a risk, such as interest rate risk, and
that gives rise to opposite changes in fair value that tend to offset each other. However, only some of
the instruments would be measured at fair value through profit or loss (for example, those that are
derivatives, or are classified as held for trading). It may also be the case that the requirements for hedge
accounting are not met because, for example, the requirements for hedge effectiveness in paragraph
6.4.1 are not met.
(c) an entity has financial assets, financial liabilities or both that share a risk, such as interest rate risk, that
gives rise to opposite changes in fair value that tend to offset each other and none of the financial
assets or financial liabilities qualifies for designation as a hedging instrument because they are not
measured at fair value through profit or loss. Furthermore, in the absence of hedge accounting there is
a significant inconsistency in the recognition of gains and losses. For example, the entity has financed
a specified group of loans by issuing traded bonds whose changes in fair value tend to offset each
other. If, in addition, the entity regularly buys and sells the bonds but rarely, if ever, buys and sells the
loans, reporting both the loans and the bonds at fair value through profit or loss eliminates the
inconsistency in the timing of the recognition of the gains and losses that would otherwise result from
measuring them both at amortised cost and recognising a gain or loss each time a bond is repurchased.

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
70A
B4.1.31 In cases such as those described in the preceding paragraph, to designate, at initial recognition, the financial
assets and financial liabilities not otherwise so measured as at fair value through profit or loss may eliminate or
significantly reduce the measurement or recognition inconsistency and produce more relevant information. For
practical purposes, the entity need not enter into all of the assets and liabilities giving rise to the measurement
or recognition inconsistency at exactly the same time. A reasonable delay is permitted provided that each
transaction is designated as at fair value through profit or loss at its initial recognition and, at that time, any
remaining transactions are expected to occur.
B4.1.32 It would not be acceptable to designate only some of the financial assets and financial liabilities giving rise to
the inconsistency as at fair value through profit or loss if to do so would not eliminate or significantly reduce
the inconsistency and would therefore not result in more relevant information. However, it would be acceptable
to designate only some of a number of similar financial assets or similar financial liabilities if doing so achieves
a significant reduction (and possibly a greater reduction than other allowable designations) in the inconsistency.
For example, assume an entity has a number of similar financial liabilities that sum to Rs.100 and a number of
similar financial assets that sum to Rs.50 but are measured on a different basis. The entity may significantly
reduce the measurement inconsistency by designating at initial recognition all of the assets but only some of
the liabilities (for example, individual liabilities with a combined total of Rs.45) as at fair value through profit or
loss. However, because designation as at fair value through profit or loss can be applied only to the whole of
a financial instrument, the entity in this example must designate one or more liabilities in their entirety. It could
not designate either a component of a liability (eg. changes in value attributable to only one risk, such as
changes in a benchmark interest rate) or a proportion (ie percentage) of a liability.
A Group of Financial Liabilities or Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities is Managed and its Performance
is Evaluated on a Fair Value Basis
B4.1.33 An entity may manage and evaluate the performance of a group of financial liabilities or financial assets and
financial liabilities in such a way that measuring that group at fair value through profit or loss results in more
relevant information. The focus in this instance is on the way the entity manages and evaluates performance,
instead of on the nature of its financial instruments.
B4.1.34 For example, an entity may use this condition to designate financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or
loss if it meets the principle in paragraph 4.2.2(b) and the entity has financial assets and financial liabilities that
share one or more risks and those risks are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a
documented policy of asset and liability management. An example could be an entity that has issued ‘structured
products’ containing multiple embedded derivatives and manages the resulting risks on a fair value basis using
a mix of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments.
B4.1.35 As noted above, this condition relies on the way the entity manages and evaluates performance of the group
of financial instruments under consideration. Accordingly, (subject to the requirement of designation at initial
recognition) an entity that designates financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss on the basis of
this condition shall so designate all eligible financial liabilities that are managed and evaluated together.
B4.1.36 Documentation of the entity’s strategy need not be extensive but should be sufficient to demonstrate compliance
with paragraph 4.2.2(b). Such documentation is not required for each individual item, but may be on a portfolio
basis. For example, if the performance management system for a Department—as approved by the entity’s key
management personnel—clearly demonstrates that its performance is evaluated on this basis, no further
documentation is required to demonstrate compliance with paragraph 4.2.2(b).
Embedded Derivatives (Section 4.3)
B4.3.1 When an entity becomes a party to a hybrid contract with a host that is not an asset within the scope of this
Standard, paragraph 4.3.3 requires the entity to identify any embedded derivative, assess whether it is required
to be separated from the host contract and, for those that are required to be separated, measure the derivatives
at fair value at initial recognition and subsequently at fair value through profit or loss.

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
71A
B4.3.2 If a host contract has no stated or predetermined maturity and represents a residual interest in the net assets of
an entity, then its economic characteristics and risks are those of an equity instrument, and an embedded
derivative would need to possess equity characteristics related to the same entity to be regarded as closely
related. If the host contract is not an equity instrument and meets the definition of a financial instrument, then
its economic characteristics and risks are those of a debt instrument.
B4.3.3 An embedded non-option derivative (such as an embedded forward or swap) is separated from its host contract
on the basis of its stated or implied substantive terms, so as to result in it having a fair value of zero at initial
recognition. An embedded option-based derivative (such as an embedded put, call, cap, floor or swaption) is
separated from its host contract on the basis of the stated terms of the option feature. The initial carrying
amount of the host instrument is the residual amount after separating the embedded derivative.
B4.3.4 Generally, multiple embedded derivatives in a single hybrid contract are treated as a single compound embedded
derivative. However, embedded derivatives that are classified as equity (see LKAS 32) are accounted for
separately from those classified as assets or liabilities. In addition, if a hybrid contract has more than one
embedded derivative and those derivatives relate to different risk exposures and are readily separable and
independent of each other, they are accounted for separately from each other.
B4.3.5 The economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are not closely related to the host contract
(paragraph 4.3.3(a)) in the following examples. In these examples, assuming the conditions in paragraph 4.3.3(b)
and (c) are met, an entity accounts for the embedded derivative separately from the host contract.
(a) A put option embedded in an instrument that enables the holder to require the issuer to reacquire the
instrument for an amount of cash or other assets that varies on the basis of the change in an equity or
commodity price or index is not closely related to a host debt instrument.
(b) An option or automatic provision to extend the remaining term to maturity of a debt instrument is not
closely related to the host debt instrument unless there is a concurrent adjustment to the approximate
current market rate of interest at the time of the extension. If an entity issues a debt instrument and the
holder of that debt instrument writes a call option on the debt instrument to a third party, the issuer
regards the call option as extending the term to maturity of the debt instrument provided the issuer can
be required to participate in or facilitate the remarketing of the debt instrument as a result of the call
option being exercised.
(c) Equity-indexed interest or principal payments embedded in a host debt instrument or insurance contract—
by which the amount of interest or principal is indexed to the value of equity instruments—are not
closely related to the host instrument because the risks inherent in the host and the embedded derivative
are dissimilar.
(d) Commodity-indexed interest or principal payments embedded in a host debt instrument or insurance
contract—by which the amount of interest or principal is indexed to the price of a commodity (such as
gold)—are not closely related to the host instrument because the risks inherent in the host and the
embedded derivative are dissimilar.
(e) A call, put, or prepayment option embedded in a host debt contract or host insurance contract is not
closely related to the host contract unless:
(i) the option’s exercise price is approximately equal on each exercise date to the amortised cost of the
host debt instrument or the carrying amount of the host insurance contract; or
(ii) the exercise price of a prepayment option reimburses the lender for an amount up to the approximate
present value of lost interest for the remaining term of the host contract. Lost interest is the
product of the principal amount prepaid multiplied by the interest rate differential. The interest rate

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
72A
differential is the excess of the effective interest rate of the host contract over the effective interest
rate the entity would receive at the prepayment date if it reinvested the principal amount prepaid in
a similar contract for the remaining term of the host contract.
The assessment of whether the call or put option is closely related to the host debt contract is
made before separating the equity element of a convertible debt instrument in accordance with
LKAS 32.
(f) Credit derivatives that are embedded in a host debt instrument and allow one party (the ‘beneficiary’) to
transfer the credit risk of a particular reference asset, which it may not own, to another party (the
‘guarantor’) are not closely related to the host debt instrument. Such credit derivatives allow the guarantor
to assume the credit risk associated with the reference asset without directly owning it.
B4.3.6 An example of a hybrid contract is a financial instrument that gives the holder a right to put the financial
instrument back to the issuer in exchange for an amount of cash or other financial assets that varies on the basis
of the change in an equity or commodity index that may increase or decrease (a ‘puttable instrument’). Unless
the issuer on initial recognition designates the puttable instrument as a financial liability at fair value through
profit or loss, it is required to separate an embedded derivative (ie  the indexed principal payment) under
paragraph 4.3.3 because the host contract is a debt instrument under paragraph B4.3.2 and the indexed principal
payment is not closely related to a host debt instrument under paragraph B4.3.5(a). Because the principal
payment can increase and decrease, the embedded derivative is a non-option derivative whose value is indexed
to the underlying variable.
B4.3.7 In the case of a puttable instrument that can be put back at any time for cash equal to a proportionate share of
the net asset value of an entity (such as units of an open-ended mutual fund or some unit-linked investment
products), the effect of separating an embedded derivative and accounting for each component is to measure
the hybrid contract at the redemption amount that is payable at the end of the reporting period if the holder
exercised its right to put the instrument back to the issuer.
B4.3.8 The economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are closely related to the economic
characteristics and risks of the host contract in the following examples. In these examples, an entity does not
account for the embedded derivative separately from the host contract.
(a) An embedded derivative in which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate index that can change
the amount of interest that would otherwise be paid or received on an interest-bearing host debt contract
or insurance contract is closely related to the host contract unless the hybrid contract can be settled in
such a way that the holder would not recover substantially all of its recognised investment or the
embedded derivative could at least double the holder’s initial rate of return on the host contract and
could result in a rate of return that is at least twice what the market return would be for a contract with the
same terms as the host contract.
(b) An embedded floor or cap on the interest rate on a debt contract or insurance contract is closely related
to the host contract, provided the cap is at or above the market rate of interest and the floor is at or below
the market rate of interest when the contract is issued, and the cap or floor is not leveraged in relation to
the host contract. Similarly, provisions included in a contract to purchase or sell an asset (eg. a commodity)
that establish a cap and a floor on the price to be paid or received for the asset are closely related to the
host contract if both the cap and floor were out of the money at inception and are not leveraged.
(c) An embedded foreign currency derivative that provides a stream of principal or interest payments that
are denominated in a foreign currency and is embedded in a host debt instrument (for example, a dual
currency bond) is closely related to the host debt instrument. Such a derivative is not separated from the
host instrument because LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates requires foreign
currency gains and losses on monetary items to be recognised in profit or loss.

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
73A
(d) An embedded foreign currency derivative in a host contract that is an insurance contract or not a
financial instrument (such as a contract for the purchase or sale of a non-financial item where the price
is denominated in a foreign currency) is closely related to the host contract provided it is not leveraged,
does not contain an option feature, and requires payments denominated in one of the following currencies:
(i) the functional currency of any substantial party to that contract;
(ii) the currency in which the price of the related good or service that is acquired or delivered is
routinely denominated in commercial transactions around the world (such as the US dollar for
crude oil transactions); or
(iii) a currency that is commonly used in contracts to purchase or sell non-financial items in the
economic environment in which the transaction takes place (eg a relatively stable and liquid
currency that is commonly used in local business transactions or external trade).
(e) An embedded prepayment option in an interest-only or principal-only strip is closely related to the host
contract provided the host contract (i) initially resulted from separating the right to receive contractual
cash flows of a financial instrument that, in and of itself, did not contain an embedded derivative, and (ii)
does not contain any terms not present in the original host debt contract.
(f) An embedded derivative in a host lease contract is closely related to the host contract if the embedded
derivative is (i) an inflation-related index such as an index of lease payments to a consumer price index
(provided that the lease is not leveraged and the index relates to inflation in the entity’s own economic
environment), (ii) contingent rentals based on related sales or (iii) contingent rentals based on variable
interest rates.
(g) A unit-linking feature embedded in a host financial instrument or host insurance contract is closely
related to the host instrument or host contract if the unit-denominated payments are measured at current
unit values that reflect the fair values of the assets of the fund. A unit-linking feature is a contractual term
that requires payments denominated in units of an internal or external investment fund.
(h) A derivative embedded in an insurance contract is closely related to the host insurance contract if the
embedded derivative and host insurance contract are so interdependent that an entity cannot measure
the embedded derivative separately (ie without considering the host contract).
Instruments Containing Embedded Derivatives
B4.3.9 As noted in paragraph B4.3.1, when an entity becomes a party to a hybrid contract with a host that is not an
asset within the scope of this Standard and with one or more embedded derivatives, paragraph 4.3.3 requires
the entity to identify any such embedded derivative, assess whether it is required to be separated from the host
contract and, for those that are required to be separated, measure the derivatives at fair value at initial recognition
and subsequently. These requirements can be more complex, or result in less reliable measures, than measuring
the entire instrument at fair value through profit or loss. For that reason this Standard permits the entire hybrid
contract to be designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
B4.3.10 Such designation may be used whether paragraph 4.3.3 requires the embedded derivatives to be separated from
the host contract or prohibits such separation. However, paragraph 4.3.5 would not justify designating the
hybrid contract as at fair value through profit or loss in the cases set out in paragraph 4.3.5(a) and (b) because
doing so would not reduce complexity or increase reliability.

<!-- page 74 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
74A
Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
B4.3.11 In accordance with paragraph 4.3.3, an entity shall assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be
separated from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative when the entity first becomes a party to the
contract. Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that
significantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, in which case
reassessment is required. An entity determines whether a modification to cash flows is significant by considering
the extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the embedded derivative, the host contract
or both have changed and whether the change is significant relative to the previously expected cash flows on
the contract.
B4.3.12 Paragraph B4.3.11 does not apply to embedded derivatives in contracts acquired in:
(a) a business combination (as defined in SLFRS 3 Business Combinations);
(b) a combination of entities or businesses under common control as described in paragraphs B1–B4 of
SLFRS 3; or
(c) the formation of a joint venture as defined in SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
or their possible reassessment at the date of acquisition.
3
Reclassification of Financial Assets (Section 4.4)
Reclassification of Financial Assets
B4.4.1 Paragraph 4.4.1 requires an entity to reclassify financial assets if the entity changes its business model for
managing those financial assets. Such changes are expected to be very infrequent. Such changes are determined
by the entity’s senior management as a result of external or internal changes and must be significant to the
entity’s operations and demonstrable to external parties. Accordingly, a change in an entity’s business model
will occur only when an entity either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations;
for example, when the entity has acquired, disposed of or terminated a business line. Examples of a change in
business model include the following:
(a) An entity has a portfolio of commercial loans that it holds to sell in the short term. The entity acquires a
company that manages commercial loans and has a business model that holds the loans in order to
collect the contractual cash flows. The portfolio of commercial loans is no longer for sale, and the
portfolio is now managed together with the acquired commercial loans and all are held to collect the
contractual cash flows.
(b) A financial services firm decides to shut down its retail mortgage business. That business no longer
accepts new business and the financial services firm is actively marketing its mortgage loan portfolio for
sale.
B4.4.2 A change in the objective of the entity’s business model must be effected before the reclassification date. For
example, if a financial services firm decides on 15th February to shut down its retail mortgage business and
hence must reclassify all affected financial assets on 1st April (ie the first day of the entity’s next reporting
period), the entity must not accept new retail mortgage business or otherwise engage in activities consistent
with its former business model after 15th February.
3 SLFRS 3 addresses the acquisition of contracts with embedded derivtives in a business combination.

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
75A
B 4.4.3 The following are not changes in business model:
(a) a change in intention related to particular financial assets (even in circumstances of significant changes
in market conditions).
(b) the temporary disappearance of a particular market for financial assets.
(c) a transfer of financial assets between parts of the entity with different business models.
Measurement (Chapter 5)
Initial Measurement (Section 5.1)
B5.1.1 The fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transaction price (ie the fair value of
the consideration given or received, see also paragraph B5.1.2A and SLFRS 13). However, if part of the
consideration given or received is for something other than the financial instrument, an entity shall measure the
fair value of the financial instrument. For example, the fair value of a long-term loan or receivable that carries no
interest can be measured as the present value of all future cash receipts discounted using the prevailing market
rate(s) of interest for a similar instrument (similar as to currency, term, type of interest rate and other factors)
with a similar credit rating. Any additional amount lent is an expense or a reduction of income unless it qualifies
for recognition as some other type of asset.
B5.1.2 If an entity originates a loan that bears an off-market interest rate (eg 5 per cent when the market rate for similar
loans is 8 per cent), and receives an upfront fee as compensation, the entity recognises the loan at its fair value,
ie net of the fee it receives.
B5.1.2A The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transaction
price (ie the fair value of the consideration given or received, see also SLFRS 13). If an entity determines that the
fair value at initial recognition differs from the transaction price as mentioned in paragraph 5.1.1A, the entity
shall account for that instrument at that date as follows:
(a) at the measurement required by paragraph 5.1.1 if that fair value is evidenced by a quoted price in an
active market for an identical asset or liability (ie a Level 1 input) or based on a valuation technique that
uses only data from observable markets. An entity shall recognise the difference between the fair value
at initial recognition and the transaction price as a gain or loss.
(b) in all other cases, at the measurement required by paragraph 5.1.1, adjusted to defer the difference
between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price. After initial recognition, the entity
shall recognise that deferred difference as a gain or loss only to the extent that it arises from a change in
a factor (including time) that market participants would take into account when pricing the asset or
liability.
Subsequent Measurement (Sections 5.2 and 5.3)
B5.2.1 If a financial instrument that was previously recognised as a financial asset is measured at fair value through
profit or loss and its fair value decreases below zero, it is a financial liability measured in accordance with
paragraph 4.2.1. However, hybrid contracts with hosts that are assets within the scope of this Standard are
always measured in accordance with paragraph 4.3.2.
B5.2.2 The following example illustrates the accounting for transaction costs on the initial and subsequent measurement
of a financial asset measured at fair value with changes through other comprehensive income in accordance
with either paragraph 5.7.5 or 4.1.2A. An entity acquires a financial asset for Rs.100 plus a purchase commission

<!-- page 76 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
76A
of Rs.2. Initially, the entity recognises the asset at Rs.102. The reporting period ends one day later, when the
quoted market price of the asset is Rs.100. If the asset were sold, a commission of Rs.3 would be paid. On that
date, the entity measures the asset at Rs.100 (without regard to the possible commission on sale) and recognises
a loss of Rs.2 in other comprehensive income. If the financial asset is measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, the transaction costs are amortised to profit or
loss using the effective interest method.
B5.2.2A The subsequent measurement of a financial asset or financial liability and the subsequent recognition of gains
and losses described in paragraph B5.1.2A shall be consistent with the requirements of this Standard.
Investments in Equity iInstruments and Contracts on Those Investments
B5.2.3 All investments in equity instruments and contracts on those instruments must be measured at fair value.
However, in limited circumstances, cost may be an appropriate estimate of fair value. That may be the case if
insufficient more recent information is available to measure fair value, or if there is a wide range of possible fair
value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range.
B5.2.4 Indicators that cost might not be representative of fair value include:
(a) a significant change in the performance of the investee compared with budgets, plans or milestones.
(b) changes in expectation that the investee’s technical product milestones will be achieved.
(c) a significant change in the market for the investee’s equity or its products or potential products.
(d) a significant change in the global economy or the economic environment in which the investee operates.
(e) a significant change in the performance of comparable entities, or in the valuations implied by the
overall market.
(f) internal matters of the investee such as fraud, commercial disputes, litigation, changes in management
or strategy.
(g) evidence from external transactions in the investee’s equity, either by the investee (such as a fresh issue
of equity), or by transfers of equity instruments between third parties.
B5.2.5 The list in paragraph B5.2.4 is not exhaustive. An entity shall use all information about the performance and
operations of the investee that becomes available after the date of initial recognition. To the extent that any
such relevant factors exist, they may indicate that cost might not be representative of fair value. In such cases,
the entity must measure fair value.
B5.2.6 Cost is never the best estimate of fair value for investments in quoted equity instruments (or contracts on
quoted equity instruments).
Amortised Cost Measurement (Section 5.4)
Effective Interest Method
B5.4.1 In applying the effective interest method, an entity identifies fees that are an integral part of the effective
interest rate of a financial instrument. The description of fees for financial services may not be indicative of the
nature and substance of the services provided. Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a
financial instrument are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate, unless the financial instrument is

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
77A
measured at fair value, with the change in fair value being recognised in profit or loss. In those cases, the fees
are recognised as revenue or expense when the instrument is initially recognised.
B5.4.2 Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument include:
(a) origination fees received by the entity relating to the creation or acquisition of a financial asset. Such
fees may include compensation for activities such as evaluating the borrower’s financial condition,
evaluating and recording guarantees, collateral and other security arrangements, negotiating the terms
of the instrument, preparing and processing documents and closing the transaction. These fees are an
integral part of generating an involvement with the resulting financial instrument.
(b) commitment fees received by the entity to originate a loan when the loan commitment is not measured in
accordance with paragraph 4.2.1(a) and it is probable that the entity will enter into a specific lending
arrangement. These fees are regarded as compensation for an ongoing involvement with the acquisition
of a financial instrument. If the commitment expires without the entity making the loan, the fee is recognised
as revenue on expiry.
(c) origination fees paid on issuing financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. These fees are an integral
part of generating an involvement with a financial liability. An entity distinguishes fees and costs that
are an integral part of the effective interest rate for the financial liability from origination fees and
transaction costs relating to the right to provide services, such as investment management services.
B5.4.3 Fees that are not an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument and are accounted for in
accordance with SLFRS 15 include:
(a) fees charged for servicing a loan;
(b) commitment fees to originate a loan when the loan commitment is not measured in accordance with
paragraph 4.2.1(a) and it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will be entered into; and
(c) loan syndication fees received by an entity that arranges a loan and retains no part of the loan package
for itself (or retains a part at the same effective interest rate for comparable risk as other participants).
B5.4.4 When applying the effective interest method, an entity generally amortises any fees, points paid or received,
transaction costs and other premiums or discounts that are included in the calculation of the effective interest
rate over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, a shorter period is used if this is the period to
which the fees, points paid or received, transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate. This will be the case
when the variable to which the fees, points paid or received, transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate is
repriced to market rates before the expected maturity of the financial instrument. In such a case, the appropriate
amortisation period is the period to the next such repricing date. For example, if a premium or discount on a
floating-rate financial instrument reflects the interest that has accrued on that financial instrument since the
interest was last paid, or changes in the market rates since the floating interest rate was reset to the market rates,
it will be amortised to the next date when the floating interest is reset to market rates. This is because the
premium or discount relates to the period to the next interest reset date because, at that date, the variable to
which the premium or discount relates (ie interest rates) is reset to the market rates. If, however, the premium or
discount results from a change in the credit spread over the floating rate specified in the financial instrument,
or other variables that are not reset to the market rates, it is amortised over the expected life of the financial
instrument.
B5.4.5 For floating-rate financial assets and floating-rate financial liabilities, periodic re-estimation of cash flows to
reflect the movements in the market rates of interest alters the effective interest rate. If a floating-rate financial
asset or a floating-rate financial liability is recognised initially at an amount equal to the principal receivable or
payable on maturity, re-estimating the future interest payments normally has no significant effect on the
carrying amount of the asset or the liability.

<!-- page 78 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
78A
B5.4.6 If an entity revises its estimates of payments or receipts (excluding modifications in accordance with paragraph
5.4.3 and changes in estimates of expected credit losses), it shall adjust the gross carrying amount of the
financial asset or amortised cost of a financial liability (or group of financial instruments) to reflect actual and
revised estimated contractual cash flows. The entity recalculates the gross carrying amount of the financial
asset or amortised cost of the financial liability as the present value of the estimated future contractual cash
flows that are discounted at the financial instrument’s original effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effective
interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable, the revised
effective interest rate calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. The adjustment is recognised in profit or
loss as income or expense.
B5.4.7 In some cases a financial asset is considered credit-impaired at initial recognition because the credit risk is very
high, and in the case of a purchase it is acquired at a deep discount. An entity is required to include the initial
expected credit losses in the estimated cash flows when calculating the credit-adjusted effective interest rate
for financial assets that are considered to be purchased or originated credit-impaired at initial recognition.
However, this does not mean that a credit-adjusted effective interest rate should be applied solely because the
financial asset has high credit risk at initial recognition.
Transaction Costs
B5.4.8 Transaction costs include fees and commission paid to agents (including employees acting as selling agents),
advisers, brokers and dealers, levies by regulatory agencies and security exchanges, and transfer taxes and
duties. Transaction costs do not include debt premiums or discounts, financing costs or internal administrative
or holding costs.
Write-off
B5.4.9 W rite-offs can relate to a financial asset in its entirety or to a portion of it. For example, an entity plans to enforce
the collateral on a financial asset and expects to recover no more than 30 per cent of the financial asset from the
collateral. If the entity has no reasonable prospects of recovering any further cash flows from the financial
asset, it should write off the remaining 70 per cent of the financial asset.
Impairment (Section 5.5)
Collective and Individual Assessment Basis
B5.5.1 In order to meet the objective of recognising lifetime expected credit losses for significant increases in credit
risk since initial recognition, it may be necessary to perform the assessment of significant increases in credit
risk on a collective basis by considering information that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk on,
for example, a group or sub-group of financial instruments. This is to ensure that an entity meets the objective
of recognising lifetime expected credit losses when there are significant increases in credit risk, even if evidence
of such significant increases in credit risk at the individual instrument level is not yet available.
B5.5.2 Lif etime expected credit losses are generally expected to be recognised before a financial instrument becomes
past due. Typically, credit risk increases significantly before a financial instrument becomes past due or other
lagging borrower-specific factors (for example, a modification or restructuring) are observed. Consequently
when reasonable and supportable information that is more forward-looking than past due information is available
without undue cost or effort, it must be used to assess changes in credit risk.
B5.5.3 However, depending on the nature of the financial instruments and the credit risk information available for
particular groups of financial instruments, an entity may not be able to identify significant changes in credit risk
for individual financial instruments before the financial instrument becomes past due. This may be the case for
financial instruments such as retail loans for which there is little or no updated credit risk information that is

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
79A
routinely obtained and monitored on an individual instrument until a customer breaches the contractual terms.
If changes in the credit risk for individual financial instruments are not captured before they become past due,
a loss allowance based only on credit information at an individual financial instrument level would not faithfully
represent the changes in credit risk since initial recognition.
B5.5.4 In some circumstances an entity does not have reasonable and supportable information that is available
without undue cost or effort to measure lifetime expected credit losses on an individual instrument basis. In that
case, lifetime expected credit losses shall be recognised on a collective basis that considers comprehensive
credit risk information. This comprehensive credit risk information must incorporate not only past due information
but also all relevant credit information, including forward-looking macroeconomic information, in order to
approximate the result of recognising lifetime expected credit losses when there has been a significant increase
in credit risk since initial recognition on an individual instrument level.
B5.5.5 For the purpose of determining significant increases in credit risk and recognising a loss allowance on a
collective basis, an entity can group financial instruments on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics with
the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in credit risk to be
identified on a timely basis. The entity should not obscure this information by grouping financial instruments
with different risk characteristics. Examples of shared credit risk characteristics may include, but are not limited
to, the:
(a) instrument type;
(b) credit risk ratings;
(c) collateral type;
(d) date of initial recognition;
(e) remaining term to maturity;
(f) industry;
(g) geographical location of the borrower; and
(h) the value of collateral relative to the financial asset if it has an impact on the probability of a default
occurring (for example, non-recourse loans in some jurisdictions or loan-to-value ratios).
B5.5.6 Paragraph 5.5.4 requires that lifetime expected credit losses are recognised on all financial instruments for which
there has been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. In order to meet this objective, if an
entity is not able to group financial instruments for which the credit risk is considered to have increased
significantly since initial recognition based on shared credit risk characteristics, the entity should recognise
lifetime expected credit losses on a portion of the financial assets for which credit risk is deemed to have
increased significantly. The aggregation of financial instruments to assess whether there are changes in credit
risk on a collective basis may change over time as new information becomes available on groups of, or individual,
financial instruments.
Timing of Recognising Lifetime Expected Credit Losses
B5.5.7 The assessment of whether lifetime expected credit losses should be recognised is based on significant increases
in the likelihood or risk of a default occurring since initial recognition (irrespective of whether a financial
instrument has been repriced to reflect an increase in credit risk) instead of on evidence of a financial asset
being credit-impaired at the reporting date or an actual default occurring. Generally, there will be a significant
increase in credit risk before a financial asset becomes credit-impaired or an actual default occurs.

<!-- page 80 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
80A
B5.5.8 For loan commitments, an entity considers changes in the risk of a default occurring on the loan to which a loan
commitment relates. For financial guarantee contracts, an entity considers the changes in the risk that the
specified debtor will default on the contract.
B5.5.9 The significance of a change in the credit risk since initial recognition depends on the risk of a default occurring
as at initial recognition. Thus, a given change, in absolute terms, in the risk of a default occurring will be more
significant for a financial instrument with a lower initial risk of a default occurring compared to a financial
instrument with a higher initial risk of a default occurring.
B5.5.10 The risk of a default occurring on financial instruments that have comparable credit risk is higher the longer the
expected life of the instrument; for example, the risk of a default occurring on an AAA- rated bond with an
expected life of 10 years is higher than that on an AAA- rated bond with an expected life of five years.
B5.5.11 Because of the relationship between the expected life and the risk of a default occurring, the change in credit
risk cannot be assessed simply by comparing the change in the absolute risk of a default occurring over time.
For example, if the risk of a default occurring for a financial instrument with an expected life of 10 years at initial
recognition is identical to the risk of a default occurring on that financial instrument when its expected life in a
subsequent period is only five years, that may indicate an increase in credit risk. This is because the risk of a
default occurring over the expected life usually decreases as time passes if the credit risk is unchanged and the
financial instrument is closer to maturity. However, for financial instruments that only have significant payment
obligations close to the maturity of the financial instrument the risk of a default occurring may not necessarily
decrease as time passes. In such a case, an entity should also consider other qualitative factors that would
demonstrate whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition.
B5.5.12 An entity may apply various approaches when assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has
increased significantly since initial recognition or when measuring expected credit losses. An entity may apply
different approaches for different financial instruments. An approach that does not include an explicit probability
of default as an input per se, such as a credit loss rate approach, can be consistent with the requirements in this
Standard, provided that an entity is able to separate the changes in the risk of a default occurring from changes
in other drivers of expected credit losses, such as collateral, and considers the following when making the
assessment:
(a) the change in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition;
(b) the expected life of the financial instrument; and
(c) reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort that may affect
credit risk.
B5.5.13 The methods used to determine whether credit risk has increased significantly on a financial instrument since
initial recognition should consider the characteristics of the financial instrument (or group of financial
instruments) and the default patterns in the past for comparable financial instruments. Despite the requirement
in paragraph 5.5.9, for financial instruments for which default patterns are not concentrated at a specific point
during the expected life of the financial instrument, changes in the risk of a default occurring over the next 12
months may be a reasonable approximation of the changes in the lifetime risk of a default occurring. In such
cases, an entity may use changes in the risk of a default occurring over the next 12 months to determine whether
credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, unless circumstances indicate that a lifetime
assessment is necessary.
B5.5.14 However, for some financial instruments, or in some circumstances, it may not be appropriate to use changes in
the risk of a default occurring over the next 12 months to determine whether lifetime expected credit losses
should be recognised. For example, the change in the risk of a default occurring in the next 12 months may not

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
81A
be a suitable basis for determining whether credit risk has increased on a financial instrument with a maturity of
more than 12 months when:
(a) the financial instrument only has significant payment obligations beyond the next 12 months;
(b) changes in relevant macroeconomic or other credit-related factors occur that are not adequately reflected
in the risk of a default occurring in the next 12 months; or
(c) changes in credit-related factors only have an impact on the credit risk of the financial instrument (or
have a more pronounced effect) beyond 12 months.
Determining Whether Credit Risk has Increased Significantly since Initial Recognition
B5.5.15 When determining whether the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses is required, an entity shall consider
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort and that may affect the
credit risk on a financial instrument in accordance with paragraph 5.5.17(c). An entity need not undertake an
exhaustive search for information when determining whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial
recognition.
B5.5.16 Credit risk analysis is a multifactor and holistic analysis; whether a specific factor is relevant, and its weight
compared to other factors, will depend on the type of product, characteristics of the financial instruments and
the borrower as well as the geographical region. An entity shall consider reasonable and supportable information
that is available without undue cost or effort and that is relevant for the particular financial instrument being
assessed. However, some factors or indicators may not be identifiable on an individual financial instrument
level. In such a case, the factors or indicators should be assessed for appropriate portfolios, groups of portfolios
or portions of a portfolio of financial instruments to determine whether the requirement in paragraph 5.5.3 for
the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses has been met.
B5.5.17 The following non-exhaustive list of information may be relevant in assessing changes in credit risk:
(a) significant changes in internal price indicators of credit risk as a result of a change in credit risk since
inception, including, but not limited to, the credit spread that would result if a particular financial
instrument or similar financial instrument with the same terms and the same counterparty were newly
originated or issued at the reporting date.
(b) other changes in the rates or terms of an existing financial instrument that would be significantly different
if the instrument was newly originated or issued at the reporting date (such as more stringent covenants,
increased amounts of collateral or guarantees, or higher income coverage) because of changes in the
credit risk of the financial instrument since initial recognition.
(c) significant changes in external market indicators of credit risk for a particular financial instrument or
similar financial instruments with the same expected life. Changes in market indicators of credit risk
include, but are not limited to:
(i) the credit spread;
(ii) the credit default swap prices for the borrower;
(iii)the length of time or the extent to which the fair value of a financial asset has been less than its
amortised cost; and
(iv) other market information related to the borrower, such as changes in the price of a borrower’s debt
and equity instruments.

<!-- page 82 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
82A
(d) an actual or expected significant change in the financial instrument’s external credit rating.
(e) an actual or expected internal credit rating downgrade for the borrower or decrease in behavioural
scoring used to assess credit risk internally. Internal credit ratings and internal behavioural scoring are
more reliable when they are mapped to external ratings or supported by default studies.
(f) existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are expected to
cause a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt obligations, such as an actual or
expected increase in interest rates or an actual or expected significant increase in unemployment rates.
(g) an actual or expected significant change in the operating results of the borrower. Examples include actual
or expected declining revenues or margins, increasing operating risks, working capital deficiencies,
decreasing asset quality, increased balance sheet leverage, liquidity, management problems or changes
in the scope of business or organisational structure (such as the discontinuance of a segment of the
business) that results in a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt obligations.
(h) significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same borrower.
(i) an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environment
of the borrower that results in a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt obligations,
such as a decline in the demand for the borrower’s sales product because of a shift in technology.
(j) significant changes in the value of the collateral supporting the obligation or in the quality of third-party
guarantees or credit enhancements, which are expected to reduce the borrower’s economic incentive to
make scheduled contractual payments or to otherwise have an effect on the probability of a default
occurring. For example, if the value of collateral declines because house prices decline, borrowers in
some jurisdictions have a greater incentive to default on their mortgages.
(k) a significant change in the quality of the guarantee provided by a shareholder (or an individual’s
parents) if the shareholder (or parents) have an incentive and financial ability to prevent default by
capital or cash infusion.
(l) significant changes, such as reductions in financial support from a parent entity or other affiliate or an
actual or expected significant change in the quality of credit enhancement, that are expected to reduce
the borrower’s economic incentive to make scheduled contractual payments. Credit quality enhancements
or support include the consideration of the financial condition of the guarantor and/or, for interests
issued in securitisations, whether subordinated interests are expected to be capable of absorbing expected
credit losses (for example, on the loans underlying the security).
(m) expected changes in the loan documentation including an expected breach of contract that may lead to
covenant waivers or amendments, interest payment holidays, interest rate step-ups, requiring additional
collateral or guarantees, or other changes to the contractual framework of the instrument.
(n) significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the borrower, including changes in
the payment status of borrowers in the group (for example, an increase in the expected number or extent
of delayed contractual payments or significant increases in the expected number of credit card borrowers
who are expected to approach or exceed their credit limit or who are expected to be paying the minimum
monthly amount).
(o) changes in the entity’s credit management approach in relation to the financial instrument; ie  based on
emerging indicators of changes in the credit risk of the financial instrument, the entity’s credit risk
management practice is expected to become more active or to be focused on managing the instrument,
including the instrument becoming more closely monitored or controlled, or the entity specifically
intervening with the borrower.

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
83A
(p) past due information, including the rebuttable presumption as set out in paragraph 5.5.11.
B5.5.18 In some cases, the qualitative and non-statistical quantitative information available may be sufficient to determine
that a financial instrument has met the criterion for the recognition of a loss allowance at an amount equal to
lifetime expected credit losses. That is, the information does not need to flow through a statistical model or
credit ratings process in order to determine whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk of the
financial instrument. In other cases, an entity may need to consider other information, including information
from its statistical models or credit ratings processes. Alternatively, the entity may base the assessment on both
types of information, ie qualitative factors that are not captured through the internal ratings process and a
specific internal rating category at the reporting date, taking into consideration the credit risk characteristics at
initial recognition, if both types of information are relevant.
More than 30 Days Past due Rebuttable Presumption
B5.5.19 The rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 is not an absolute indicator that lifetime expected credit losses
should be recognised, but is presumed to be the latest point at which lifetime expected credit losses should be
recognised even when using forward-looking information (including macroeconomic factors on a portfolio
level).
B5.5.20 An entity can rebut this presumption. However, it can do so only when it has reasonable and supportable
information available that demonstrates that even if contractual payments become more than 30 days past due,
this does not represent a significant increase in the credit risk of a financial instrument. For example when non-
payment was an administrative oversight, instead of resulting from financial difficulty of the borrower, or the
entity has access to historical evidence that demonstrates that there is no correlation between significant
increases in the risk of a default occurring and financial assets on which payments are more than 30 days past
due, but that evidence does identify such a correlation when payments are more than 60 days past due.
B5.5.21 An entity cannot align the timing of significant increases in credit risk and the recognition of lifetime expected
credit losses to when a financial asset is regarded as credit-impaired or an entity’s internal definition of default.
Financial Instruments That have Low Credit Risk at the Reporting Date
B5.5.22 The credit risk on a financial instrument is considered low for the purposes of paragraph 5.5.10, if the financial
instrument has a low risk of default, the borrower has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow
obligations in the near term and adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the longer term may,
but will not necessarily, reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow obligations.
Financial instruments are not considered to have low credit risk when they are regarded as having a low risk of
loss simply because of the value of collateral and the financial instrument without that collateral would not be
considered low credit risk. Financial instruments are also not considered to have low credit risk simply because
they have a lower risk of default than the entity’s other financial instruments or relative to the credit risk of the
jurisdiction within which an entity operates.
B5.5.23 To determine whether a financial instrument has low credit risk, an entity may use its internal credit risk ratings
or other methodologies that are consistent with a globally understood definition of low credit risk and that
consider the risks and the type of financial instruments that are being assessed. An external rating of ‘investment
grade’ is an example of a financial instrument that may be considered as having low credit risk. However,
financial instruments are not required to be externally rated to be considered to have low credit risk. They
should, however, be considered to have low credit risk from a market participant perspective taking into
account all of the terms and conditions of the financial instrument.
B5.5.24 Lif etime expected credit losses are not recognised on a financial instrument simply because it was considered
to have low credit risk in the previous reporting period and is not considered to have low credit risk at the

<!-- page 84 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
84A
reporting date. In such a case, an entity shall determine whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk since initial recognition and thus whether lifetime expected credit losses are required to be recognised in
accordance with paragraph 5.5.3.
Modifications
B5.5.25 In some circumstances, the renegotiation or modification of the contractual cash flows of a financial asset can
lead to the derecognition of the existing financial asset in accordance with this Standard. When the modification
of a financial asset results in the derecognition of the existing financial asset and the subsequent recognition
of the modified financial asset, the modified asset is considered a ‘new’ financial asset for the purposes of this
Standard.
B5.5.26 Accordingly the date of the modification shall be treated as the date of initial recognition of that financial asset
when applying the impairment requirements to the modified financial asset. This typically means measuring the
loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses until the requirements for the recognition
of lifetime expected credit losses in paragraph 5.5.3 are met. However, in some unusual circumstances following
a modification that results in derecognition of the original financial asset, there may be evidence that the
modified financial asset is credit-impaired at initial recognition, and thus, the financial asset should be recognised
as an originated credit-impaired financial asset. This might occur, for example, in a situation in which there was
a substantial modification of a distressed asset that resulted in the derecognition of the original financial asset.
In such a case, it may be possible for the modification to result in a new financial asset which is credit impaired
at initial recognition.
B5.5.27 If the contractual cash flows on a financial asset have been renegotiated or otherwise modified, but the financial
asset is not derecognised, that financial asset is not automatically considered to have lower credit risk. An
entity shall assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition on the
basis of all reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. This includes
historical and forward-looking information and an assessment of the credit risk over the expected life of the
financial asset, which includes information about the circumstances that led to the modification. Evidence that
the criteria for the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses are no longer met may include a history of up-
to-date and timely payment performance against the modified contractual terms. Typically a customer would
need to demonstrate consistently good payment behaviour over a period of time before the credit risk is
considered to have decreased. For example, a history of missed or incomplete payments would not typically be
erased by simply making one payment on time following a modification of the contractual terms.
Measurement of Expected Credit Losses
Expected Credit Losses
B5.5.28 Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (ie.  the present value of all cash
shortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the difference between the cash
flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to
receive. Because expected credit losses consider the amount and timing of payments, a credit loss arises even
if the entity expects to be paid in full but later than when contractually due.
B5.5.29 For financial assets, a credit loss is the present value of the difference between:
(a) the contractual cash flows that are due to an entity under the contract; and
(b) the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.

<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
85A
B5.5.30 For undrawn loan commitments, a credit loss is the present value of the difference between:
(a) the contractual cash flows that are due to the entity if the holder of the loan commitment draws down the
loan; and
(b) the cash flows that the entity expects to receive if the loan is drawn down.
B5.5.31 An entity’s estimate of expected credit losses on loan commitments shall be consistent with its expectations of
drawdowns on that loan commitment, ie. it shall consider the expected portion of the loan commitment that will
be drawn down within 12 months of the reporting date when estimating 12-month expected credit losses, and
the expected portion of the loan commitment that will be drawn down over the expected life of the loan
commitment when estimating lifetime expected credit losses.
B5.5.32 For a financial guarantee contract, the entity is required to make payments only in the event of a default by the
debtor in accordance with the terms of the instrument that is guaranteed. Accordingly, cash shortfalls are the
expected payments to reimburse the holder for a credit loss that it incurs less any amounts that the entity
expects to receive from the holder, the debtor or any other party. If the asset is fully guaranteed, the estimation
of cash shortfalls for a financial guarantee contract would be consistent with the estimations of cash shortfalls
for the asset subject to the guarantee.
B5.5.33 For a financial asset that is credit-impaired at the reporting date, but that is not a purchased or originated credit-
impaired financial asset, an entity shall measure the expected credit losses as the difference between the asset’s
gross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s
original effective interest rate. Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as an impairment gain or loss.
B5.5.34 When measuring a loss allowance for a lease receivable, the cash flows used for determining the expected credit
losses should be consistent with the cash flows used in measuring the lease receivable in accordance with
LKAS 17 Leases.
B5.5.35 An entity may use practical expedients when measuring expected credit losses if they are consistent with the
principles in paragraph 5.5.17. An example of a practical expedient is the calculation of the expected credit losses
on trade receivables using a provision matrix. The entity would use its historical credit loss experience (adjusted
as appropriate in accordance with paragraphs B5.5.51–B5.5.52) for trade receivables to estimate the 12-month
expected credit losses or the lifetime expected credit losses on the financial assets as relevant. A provision
matrix might, for example, specify fixed provision rates depending on the number of days that a trade receivable
is past due (for example, 1 per cent if not past due, 2 per cent if less than 30 days past due, 3 per cent if more than
30 days but less than 90 days past due, 20 per cent if 90–180 days past due etc). Depending on the diversity of
its customer base, the entity would use appropriate groupings if its historical credit loss experience shows
significantly different loss patterns for different customer segments. Examples of criteria that might be used to
group assets include geographical region, product type, customer rating, collateral or trade credit insurance
and type of customer (such as wholesale or retail).
Definition of Default
B5.5.36 Paragraph 5.5.9 requires that when determining whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased
significantly, an entity shall consider the change in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition.
B5.5.37 When defining default for the purposes of determining the risk of a default occurring, an entity shall apply a
default definition that is consistent with the definition used for internal credit risk management purposes for the
relevant financial instrument and consider qualitative indicators (for example, financial covenants) when
appropriate. However, there is a rebuttable presumption that default does not occur later than when a financial
asset is 90 days past due unless an entity has reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a
more lagging default criterion is more appropriate. The definition of default used for these purposes shall be

<!-- page 86 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
86A
applied consistently to all financial instruments unless information becomes available that demonstrates that
another default definition is more appropriate for a particular financial instrument.
Period over Which to Estimate Expected Credit Losses
B5.5.38 In accordance with paragraph 5.5.19, the maximum period over which expected credit losses shall be measured
is the maximum contractual period over which the entity is exposed to credit risk. For loan commitments and
financial guarantee contracts, this is the maximum contractual period over which an entity has a present
contractual obligation to extend credit.
B5.5.39 However, in accordance with paragraph 5.5.20, some financial instruments include both a loan and an undrawn
commitment component and the entity’s contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn
commitment does not limit the entity’s exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. For example,
revolving credit facilities, such as credit cards and overdraft facilities, can be contractually withdrawn by the
lender with as little as one day’s notice. However, in practice lenders continue to extend credit for a longer
period and may only withdraw the facility after the credit risk of the borrower increases, which could be too late
to prevent some or all of the expected credit losses. These financial instruments generally have the following
characteristics as a result of the nature of the financial instrument, the way in which the financial instruments
are managed, and the nature of the available information about significant increases in credit risk:
(a) the financial instruments do not have a fixed term or repayment structure and usually have a short
contractual cancellation period (for example, one day);
(b) the contractual ability to cancel the contract is not enforced in the normal day-to-day management of the
financial instrument and the contract may only be cancelled when the entity becomes aware of an
increase in credit risk at the facility level; and
(c) the financial instruments are managed on a collective basis.
B5.5.40 When determining the period over which the entity is expected to be exposed to credit risk, but for which
expected credit losses would not be mitigated by the entity’s normal credit risk management actions, an entity
should consider factors such as historical information and experience about:
(a) the period over which the entity was exposed to credit risk on similar financial instruments;
(b) the length of time for related defaults to occur on similar financial instruments following a significant
increase in credit risk; and
(c) the credit risk management actions that an entity expects to take once the credit risk on the financial
instrument has increased, such as the reduction or removal of undrawn limits.
Probability-weighted Outcome
B5.5.41 The purpose of estimating expected credit losses is neither to estimate a worst-case scenario nor to estimate the
best-case scenario. Instead, an estimate of expected credit losses shall always reflect the possibility that a
credit loss occurs and the possibility that no credit loss occurs even if the most likely outcome is no credit loss.
B5.5.42 Paragraph 5.5.17(a) requires the estimate of expected credit losses to reflect an unbiased and probability-
weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes. In practice, this may not need
to be a complex analysis. In some cases, relatively simple modelling may be sufficient, without the need for a
large number of detailed simulations of scenarios. For example, the average credit losses of a large group of
financial instruments with shared risk characteristics may be a reasonable estimate of the probability-weighted
amount. In other situations, the identification of scenarios that specify the amount and timing of the cash flows

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
87A
for particular outcomes and the estimated probability of those outcomes will probably be needed. In those
situations, the expected credit losses shall reflect at least two outcomes in accordance with paragraph 5.5.18.
B5.5.43 For lifetime expected credit losses, an entity shall estimate the risk of a default occurring on the financial
instrument during its expected life. 12-month expected credit losses are a portion of the lifetime expected credit
losses and represent the lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a default occurs in the 12 months after the
reporting date (or a shorter period if the expected life of a financial instrument is less than 12 months), weighted
by the probability of that default occurring. Thus, 12-month expected credit losses are neither the lifetime
expected credit losses that an entity will incur on financial instruments that it predicts will default in the next 12
months nor the cash shortfalls that are predicted over the next 12 months.
Time Value of Money
B5.5.44 Expected credit losses shall be discounted to the reporting date, not to the expected default or some other date,
using the effective interest rate determined at initial recognition or an approximation thereof. If a financial
instrument has a variable interest rate, expected credit losses shall be discounted using the current effective
interest rate determined in accordance with paragraph B5.4.5.
B5.5.45 For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, expected credit losses shall be discounted using
the credit-adjusted effective interest rate determined at initial recognition.
B5.5.46 Expected credit losses on lease receivables shall be discounted using the same discount rate used in the
measurement of the lease receivable in accordance with LKAS 17.
B5.5.47 The expected credit losses on a loan commitment shall be discounted using the effective interest rate, or an
approximation thereof, that will be applied when recognising the financial asset resulting from the loan
commitment. This is because for the purpose of applying the impairment requirements, a financial asset that is
recognised following a draw down on a loan commitment shall be treated as a continuation of that commitment
instead of as a new financial instrument. The expected credit losses on the financial asset shall therefore be
measured considering the initial credit risk of the loan commitment from the date that the entity became a party
to the irrevocable commitment.
B5.5.48 Expected credit losses on financial guarantee contracts or on loan commitments for which the effective interest
rate cannot be determined shall be discounted by applying a discount rate that reflects the current market
assessment of the time value of money and the risks that are specific to the cash flows but only if, and to the
extent that, the risks are taken into account by adjusting the discount rate instead of adjusting the cash
shortfalls being discounted.
Reasonable and Supportable Information
B5.5.49 For the purpose of this Standard, reasonable and supportable information is that which is reasonably available
at the reporting date without undue cost or effort, including information about past events, current conditions
and forecasts of future economic conditions. Information that is available for financial reporting purposes is
considered to be available without undue cost or effort.
B5.5.50 An entity is not required to incorporate forecasts of future conditions over the entire expected life of a financial
instrument. The degree of judgement that is required to estimate expected credit losses depends on the availability
of detailed information. As the forecast horizon increases, the availability of detailed information decreases and
the degree of judgement required to estimate expected credit losses increases. The estimate of expected credit
losses does not require a detailed estimate for periods that are far in the future—for such periods, an entity may
extrapolate projections from available, detailed information.

<!-- page 88 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
88A
B5.5.51 An entity need not undertake an exhaustive search for information but shall consider all reasonable and
supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort and that is relevant to the estimate of
expected credit losses, including the effect of expected prepayments. The information used shall include
factors that are specific to the borrower, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as
well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date. An entity may use various sources of data, that
may be both internal (entity-specific) and external. Possible data sources include internal historical credit loss
experience, internal ratings, credit loss experience of other entities and external ratings, reports and statistics.
Entities that have no, or insufficient, sources of entity-specific data may use peer group experience for the
comparable financial instrument (or groups of financial instruments).
B5.5.52 Historical information is an important anchor or base from which to measure expected credit losses. However,
an entity shall adjust historical data, such as credit loss experience, on the basis of current observable data to
reflect the effects of the current conditions and its forecasts of future conditions that did not affect the period
on which the historical data is based, and to remove the effects of the conditions in the historical period that are
not relevant to the future contractual cash flows. In some cases, the best reasonable and supportable information
could be the unadjusted historical information, depending on the nature of the historical information and when
it was calculated, compared to circumstances at the reporting date and the characteristics of the financial
instrument being considered. Estimates of changes in expected credit losses should reflect, and be directionally
consistent with, changes in related observable data from period to period (such as changes in unemployment
rates, property prices, commodity prices, payment status or other factors that are indicative of credit losses on
the financial instrument or in the group of financial instruments and in the magnitude of those changes). An
entity shall regularly review the methodology and assumptions used for estimating expected credit losses to
reduce any differences between estimates and actual credit loss experience.
B5.5.53 When using historical credit loss experience in estimating expected credit losses, it is important that information
about historical credit loss rates is applied to groups that are defined in a manner that is consistent with the
groups for which the historical credit loss rates were observed. Consequently,the method used shall enable
each group of financial assets to be associated with information about past credit loss experience in groups of
financial assets with similar risk characteristics and with relevant observable data that reflects current conditions.
B5.5.54 Expected credit losses reflect an entity’s own expectations of credit losses. However, when considering all
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort in estimating expected
credit losses, an entity should also consider observable market information about the credit risk of the particular
financial instrument or similar financial instruments.
Collateral
B5.5.55 For the purposes of measuring expected credit losses, the estimate of expected cash shortfalls shall reflect the
cash flows expected from collateral and other credit enhancements that are part of the contractual terms and are
not recognised separately by the entity. The estimate of expected cash shortfalls on a collateralised financial
instrument reflects the amount and timing of cash flows that are expected from foreclosure on the collateral less
the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, irrespective of whether foreclosure is probable (ie the estimate
of expected cash flows considers the probability of a foreclosure and the cash flows that would result from it).
Consequently, any cash flows that are expected from the realisation of the collateral beyond the contractual
maturity of the contract should be included in this analysis. Any collateral obtained as a result of foreclosure is
not recognised as an asset that is separate from the collateralised financial instrument unless it meets the
relevant recognition criteria for an asset in this or other Standards.
Reclassification of Financial Assets (Section 5.6)
B5.6.1 If an entity reclassifies financial assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1, paragraph 5.6.1 requires that the
reclassification is applied prospectively from the reclassification date. Both the amortised cost measurement
category and the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category require that the effective

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
89A
interest rate is determined at initial recognition. Both of those measurement categories also require that the
impairment requirements are applied in the same way. Consequently, when an entity reclassifies a financial
asset between the amortised cost measurement category and the fair value through other comprehensive
income measurement category:
 (a) the recognition of interest revenue will not change and therefore the entity continues to use the same
effective interest rate.
 (b) the measurement of expected credit losses will not change because both measurement categories apply
the same impairment approach. However if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through
other comprehensive income measurement category and into the amortised cost measurement category,
a loss allowance would be recognised as an adjustment to the gross carrying amount of the financial
asset from the reclassification date. If a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement
category and into the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category, the loss
allowance would be derecognised (and thus would no longer be recognised as an adjustment to the
gross carrying amount) but instead would be recognised as an accumulated impairment amount (of an
equal amount) in other comprehensive income and would be disclosed from the reclassification date.
 B5.6.2 However, an entity is not required to separately recognise interest revenue or impairment gains or losses for a
financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss. Consequently, when an entity reclassifies a
financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement category, the effective interest rate is
determined on the basis of the fair value of the asset at the reclassification date. In addition, for the purposes
of applying Section 5.5 to the financial asset from the reclassification date, the date of the reclassification is
treated as the date of initial recognition.
Gains and Losses (Section 5.7)
B5.7.1 Paragraph 5.7.5 permits an entity to make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income
changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument that is not held for trading. This election is
made on an instrument-by-instrument (ie share-by-share) basis. Amounts presented in other comprehensive
income shall not be subsequently transferred to profit or loss. However, the entity may transfer the cumulative
gain or loss within equity. Dividends on such investments are recognised in profit or loss in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.6 unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
 B5.7.1A Unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies, paragraph 4.1.2A requires that a financial asset is measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income if the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding and the asset is held in a business
model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. This
measurement category recognises information in profit or loss as if the financial asset is measured at amortised
cost, while the financial asset is measured in the statement of financial position at fair value. Gains or losses,
other than those that are recognised in profit or loss in accordance with paragraphs 5.7.10–5.7.11, are recognised
in other comprehensive income. When these financial assets are derecognised, cumulative gains or losses
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. This reflects the gain or
loss that would have been recognised in profit or loss upon derecognition if the financial asset had been
measured at amortised cost.
 B5.7.2 An entity applies LKAS 21 to financial assets and financial liabilities that are monetary items in accordance with
LKAS 21 and denominated in a foreign currency. LKAS 21 requires any foreign exchange gains and losses on
monetary assets and monetary liabilities to be recognised in profit or loss. An exception is a monetary item that
is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge (see paragraph 6.5.11), a hedge of a net investment
(see paragraph 6.5.13) or a fair value hedge of an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present
changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 (see paragraph 6.5.8).

<!-- page 90 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
90A
 B5.7.2A For the purpose of recognising foreign exchange gains and losses under LKAS 21, a financial asset measured
at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A is treated as a monetary
item. Accordingly, such a financial asset is treated as an asset measured at amortised cost in the foreign
currency. Exchange differences on the amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss and other changes in the
carrying amount are recognised in accordance with paragraph 5.7.10.
 B5.7.3 Paragraph 5.7.5 permits an entity to make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income
subsequent changes in the fair value of particular investments in equity instruments. Such an investment is not
a monetary item. Accordingly, the gain or loss that is presented in other comprehensive income in accordance
with paragraph 5.7.5 includes any related foreign exchange component.
 B5.7.4 If there is a hedging relationship between a non-derivative monetary asset and a non-derivative monetary
liability, changes in the foreign currency component of those financial instruments are presented in profit or
loss.
Liabilities Designated as at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
B5.7.5 When an entity designates a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss, it must determine whether
presenting in other comprehensive income the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk would create or
enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. An accounting mismatch would be created or enlarged if
presenting the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income would result in a
greater mismatch in profit or loss than if those amounts were presented in profit or loss.
 B5.7.6 To make that determination, an entity must assess whether it expects that the effects of changes in the liability’s
credit risk will be offset in profit or loss by a change in the fair value of another financial instrument measured
at fair value through profit or loss. Such an expectation must be based on an economic relationship between the
characteristics of the liability and the characteristics of the other financial instrument.
 B5.7.7 That determination is made at initial recognition and is not reassessed. For practical purposes the entity need
not enter into all of the assets and liabilities giving rise to an accounting mismatch at exactly the same time. A
reasonable delay is permitted provided that any remaining transactions are expected to occur. An entity must
apply consistently its methodology for determining whether presenting in other comprehensive income the
effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
However, an entity may use different methodologies when there are different economic relationships between
the characteristics of the liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss and the characteristics of
the other financial instruments. SLFRS 7 requires an entity to provide qualitative disclosures in the notes to the
financial statements about its methodology for making that determination.
 B5.7.8 If such a mismatch would be created or enlarged, the entity is required to present all changes in fair value
(including the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) in profit or loss. If such a mismatch would not
be created or enlarged, the entity is required to present the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other
comprehensive income.
 B5.7.9 Amounts presented in other comprehensive income shall not be subsequently transferred to profit or loss.
However, the entity may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.
 B5.7.10 The following example describes a situation in which an accounting mismatch would be created in profit or loss
if the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability were presented in other comprehensive income. A
mortgage bank provides loans to customers and funds those loans by selling bonds with matching characteristics
(eg amount outstanding, repayment profile, term and currency) in the market. The contractual terms of the loan
permit the mortgage customer to prepay its loan (ie satisfy its obligation to the bank) by buying the corresponding
bond at fair value in the market and delivering that bond to the mortgage bank. As a result of that contractual

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
91A
prepayment right, if the credit quality of the bond worsens (and, thus, the fair value of the mortgage bank’s
liability decreases), the fair value of the mortgage bank’s loan asset also decreases. The change in the fair value
of the asset reflects the mortgage customer’s contractual right to prepay the mortgage loan by buying the
underlying bond at fair value (which, in this example, has decreased) and delivering the bond to the mortgage
bank. Consequently, the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability (the bond) will be offset in profit or
loss by a corresponding change in the fair value of a financial asset (the loan). If the effects of changes in the
liability’s credit risk were presented in other comprehensive income there would be an accounting mismatch in
profit or loss. Consequently, the mortgage bank is required to present all changes in fair value of the liability
(including the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk) in profit or loss.
 B5.7.11 In the example in paragraph B5.7.10, there is a contractual linkage between the effects of changes in the credit
risk of the liability and changes in the fair value of the financial asset (ie as a result of the mortgage customer’s
contractual right to prepay the loan by buying the bond at fair value and delivering the bond to the mortgage
bank). However, an accounting mismatch may also occur in the absence of a contractual linkage.
 B5.7.12 For the purposes of applying the requirements in paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8, an accounting mismatch is not
caused solely by the measurement method that an entity uses to determine the effects of changes in a liability’s
credit risk. An accounting mismatch in profit or loss would arise only when the effects of changes in the
liability’s credit risk (as defined in SLFRS 7) are expected to be offset by changes in the fair value of another
financial instrument. A mismatch that arises solely as a result of the measurement method (ie because an entity
does not isolate changes in a liability’s credit risk from some other changes in its fair value) does not affect the
determination required by paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8. For example, an entity may not isolate changes in a
liability’s credit risk from changes in liquidity risk. If the entity presents the combined effect of both factors in
other comprehensive income, a mismatch may occur because changes in liquidity risk may be included in the
fair value measurement of the entity’s financial assets and the entire fair value change of those assets is
presented in profit or loss. However, such a mismatch is caused by measurement imprecision, not the offsetting
relationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 and, therefore, does not affect the determination required by
paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8.
The Meaning of ‘Credit Risk’ (paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8)
B5.7.13 SLFRS 7 defines credit risk as ‘the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the
other party by failing to discharge an obligation’. The requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a) relates to the risk that
the issuer will fail to perform on that particular liability. It does not necessarily relate to the creditworthiness of
the issuer. For example, if an entity issues a collateralised liability and a non-collateralised liability that are
otherwise identical, the credit risk of those two liabilities will be different, even though they are issued by the
same entity. The credit risk on the collateralised liability will be less than the credit risk of the non-collateralised
liability. The credit risk for a collateralised liability may be close to zero.
 B5.7.14 For the purposes of applying the requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a), credit risk is different from asset-specific
performance risk. Asset-specific performance risk is not related to the risk that an entity will fail to discharge a
particular obligation but instead it is related to the risk that a single asset or a group of assets will perform
poorly (or not at all).
 B5.7.15 The following are examples of asset-specific performance risk:
 (a) a liability with a unit-linking feature whereby the amount due to investors is contractually determined on
the basis of the performance of specified assets. The effect of that unit-linking feature on the fair value of
the liability is asset-specific performance risk, not credit risk.
 (b) a liability issued by a structured entity with the following characteristics. The entity is legally isolated so
the assets in the entity are ring-fenced solely for the benefit of its investors, even in the event of
bankruptcy. The entity enters into no other transactions and the assets in the entity cannot be

<!-- page 92 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
92A
hypothecated. Amounts are due to the entity’s investors only if the ring-fenced assets generate cash
flows. Thus, changes in the fair value of the liability primarily reflect changes in the fair value of the
assets. The effect of the performance of the assets on the fair value of the liability is asset-specific
performance risk, not credit risk.
Determining the Effects of Changes in Credit Risk
B5.7.16 For the purposes of applying the requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a), an entity shall determine the amount of
change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability
either:
 (a) as the amount of change in its fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give
rise to market risk (see paragraphs B5.7.17 and B5.7.18); or
 (b) using an alternative method the entity believes more faithfully represents the amount of change in the
liability’s fair value that is attributable to changes in its credit risk.
 B5.7.17 Changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk include changes in a benchmark interest rate, the price
of another entity’s financial instrument, a commodity price, a foreign exchange rate or an index of prices or rates.
 B5.7.18 If the only significant relevant changes in market conditions for a liability are changes in an observed (benchmark)
interest rate, the amount in paragraph B5.7.16(a) can be estimated as follows:
 (a) First, the entity computes the liability’s internal rate of return at the start of the period using the fair value
of the liability and the liability’s contractual cash flows at the start of the period. It deducts from this rate
of return the observed (benchmark) interest rate at the start of the period, to arrive at an instrument-
specific component of the internal rate of return.
 (b) Next, the entity calculates the present value of the cash flows associated with the liability using the
liability’s contractual cash flows at the end of the period and a discount rate equal to the sum of (i) the
observed (benchmark) interest rate at the end of the period and (ii) the instrument-specific component of
the internal rate of return as determined in (a).
 (c) The difference between the fair value of the liability at the end of the period and the amount determined
in (b) is the change in fair value that is not attributable to changes in the observed (benchmark) interest
rate. This is the amount to be presented in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph
5.7.7(a).
 B5.7.19 The example in paragraph B5.7.18 assumes that changes in fair value arising from factors other than changes in
the instrument’s credit risk or changes in observed (benchmark) interest rates are not significant. This method
would not be appropriate if changes in fair value arising from other factors are significant. In those cases, an
entity is required to use an alternative method that more faithfully measures the effects of changes in the
liability’s credit risk (see paragraph B5.7.16(b)). For example, if the instrument in the example contains an
embedded derivative, the change in fair value of the embedded derivative is excluded in determining the amount
to be presented in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.7(a).
 B5.7.20 As with all fair value measurements, an entity’s measurement method for determining the portion of the change
in the liability’s fair value that is attributable to changes in its credit risk must make maximum use of relevant
observable inputs and minimum use of unobservable inputs.

<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
93A
Hedge Accounting (Chapter 6)
Hedging Instruments (Section 6.2)
Qualifying Instruments
B6.2.1 Derivatives that are embedded in hybrid contracts, but that are not separately accounted for, cannot be
designated as separate hedging instruments.
 B6.2.2 An entity’s own equity instruments are not financial assets or financial liabilities of the entity and therefore
cannot be designated as hedging instruments.
 B6.2.3 For hedges of foreign currency risk, the foreign currency risk component of a non-derivative financial instrument
is determined in accordance with LKAS 21.
Written Options
B6.2.4 This Standard does not restrict the circumstances in which a derivative that is measured at fair value through
profit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument, except for some written options. A written option
does not qualify as a hedging instrument unless it is designated as an offset to a purchased option, including
one that is embedded in another financial instrument (for example, a written call option used to hedge a callable
liability).
Designation of Hedging Instruments
B6.2.5 For hedges other than hedges of foreign currency risk, when an entity designates a non-derivative financial
asset or a non-derivative financial liability measured at fair value through profit or loss as a hedging instrument,
it may only designate the non-derivative financial instrument in its entirety or a proportion of it.
 B6.2.6 A single hedging instrument may be designated as a hedging instrument of more than one type of risk, provided
that there is a specific designation of the hedging instrument and of the different risk positions as hedged items.
Those hedged items can be in different hedging relationships.
Hedged Items (Section 6.3)
Qualifying Items
B6.3.1 A firm commitment to acquire a business in a business combination cannot be a hedged item, except for foreign
currency risk, because the other risks being hedged cannot be specifically identified and measured. Those
other risks are general business risks.
 B6.3.2 An equity method investment cannot be a hedged item in a fair value hedge. This is because the equity method
recognises in profit or loss the investor’s share of the investee’s profit or loss, instead of changes in the
investment’s fair value. For a similar reason, an investment in a consolidated subsidiary cannot be a hedged
item in a fair value hedge. This is because consolidation recognises in profit or loss the subsidiary’s profit or
loss, instead of changes in the investment’s fair value. A hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is
different because it is a hedge of the foreign currency exposure, not a fair value hedge of the change in the value
of the investment.
 B6.3.3 Paragraph 6.3.4 permits an entity to designate as hedged items aggregated exposures that are a combination of
an exposure and a derivative. When designating such a hedged item, an entity assesses whether the aggregated
exposure combines an exposure with a derivative so that it creates a different aggregated exposure that is

<!-- page 94 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
94A
managed as one exposure for a particular risk (or risks). In that case, the entity may designate the hedged item
on the basis of the aggregated exposure. For example:
 (a) an entity may hedge a given quantity of highly probable coffee purchases in 15 months’ time against
price risk (based on US dollars) using a 15-month futures contract for coffee. The highly probable coffee
purchases and the futures contract for coffee in combination can be viewed as a 15-month fixed-amount
US dollar foreign currency risk exposure for risk management purposes (ie. like any fixed-amount US
dollar cash outflow in 15 months’ time).
 (b) an entity may hedge the foreign currency risk for the entire term of a 10-year fixed-rate debt denominated
in a foreign currency. However, the entity requires fixed-rate exposure in its functional currency only for
a short to medium term (say two years) and floating rate exposure in its functional currency for the
remaining term to maturity. At the end of each of the two-year intervals (ie. on a two-year rolling basis)
the entity fixes the next two years’ interest rate exposure (if the interest level is such that the entity
wants to fix interest rates). In such a situation an entity may enter into a 10-year fixed-to-floating cross-
currency interest rate swap that swaps the fixed-rate foreign currency debt into a variable-rate functional
currency exposure. This is overlaid with a two-year interest rate swap that—on the basis of the functional
currency—swaps variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. In effect, the fixed-rate foreign currency debt
and the 10-year fixed-to-floating cross-currency interest rate swap in combination are viewed as a 10-
year variable-rate debt functional currency exposure for risk management purposes.
B6.3.4 When designating the hedged item on the basis of the aggregated exposure, an entity considers the combined
effect of the items that constitute the aggregated exposure for the purpose of assessing hedge effectiveness
and measuring hedge ineffectiveness. However, the items that constitute the aggregated exposure remain
accounted for separately. This means that, for example:
 (a) derivatives that are part of an aggregated exposure are recognised as separate assets or liabilities
measured at fair value; and
 (b) if a hedging relationship is designated between the items that constitute the aggregated exposure, the
way in which a derivative is included as part of an aggregated exposure must be consistent with the
designation of that derivative as the hedging instrument at the level of the aggregated exposure. For
example, if an entity excludes the forward element of a derivative from its designation as the hedging
instrument for the hedging relationship between the items that constitute the aggregated exposure, it
must also exclude the forward element when including that derivative as a hedged item as part of the
aggregated exposure. Otherwise, the aggregated exposure shall include a derivative, either in its entirety
or a proportion of it.
B6.3.5 Paragraph 6.3.6 states that in consolidated financial statements the foreign currency risk of a highly probable
forecast intragroup transaction may qualify as a hedged item in a cash flow hedge, provided that the transaction
is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and
that the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss. For this purpose an entity can be a parent,
subsidiary, associate, joint arrangement or branch. If the foreign currency risk of a forecast intragroup transaction
does not affect consolidated profit or loss, the intragroup transaction cannot qualify as a hedged item. This is
usually the case for royalty payments, interest payments or management charges between members of the same
group, unless there is a related external transaction. However, when the foreign currency risk of a forecast
intragroup transaction will affect consolidated profit or loss, the intragroup transaction can qualify as a hedged
item. An example is forecast sales or purchases of inventories between members of the same group if there is an
onward sale of the inventory to a party external to the group. Similarly, a forecast intragroup sale of plant and
equipment from the group entity that manufactured it to a group entity that will use the plant and equipment in
its operations may affect consolidated profit or loss. This could occur, for example, because the plant and
equipment will be depreciated by the purchasing entity and the amount initially recognised for the plant and
equipment may change if the forecast intragroup transaction is denominated in a currency other than the
functional currency of the purchasing entity.

<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
95A
B6.3.6 If a hedge of a forecast intragroup transaction qualifies for hedge accounting, any gain or loss is recognised in,
and taken out of, other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11. The relevant period or
periods during which the foreign currency risk of the hedged transaction affects profit or loss is when it affects
consolidated profit or loss.
Designation of Hedged Items
B6.3.7 A component is a hedged item that is less than the entire item. Consequently, a component reflects only some
of the risks of the item of which it is a part or reflects the risks only to some extent (for example, when
designating a proportion of an item).
Risk Components
B6.3.8 To be eligible for designation as a hedged item, a risk component must be a separately identifiable component
of the financial or the non-financial item, and the changes in the cash flows or the fair value of the item
attributable to changes in that risk component must be reliably measurable.
 B6.3.9 When identifying what risk components qualify for designation as a hedged item, an entity assesses such risk
components within the context of the particular market structure to which the risk or risks relate and in which the
hedging activity takes place. Such a determination requires an evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances,
which differ by risk and market.
B6.3.10 When designating risk components as hedged items, an entity considers whether the risk components are
explicitly specified in a contract (contractually specified risk components) or whether they are implicit in the fair
value or the cash flows of an item of which they are a part (non-contractually specified risk components).
Non-contractually specified risk components can relate to items that are not a contract (for example, forecast
transactions) or contracts that do not explicitly specify the component (for example, a firm commitment that
includes only one single price instead of a pricing formula that references different underlying). For example:
 (a) Entity A has a long-term supply contract for natural gas that is priced using a contractually specified
formula that references commodities and other factors (for example, gas oil, fuel oil and other components
such as transport charges). Entity A hedges the gas oil component in that supply contract using a gas
oil forward contract. Because the gas oil component is specified by the terms and conditions of the
supply contract it is a contractually specified risk component. Hence, because of the pricing formula,
Entity A concludes that the gas oil price exposure is separately identifiable. At the same time, there is a
market for gas oil forward contracts. Hence, Entity A concludes that the gas oil price exposure is reliably
measurable. Consequently, the gas oil price exposure in the supply contract is a risk component that is
eligible for designation as a hedged item.
 (b) Entity B hedges its future coffee purchases based on its production forecast. Hedging starts up to 15
months before delivery for part of the forecast purchase volume. Entity B increases the hedged volume
over time (as the delivery date approaches). Entity B uses two different types of contracts to manage its
coffee price risk:
(i) exchange-traded coffee futures contracts; and
(ii) cof fee supply contracts for Arabica coffee from Colombia delivered to a specific manufacturing
site. These contracts price a tonne of coffee based on the exchange-traded coffee futures contract
price plus a fixed price differential plus a variable logistics services charge using a pricing formula.
The coffee supply contract is an executory contract in accordance with which Entity B takes actual
delivery of coffee.

<!-- page 96 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
96A
For deliveries that relate to the current harvest, entering into the coffee supply contracts allows Entity
B to fix the price differential between the actual coffee quality purchased (Arabica coffee from Colombia)
and the benchmark quality that is the underlying of the exchange-traded futures contract. However, for
deliveries that relate to the next harvest, the coffee supply contracts are not yet available, so the price
differential cannot be fixed. Entity B uses exchange-traded coffee futures contracts to hedge the
benchmark quality component of its coffee price risk for deliveries that relate to the current harvest as
well as the next harvest. Entity B determines that it is exposed to three different risks: coffee price risk
reflecting the benchmark quality, coffee price risk reflecting the difference (spread) between the price for
the benchmark quality coffee and the particular Arabica coffee from Colombia that it actually receives,
and the variable logistics costs. For deliveries related to the current harvest, after Entity B enters into a
coffee supply contract, the coffee price risk reflecting the benchmark quality is a contractually specified
risk component because the pricing formula includes an indexation to the exchange-traded coffee
futures contract price. Entity B concludes that this risk component is separately identifiable and reliably
measurable. For deliveries related to the next harvest, Entity B has not yet entered into any coffee
supply contracts (ie those deliveries are forecast transactions). Hence, the coffee price risk reflecting
the benchmark quality is a non-contractually specified risk component. Entity B’s analysis of the market
structure takes into account how eventual deliveries of the particular coffee that it receives are priced.
Hence, on the basis of this analysis of the market structure, Entity B concludes that the forecast
transactions also involve the coffee price risk that reflects the benchmark quality as a risk component
that is separately identifiable and reliably measurable even though it is not contractually specified.
Consequently, Entity B may designate hedging relationships on a risk components basis (for the coffee
price risk that reflects the benchmark quality) for coffee supply contracts as well as forecast transactions.
 (c) Entity C hedges part of its future jet fuel purchases on the basis of its consumption forecast up to 24
months before delivery and increases the volume that it hedges over time. Entity C hedges this exposure
using different types of contracts depending on the time horizon of the hedge, which affects the market
liquidity of the derivatives. For the longer time horizons (12–24 months) Entity C uses crude oil contracts
because only these have sufficient market liquidity. For time horizons of 6–12 months Entity C uses gas
oil derivatives because they are sufficiently liquid. For time horizons up to six months Entity C uses jet
fuel contracts. Entity C’s analysis of the market structure for oil and oil products and its evaluation of
the relevant facts and circumstances is as follows:
 (i) Entity C operates in a geographical area in which Brent is the crude oil benchmark. Crude oil is a
raw material benchmark that affects the price of various refined oil products as their most basic
input. Gas oil is a benchmark for refined oil products, which is used as a pricing reference for oil
distillates more generally. This is also reflected in the types of derivative financial instruments for
the crude oil and refined oil products markets of the environment in which Entity C operates,
such as:
 the benchmark crude oil futures contract, which is for Brent crude oil;
 the benchmark gas oil futures contract, which is used as the pricing reference for distillates—
for example, jet fuel spread derivatives cover the price differential between jet fuel and that
benchmark gas oil; and
 the benchmark gas oil crack spread derivative (ie the derivative for the price differential
between crude oil and gas oil—a refining margin), which is indexed to Brent crude oil.
 (ii)the pricing of refined oil products does not depend on which particular crude oil is processed by
a particular refinery because those refined oil products (such as gas oil or jet fuel) are standardised
products.

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
97A
Hence, Entity C concludes that the price risk of its jet fuel purchases includes a crude oil price risk
component based on Brent crude oil and a gas oil price risk component, even though crude oil and gas
oil are not specified in any contractual arrangement. Entity C concludes that these two risk components
are separately identifiable and reliably measurable even though they are not contractually specified.
Consequently, Entity C may designate hedging relationships for forecast jet fuel purchases on a risk
components basis (for crude oil or gas oil). This analysis also means that if, for example, Entity C used
crude oil derivatives based on West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, changes in the price differential
between Brent crude oil and WTI crude oil would cause hedge ineffectiveness.
 (d) Entity D holds a fixed-rate debt instrument. This instrument is issued in an environment with a market in
which a large variety of similar debt instruments are compared by their spreads to a benchmark rate (for
example, LIBOR) and variable-rate instruments in that environment are typically indexed to that benchmark
rate. Interest rate swaps are frequently used to manage interest rate risk on the basis of that benchmark
rate, irrespective of the spread of debt instruments to that benchmark rate. The price of fixed-rate debt
instruments varies directly in response to changes in the benchmark rate as they happen. Entity D
concludes that the benchmark rate is a component that can be separately identified and reliably measured.
Consequently, Entity D may designate hedging relationships for the fixed-rate debt instrument on a risk
component basis for the benchmark interest rate risk.
B6.3.11 When designating a risk component as a hedged item, the hedge accounting requirements apply to that risk
component in the same way as they apply to other hedged items that are not risk components. For example, the
qualifying criteria apply, including that the hedging relationship must meet the hedge effectiveness requirements,
and any hedge ineffectiveness must be measured and recognised.
B6.3.12 An entity can also designate only changes in the cash flows or fair value of a hedged item above or below a
specified price or other variable (a ‘one-sided risk’). The intrinsic value of a purchased option hedging instrument
(assuming that it has the same principal terms as the designated risk), but not its time value, reflects a one-sided
risk in a hedged item. For example, an entity can designate the variability of future cash flow outcomes resulting
from a price increase of a forecast commodity purchase. In such a situation, the entity designates only cash
flow losses that result from an increase in the price above the specified level. The hedged risk does not include
the time value of a purchased option, because the time value is not a component of the forecast transaction that
affects profit or loss.
B6.3.13 There is a rebuttable presumption that unless inflation risk is contractually specified, it is not separately
identifiable and reliably measurable and hence cannot be designated as a risk component of a financial instrument.
However, in limited cases, it is possible to identify a risk component for inflation risk that is separately identifiable
and reliably measurable because of the particular circumstances of the inflation environment and the relevant
debt market.
B6.3.14 For example, an entity issues debt in an environment in which inflation-linked bonds have a volume and term
structure that results in a sufficiently liquid market that allows constructing a term structure of zero-coupon real
interest rates. This means that for the respective currency, inflation is a relevant factor that is separately
considered by the debt markets. In those circumstances the inflation risk component could be determined by
discounting the cash flows of the hedged debt instrument using the term structure of zero-coupon real interest
rates (ie in a manner similar to how a risk-free (nominal) interest rate component can be determined). Conversely,
in many cases an inflation risk component is not separately identifiable and reliably measurable. For example, an
entity issues only nominal interest rate debt in an environment with a market for inflation-linked bonds that is
not sufficiently liquid to allow a term structure of zero-coupon real interest rates to be constructed. In this case
the analysis of the market structure and of the facts and circumstances does not support the entity concluding
that inflation is a relevant factor that is separately considered by the debt markets. Hence, the entity cannot
overcome the rebuttable presumption that inflation risk that is not contractually specified is not separately
identifiable and reliably measurable. Consequently, an inflation risk component would not be eligible for

<!-- page 98 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
98A
designation as the hedged item. This applies irrespective of any inflation hedging instrument that the entity has
actually entered into. In particular, the entity cannot simply impute the terms and conditions of the actual
inflation hedging instrument by projecting its terms and conditions onto the nominal interest rate debt.
B6.3.15 A contractually specified inflation risk component of the cash flows of a recognised inflation-linked bond
(assuming that there is no requirement to account for an embedded derivative separately) is separately
identifiable and reliably measurable, as long as other cash flows of the instrument are not affected by the
inflation risk component.
Components of a Nominal Amount
B6.3.16 There are two types of components of nominal amounts that can be designated as the hedged item in a hedging
relationship: a component that is a proportion of an entire item or a layer component. The type of component
changes the accounting outcome. An entity shall designate the component for accounting purposes consistently
with its risk management objective.
B6.3.17 An example of a component that is a proportion is 50 per cent of the contractual cash flows of a loan.
B6.3.18 A layer component may be specified from a defined, but open, population, or from a defined nominal amount.
Examples include:
 (a) part of a monetary transaction volume, for example, the next FC10 cash flows from sales denominated in
a foreign currency after the first FC20 in March 201X;
4
(b) a part of a physical volume, for example, the bottom layer, measuring 5 million cubic metres, of the
natural gas stored in location XYZ;
 (c) a part of a physical or other transaction volume, for example, the first 100 barrels of the oil purchases in
June 201X or the first 100 MWh of electricity sales in June 201X; or
(d) a layer from the nominal amount of the hedged item, for example, the last Rs.80 million of a Rs.100 million
firm commitment, the bottom layer of Rs.20 million of a Rs.100 million fixed-rate bond or the top layer of
Rs.30 million from a total amount of Rs.100 million of fixed-rate debt that can be prepaid at fair value (the
defined nominal amount is Rs.100 million).
 B6.3.19 If a layer component is designated in a fair value hedge, an entity shall specify it from a defined nominal amount.
To comply with the requirements for qualifying fair value hedges, an entity shall remeasure the hedged item for
fair value changes (ie remeasure the item for fair value changes attributable to the hedged risk). The fair value
hedge adjustment must be recognised in profit or loss no later than when the item is derecognised. Consequently,
it is necessary to track the item to which the fair value hedge adjustment relates. For a layer component in a fair
value hedge, this requires an entity to track the nominal amount from which it is defined. For example, in
paragraph B6.3.18(d), the total defined nominal amount of Rs.100 million must be tracked in order to track the
bottom layer of Rs.20 million or the top layer of Rs.30 million.
 B6.3.20 A layer component that includes a prepayment option is not eligible to be designated as a hedged item in a fair
value hedge if the prepayment option’s fair value is affected by changes in the hedged risk, unless the designated
layer includes the effect of the related prepayment option when determining the change in the fair value of the
hedged item.
4 In this Standard monetary amounts are denominated in 'currency units' (CU) and 'foreign currency units' (FC).

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
99A
Relationship between Components and the Total Cash Flows of an Item
B6.3.21 If a component of the cash flows of a financial or a non-financial item is designated as the hedged item, that
component must be less than or equal to the total cash flows of the entire item. However, all of the cash flows
of the entire item may be designated as the hedged item and hedged for only one particular risk (for example,
only for those changes that are attributable to changes in LIBOR or a benchmark commodity price).
 B6.3.22 For example, in the case of a financial liability whose effective interest rate is below LIBOR, an entity cannot
designate:
 (a) a component of the liability equal to interest at LIBOR (plus the principal amount in case of a fair value
hedge); and
 (b) a negative residual component.
 B6.3.23 However, in the case of a fixed-rate financial liability whose effective interest rate is (for example) 100 basis
points below LIBOR, an entity can designate as the hedged item the change in the value of that entire liability
(ie principal plus interest at LIBOR minus 100 basis points) that is attributable to changes in LIBOR. If a fixed-
rate financial instrument is hedged some time after its origination and interest rates have changed in the
meantime, the entity can designate a risk component equal to a benchmark rate that is higher than the contractual
rate paid on the item. The entity can do so provided that the benchmark rate is less than the effective interest
rate calculated on the assumption that the entity had purchased the instrument on the day when it first
designates the hedged item. For example, assume that an entity originates a fixed-rate financial asset of Rs.100
that has an effective interest rate of 6 per cent at a time when LIBOR is 4 per cent. It begins to hedge that asset
some time later when LIBOR has increased to 8 per cent and the fair value of the asset has decreased to Rs.90.
The entity calculates that if it had purchased the asset on the date it first designates the related LIBOR interest
rate risk as the hedged item, the effective yield of the asset based on its then fair value of Rs.90 would have been
9.5 per cent. Because LIBOR is less than this effective yield, the entity can designate a LIBOR component of 8
per cent that consists partly of the contractual interest cash flows and partly of the difference between the
current fair value (ie Rs.90) and the amount repayable on maturity (ie Rs.100).
 B6.3.24 If a variable-rate financial liability bears interest of (for example) three-month LIBOR minus 20 basis points (with
a floor at zero basis points), an entity can designate as the hedged item the change in the cash flows of that
entire liability (ie three-month LIBOR minus 20 basis points—including the floor) that is attributable to changes
in LIBOR. Hence, as long as the three-month LIBOR forward curve for the remaining life of that liability does not
fall below 20 basis points, the hedged item has the same cash flow variability as a liability that bears interest at
three-month LIBOR with a zero or positive spread. However, if the three-month LIBOR forward curve for the
remaining life of that liability (or a part of it) falls below 20 basis points, the hedged item has a lower cash flow
variability than a liability that bears interest at three-month LIBOR with a zero or positive spread.
 B6.3.25 A similar example of a non-financial item is a specific type of crude oil from a particular oil field that is priced off
the relevant benchmark crude oil. If an entity sells that crude oil under a contract using a contractual pricing
formula that sets the price per barrel at the benchmark crude oil price minus Rs.10 with a floor of Rs.15, the entity
can designate as the hedged item the entire cash flow variability under the sales contract that is attributable to
the change in the benchmark crude oil price. However, the entity cannot designate a component that is equal to
the full change in the benchmark crude oil price. Hence, as long as the forward price (for each delivery) does not
fall below Rs.25, the hedged item has the same cash flow variability as a crude oil sale at the benchmark crude
oil price (or with a positive spread). However, if the forward price for any delivery falls below Rs.25, the hedged
item has a lower cash flow variability than a crude oil sale at the benchmark crude oil price (or with a positive
spread).

<!-- page 100 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
100A
Qualifying Criteria for Hedge Accounting (Section 6.4)
Hedge Effectiveness
B6.4.1 Hedge effectiveness is the extent to which changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedging instrument
offset changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedged item (for example, when the hedged item is a risk
component, the relevant change in fair value or cash flows of an item is the one that is attributable to the hedged
risk). Hedge ineffectiveness is the extent to which the changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedging
instrument are greater or less than those on the hedged item.
 B6.4.2 When designating a hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, an entity shall analyse the sources of
hedge ineffectiveness that are expected to affect the hedging relationship during its term. This analysis (including
any updates in accordance with paragraph B6.5.21 arising from rebalancing a hedging relationship) is the basis
for the entity’s assessment of meeting the hedge effectiveness requirements.
 B6.4.3 For the avoidance of doubt, the effects of replacing the original counterparty with a clearing counterparty and
making the associated changes as described in paragraph 6.5.6 shall be reflected in the measurement of the
hedging instrument and therefore in the assessment of hedge effectiveness and the measurement of hedge
effectiveness.
Economic Relationship between the Hedged Item and the Hedging Instrument
B6.4.4 The requirement that an economic relationship exists means that the hedging instrument and the hedged item
have values that generally move in the opposite direction because of the same risk, which is the hedged risk.
Hence, there must be an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and the value of the hedged item
will systematically change in response to movements in either the same underlying or underlying that are
economically related in such a way that they respond in a similar way to the risk that is being hedged (for
example, Brent and WTI crude oil).
 B6.4.5 If the underlying are not the same but are economically related, there can be situations in which the values of
the hedging instrument and the hedged item move in the same direction, for example, because the price
differential between the two related underlying changes while the underlying themselves do not move
significantly. That is still consistent with an economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the
hedged item if the values of the hedging instrument and the hedged item are still expected to typically move in
the opposite direction when the underlying move.
 B6.4.6 The assessment of whether an economic relationship exists includes an analysis of the possible behaviour of
the hedging relationship during its term to ascertain whether it can be expected to meet the risk management
objective. The mere existence of a statistical correlation between two variables does not, by itself, support a
valid conclusion that an economic relationship exists.
The Effect of Credit Risk
B6.4.7 Because the hedge accounting model is based on a general notion of offset between gains and losses on the
hedging instrument and the hedged item, hedge effectiveness is determined not only by the economic relationship
between those items (ie the changes in their underlying) but also by the effect of credit risk on the value of both
the hedging instrument and the hedged item. The effect of credit risk means that even if there is an economic
relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the level of offset might become erratic. This
can result from a change in the credit risk of either the hedging instrument or the hedged item that is of such a
magnitude that the credit risk dominates the value changes that result from the economic relationship (ie the
effect of the changes in the underlying). A level of magnitude that gives rise to dominance is one that would
result in the loss (or gain) from credit risk frustrating the effect of changes in the underlying on the value of the

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
101A
hedging instrument or the hedged item, even if those changes were significant. Conversely, if during a particular
period there is little change in the underlying, the fact that even small credit risk-related changes in the value of
the hedging instrument or the hedged item might affect the value more than the underlying does not create
dominance.
 B6.4.8 An example of credit risk dominating a hedging relationship is when an entity hedges an exposure to commodity
price risk using an uncollateralised derivative. If the counterparty to that derivative experiences a severe
deterioration in its credit standing, the effect of the changes in the counterparty’s credit standing might
outweigh the effect of changes in the commodity price on the fair value of the hedging instrument, whereas
changes in the value of the hedged item depend largely on the commodity price changes.
Hedge Ratio
B6.4.9 In accordance with the hedge effectiveness requirements, the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship must be
the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the entity actually hedges and the quantity
of the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. Hence, if an entity
hedges less than 100 per cent of the exposure on an item, such as 85 per cent, it shall designate the hedging
relationship using a hedge ratio that is the same as that resulting from 85 per cent of the exposure and the
quantity of the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses to hedge those 85 per cent. Similarly, if, for
example, an entity hedges an exposure using a nominal amount of 40 units of a financial instrument, it shall
designate the hedging relationship using a hedge ratio that is the same as that resulting from that quantity of
40 units (ie the entity must not use a hedge ratio based on a higher quantity of units that it might hold in total
or a lower quantity of units) and the quantity of the hedged item that it actually hedges with those 40 units.
 B6.4.10 However, the designation of the hedging relationship using the same hedge ratio as that resulting from the
quantities of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses shall not reflect an
imbalance between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that would in turn create
hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognised or not) that could result in an accounting outcome
that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting. Hence, for the purpose of designating a
hedging relationship, an entity must adjust the hedge ratio that results from the quantities of the hedged item
and the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses if that is needed to avoid such an imbalance.
 B6.4.11 Examples of relevant considerations in assessing whether an accounting outcome is inconsistent with the
purpose of hedge accounting are:
 (a) whether the intended hedge ratio is established to avoid recognising hedge ineffectiveness for cash flow
hedges, or to achieve fair value hedge adjustments for more hedged items with the aim of increasing the use
of fair value accounting, but without offsetting fair value changes of the hedging instrument; and
 (b) whether there is a commercial reason for the particular weightings of the hedged item and the hedging
instrument, even though that creates hedge ineffectiveness. For example, an entity enters into and
designates a quantity of the hedging instrument that is not the quantity that it determined as the best
hedge of the hedged item because the standard volume of the hedging instruments does not allow it to
enter into that exact quantity of hedging instrument (a ‘lot size issue’). An example is an entity that hedges
100 tonnes of coffee purchases with standard coffee futures contracts that have a contract size of 37,500
lbs (pounds). The entity could only use either five or six contracts (equivalent to 85.0 and 102.1 tonnes
respectively) to hedge the purchase volume of 100 tonnes. In that case, the entity designates the hedging
relationship using the hedge ratio that results from the number of coffee futures contracts that it actually
uses, because the hedge ineffectiveness resulting from the mismatch in the weightings of the hedged item
and the hedging instrument would not result in an accounting outcome that is inconsistent with the
purpose of hedge accounting.

<!-- page 102 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
102A
Frequency of Assessing whether the Hedge Effectiveness Requirements are Met
B6.4.12 An entity shall assess at the inception of the hedging relationship, and on an ongoing basis, whether a hedging
relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements. At a minimum, an entity shall perform the ongoing
assessment at each reporting date or upon a significant change in the circumstances affecting the hedge
effectiveness requirements, whichever comes first. The assessment relates to expectations about hedge
effectiveness and is therefore only forward-looking.
Methods for Assessing whether the Hedge Effectiveness Requirements are Met
B6.4.13 This Standard does not specify a method for assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge
effectiveness requirements. However, an entity shall use a method that captures the relevant characteristics of
the hedging relationship including the sources of hedge ineffectiveness. Depending on those factors, the
method can be a qualitative or a quantitative assessment.
 B6.4.14 For example, when the critical terms (such as the nominal amount, maturity and underlying) of the hedging
instrument and the hedged item match or are closely aligned, it might be possible for an entity to conclude on
the basis of a qualitative assessment of those critical terms that the hedging instrument and the hedged item
have values that will generally move in the opposite direction because of the same risk and hence that an
economic relationship exists between the hedged item and the hedging instrument (see paragraphs B6.4.4–
B6.4.6).
 B6.4.15 The fact that a derivative is in or out of the money when it is designated as a hedging instrument does not in
itself mean that a qualitative assessment is inappropriate. It depends on the circumstances whether hedge
ineffectiveness arising from that fact could have a magnitude that a qualitative assessment would not adequately
capture.
 B6.4.16 Conversely, if the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged item are not closely aligned, there is
an increased level of uncertainty about the extent of offset. Consequently, the hedge effectiveness during the
term of the hedging relationship is more difficult to predict. In such a situation it might only be possible for an
entity to conclude on the basis of a quantitative assessment that an economic relationship exists between the
hedged item and the hedging instrument (see paragraphs B6.4.4–B6.4.6). In some situations a quantitative
assessment might also be needed to assess whether the hedge ratio used for designating the hedging relationship
meets the hedge effectiveness requirements (see paragraphs B6.4.9–B6.4.11). An entity can use the same or
different methods for those two different purposes.
 B6.4.17 If there are changes in circumstances that affect hedge effectiveness, an entity may have to change the method
for assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements in order to ensure
that the relevant characteristics of the hedging relationship, including the sources of hedge ineffectiveness, are
still captured.
 B6.4.18 An entity’s risk management is the main source of information to perform the assessment of whether a hedging
relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements. This means that the management information (or
analysis) used for decision-making purposes can be used as a basis for assessing whether a hedging relationship
meets the hedge effectiveness requirements.
 B6.4.19 An entity’s documentation of the hedging relationship includes how it will assess the hedge effectiveness
requirements, including the method or methods used. The documentation of the hedging relationship shall be
updated for any changes to the methods (see paragraph B6.4.17).

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
103A
Accounting for Qualifying Hedging Relationships (Section 6.5)
B6.5.1 An example of a fair value hedge is a hedge of exposure to changes in the fair value of a fixed-rate debt
instrument arising from changes in interest rates. Such a hedge could be entered into by the issuer or by the
holder.
 B6.5.2 The purpose of a cash flow hedge is to defer the gain or loss on the hedging instrument to a period or periods
in which the hedged expected future cash flows affect profit or loss. An example of a cash flow hedge is the use
of a swap to change floating rate debt (whether measured at amortised cost or fair value) to fixed-rate debt (ie
a hedge of a future transaction in which the future cash flows being hedged are the future interest payments).
Conversely, a forecast purchase of an equity instrument that, once acquired, will be accounted for at fair value
through profit or loss, is an example of an item that cannot be the hedged item in a cash flow hedge, because any
gain or loss on the hedging instrument that would be deferred could not be appropriately reclassified to profit
or loss during a period in which it would achieve offset. For the same reason, a forecast purchase of an equity
instrument that, once acquired, will be accounted for at fair value with changes in fair value presented in other
comprehensive income also cannot be the hedged item in a cash flow hedge.
 B6.5.3 A hedge of a firm commitment (for example, a hedge of the change in fuel price relating to an unrecognised
contractual commitment by an electric utility to purchase fuel at a fixed price) is a hedge of an exposure to a
change in fair value. Accordingly, such a hedge is a fair value hedge. However, in accordance with paragraph
6.5.4, a hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment could alternatively be accounted for as a cash
flow hedge.
Measurement of Hedge Ineffectiveness
B6.5.4 When measuring hedge ineffectiveness, an entity shall consider the time value of money. Consequently, the
entity determines the value of the hedged item on a present value basis and therefore the change in the value
of the hedged item also includes the effect of the time value of money.
 B6.5.5 To calculate the change in the value of the hedged item for the purpose of measuring hedge ineffectiveness, an
entity may use a derivative that would have terms that match the critical terms of the hedged item (this is
commonly referred to as a ‘hypothetical derivative’), and, for example for a hedge of a forecast transaction,
would be calibrated using the hedged price (or rate) level. For example, if the hedge was for a two-sided risk at
the current market level, the hypothetical derivative would represent a hypothetical forward contract that is
calibrated to a value of nil at the time of designation of the hedging relationship. If the hedge was for example
for a one-sided risk, the hypothetical derivative would represent the intrinsic value of a hypothetical option that
at the time of designation of the hedging relationship is at the money if the hedged price level is the current
market level, or out of the money if the hedged price level is above (or, for a hedge of a long position, below) the
current market level. Using a hypothetical derivative is one possible way of calculating the change in the value
of the hedged item. The hypothetical derivative replicates the hedged item and hence results in the same
outcome as if that change in value was determined by a different approach. Hence, using a ‘hypothetical
derivative’ is not a method in its own right but a mathematical expedient that can only be used to calculate the
value of the hedged item. Consequently, a ‘hypothetical derivative’ cannot be used to include features in the
value of the hedged item that only exist in the hedging instrument (but not in the hedged item). An example is
debt denominated in a foreign currency (irrespective of whether it is fixed-rate or variable-rate debt). When
using a hypothetical derivative to calculate the change in the value of such debt or the present value of the
cumulative change in its cash flows, the hypothetical derivative cannot simply impute a charge for exchanging
different currencies even though actual derivatives under which different currencies are exchanged might
include such a charge (for example, cross-currency interest rate swaps).
 B6.5.6 The change in the value of the hedged item determined using a hypothetical derivative may also be used for the
purpose of assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements.

<!-- page 104 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
104A
Rebalancing the Hedging Relationship and Changes to the Hedge Ratio
B6.5.7 Rebalancing refers to the adjustments made to the designated quantities of the hedged item or the hedging
instrument of an already existing hedging relationship for the purpose of maintaining a hedge ratio that complies
with the hedge effectiveness requirements. Changes to designated quantities of a hedged item or of a hedging
instrument for a different purpose do not constitute rebalancing for the purpose of this Standard.
 B6.5.8 Rebalancing is accounted for as a continuation of the hedging relationship in accordance with paragraphs
B6.5.9–B6.5.21. On rebalancing, the hedge ineffectiveness of the hedging relationship is determined and
recognised immediately before adjusting the hedging relationship.
 B6.5.9 Adjusting the hedge ratio allows an entity to respond to changes in the relationship between the hedging
instrument and the hedged item that arise from their underlying or risk variables. For example, a hedging
relationship in which the hedging instrument and the hedged item have different but related underlying changes
in response to a change in the relationship between those two underlying (for example, different but related
reference indices, rates or prices). Hence, rebalancing allows the continuation of a hedging relationship in
situations in which the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item changes in a way that
can be compensated for by adjusting the hedge ratio.
 B6.5.10 For example, an entity hedges an exposure to Foreign Currency A using a currency derivative that references
Foreign Currency B and Foreign Currencies A and B are pegged (ie their exchange rate is maintained within a
band or at an exchange rate set by a Central Bank or other authority). If the exchange rate between Foreign
Currency A and Foreign Currency B were changed (ie a new band or rate was set), rebalancing the hedging
relationship to reflect the new exchange rate would ensure that the hedging relationship would continue to
meet the hedge effectiveness requirement for the hedge ratio in the new circumstances. In contrast, if there was
a default on the currency derivative, changing the hedge ratio could not ensure that the hedging relationship
would continue to meet that hedge effectiveness requirement. Hence, rebalancing does not facilitate the
continuation of a hedging relationship in situations in which the relationship between the hedging instrument
and the hedged item changes in a way that cannot be compensated for by adjusting the hedge ratio.
 B6.5.11 Not every change in the extent of offset between the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the
hedged item’s fair value or cash flows constitutes a change in the relationship between the hedging instrument
and the hedged item. An entity analyses the sources of hedge ineffectiveness that it expected to affect the
hedging relationship during its term and evaluates whether changes in the extent of offset are:
 (a) fluctuations around the hedge ratio, which remains valid (ie continues to appropriately reflect the relationship
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item); or
 (b) an indication that the hedge ratio no longer appropriately reflects the relationship between the hedging
instrument and the hedged item. An entity performs this evaluation against the hedge effectiveness
requirement for the hedge ratio, ie to ensure that the hedging relationship does not reflect an imbalance
between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that would create hedge
ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognised or not) that could result in an accounting outcome that
would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting. Hence, this evaluation requires judgement.
 B6.5.12 Fluctuation around a constant hedge ratio (and hence the related hedge ineffectiveness) cannot be reduced by
adjusting the hedge ratio in response to each particular outcome. Hence, in such circumstances, the change in
the extent of offset is a matter of measuring and recognising hedge ineffectiveness but does not require
rebalancing.

<!-- page 105 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
105A
 B6.5.13 Conversely, if changes in the extent of offset indicate that the fluctuation is around a hedge ratio that is
different from the hedge ratio that is currently used for that hedging relationship, or that there is a trend leading
away from that hedge ratio, hedge ineffectiveness can be reduced by adjusting the hedge ratio, whereas
retaining the hedge ratio would increasingly produce hedge ineffectiveness. Hence, in such circumstances, an
entity must evaluate whether the hedging relationship reflects an imbalance between the weightings of the
hedged item and the hedging instrument that would create hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether
recognised or not) that could result in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of
hedge accounting. If the hedge ratio is adjusted, it also affects the measurement and recognition of hedge
ineffectiveness because, on rebalancing, the hedge ineffectiveness of the hedging relationship must be
determined and recognised immediately before adjusting the hedging relationship in accordance with paragraph
B6.5.8.
 B6.5.14 Rebalancing means that, for hedge accounting purposes, after the start of a hedging relationship an entity
adjusts the quantities of the hedging instrument or the hedged item in response to changes in circumstances
that affect the hedge ratio of that hedging relationship. Typically, that adjustment should reflect adjustments in
the quantities of the hedging instrument and the hedged item that it actually uses. However, an entity must
adjust the hedge ratio that results from the quantities of the hedged item or the hedging instrument that it
actually uses if:
 (a) the hedge ratio that results from changes to the quantities of the hedging instrument or the hedged item
that the entity actually uses would reflect an imbalance that would create hedge ineffectiveness that could
result in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of  hedge accounting; or
 (b) an entity would retain quantities of the hedging instrument and the hedged item that it actually uses,
resulting in a hedge ratio that, in new circumstances, would reflect an imbalance that would create hedge
ineffectiveness that could result in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose
of hedge accounting (i.e. an entity must not create an imbalance by omitting to adjust the hedge ratio).
 B6.5.15 Rebalancing does not apply if the risk management objective for a hedging relationship has changed. Instead,
hedge accounting for that hedging relationship shall be discontinued (despite that an entity might designate a
new hedging relationship that involves the hedging instrument or hedged item of the previous hedging
relationship as described in paragraph B6.5.28).
 B6.5.16 If a hedging relationship is rebalanced, the adjustment to the hedge ratio can be effected in different ways:
(a) the weighting of the hedged item can be increased (which at the same time reduces the weighting of the
hedging instrument) by:
 (i) increasing the volume of the hedged item; or
 (ii) decreasing the volume of the hedging instrument.
(b) the weighting of the hedging instrument can be increased (which at the same time reduces the weighting
of the hedged item) by:
 (i) increasing the volume of the hedging instrument; or
 (ii) decreasing the volume of the hedged item.
Changes in volume refer to the quantities that are part of the hedging relationship. Hence, decreases
in volumes do not necessarily mean that the items or transactions no longer exist, or are no longer

<!-- page 106 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
106A
expected to occur, but that they are not part of the hedging relationship. For example, decreasing the
volume of the hedging instrument can result in the entity retaining a derivative, but only part of it
might remain a hedging instrument of the hedging relationship. This could occur if the rebalancing
could be effected only by reducing the volume of the hedging instrument in the hedging relationship,
but with the entity retaining the volume that is no longer needed. In that case, the undesignated part
of the derivative would be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss (unless it was designated
as a hedging instrument in a different hedging relationship).
 B6.5.17 Adjusting the hedge ratio by increasing the volume of the hedged item does not affect how the changes in the
fair value of the hedging instrument are measured. The measurement of the changes in the value of the hedged
item related to the previously designated volume also remains unaffected. However, from the date of rebalancing,
the changes in the value of the hedged item also include the change in the value of the additional volume of the
hedged item. These changes are measured starting from, and by reference to, the date of rebalancing instead of
the date on which the hedging relationship was designated. For example, if an entity originally hedged a volume
of 100 tonnes of a commodity at a forward price of Rs.80 (the forward price at inception of the hedging
relationship) and added a volume of 10 tonnes on rebalancing when the forward price was Rs.90, the hedged
item after rebalancing would comprise two layers: 100 tonnes hedged at Rs.80 and 10 tonnes hedged at Rs.90.
B6.5.18 Adjusting the hedge ratio by decreasing the volume of the hedging instrument does not affect how the
changes in the value of the hedged item are measured. The measurement of the changes in the fair value of the
hedging instrument related to the volume that continues to be designated also remains unaffected. However,
from the date of rebalancing, the volume by which the hedging instrument was decreased is no longer part of
the hedging relationship. For example, if an entity originally hedged the price risk of a commodity using a
derivative volume of 100 tonnes as the hedging instrument and reduces that volume by 10 tonnes on rebalancing,
a nominal amount of 90 tonnes of the hedging instrument volume would remain (see paragraph B6.5.16 for the
consequences for the derivative volume (ie the 10 tonnes) that is no longer a part of the hedging relationship).
 B6.5.19 Adjusting the hedge ratio by increasing the volume of the hedging instrument does not affect how the changes
in the value of the hedged item are measured. The measurement of the changes in the fair value of the hedging
instrument related to the previously designated volume also remains unaffected. However, from the date of
rebalancing, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument also include the changes in the value of the
additional volume of the hedging instrument. The changes are measured starting from, and by reference to, the
date of rebalancing instead of the date on which the hedging relationship was designated. For example, if an
entity originally hedged the price risk of a commodity using a derivative volume of 100 tonnes as the hedging
instrument and added a volume of 10 tonnes on rebalancing, the hedging instrument after rebalancing would
comprise a total derivative volume of 110 tonnes. The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument is the
total change in the fair value of the derivatives that make up the total volume of 110 tonnes. These derivatives
could (and probably would) have different critical terms, such as their forward rates, because they were entered
into at different points in time (including the possibility of designating derivatives into hedging relationships
after their initial recognition).
 B6.5.20 Adjusting the hedge ratio by decreasing the volume of the hedged item does not affect how the changes in the
fair value of the hedging instrument are measured. The measurement of the changes in the value of the hedged
item related to the volume that continues to be designated also remains unaffected. However, from the date of
rebalancing, the volume by which the hedged item was decreased is no longer part of the hedging relationship.
For example, if an entity originally hedged a volume of 100 tonnes of a commodity at a forward price of Rs.80 and
reduces that volume by 10 tonnes on rebalancing, the hedged item after rebalancing would be 90 tonnes
hedged at Rs.80. The 10 tonnes of the hedged item that are no longer part of the hedging relationship would be
accounted for in accordance with the requirements for the discontinuation of hedge accounting (see paragraphs
6.5.6–6.5.7 and B6.5.22–B6.5.28).
 B6.5.21 When rebalancing a hedging relationship, an entity shall update its analysis of the sources of hedge
ineffectiveness that are expected to affect the hedging relationship during its (remaining) term (see paragraph
B6.4.2). The documentation of the hedging relationship shall be updated accordingly.

<!-- page 107 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
107A
Discontinuation of Hedge Accounting
B6.5.22 Discontinuation of hedge accounting applies prospectively from the date on which the qualifying criteria are
no longer met.
 B6.5.23 An entity shall not de-designate and thereby discontinue a hedging relationship that:
 (a) still meets the risk management objective on the basis of which it qualified for hedge accounting (ie the
entity still pursues that risk management objective); and
 (b) continues to meet all other qualifying criteria (after taking into account any rebalancing of the hedging
relationship, if applicable).
 B6.5.24 For the purposes of this Standard, an entity’s risk management strategy is distinguished from its risk management
objectives. The risk management strategy is established at the highest level at which an entity determines how
it manages its risk. Risk management strategies typically identify the risks to which the entity is exposed and set
out how the entity responds to them. A risk management strategy is typically in place for a longer period and
may include some flexibility to react to changes in circumstances that occur while that strategy is in place (for
example, different interest rate or commodity price levels that result in a different extent of hedging). This is
normally set out in a general document that is cascaded down through an entity through policies containing
more specific guidelines. In contrast, the risk management objective for a hedging relationship applies at the
level of a particular hedging relationship. It relates to how the particular hedging instrument that has been
designated is used to hedge the particular exposure that has been designated as the hedged item. Hence, a risk
management strategy can involve many different hedging relationships whose risk management objectives
relate to executing that overall risk management strategy. For example:
 (a) an entity has a strategy of managing its interest rate exposure on debt funding that sets ranges for the
overall entity for the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding. The strategy is to maintain between
20 per cent and 40 per cent of the debt at fixed rates. The entity decides from time to time how to execute this
strategy (ie where it positions itself within the 20 per cent to 40 per cent range for fixed-rate interest
exposure) depending on the level of interest rates. If interest rates are low the entity fixes the interest for
more debt than when interest rates are high. The entity’s debt is Rs.100 of variable-rate debt of which Rs.30
is swapped into a fixed-rate exposure. The entity takes advantage of low interest rates to issue an additional
Rs.50 of debt to finance a major investment, which the entity does by issuing a fixed-rate bond. In the light
of the low interest rates, the entity decides to set its fixed interest-rate exposure to 40 per cent of the total
debt by reducing by Rs.20 the extent to which it previously hedged its variable-rate exposure, resulting in
Rs.60 of fixed-rate exposure. In this situation the risk management strategy itself remains unchanged.
However, in contrast the entity’s execution of that strategy has changed and this means that, for Rs.20 of
variable-rate exposure that was previously hedged, the risk management objective has changed (ie at the
hedging relationship level). Consequently, in this situation hedge accounting must be discontinued for
Rs.20 of the previously hedged variable-rate exposure. This could involve reducing the swap position by
a Rs.20 nominal amount but, depending on the circumstances, an entity might retain that swap volume and,
for example, use it for hedging a different exposure or it might become part of a trading book. Conversely,
if an entity instead swapped a part of its new fixed-rate debt into a variable-rate exposure, hedge accounting
would have to be continued for its previously hedged variable-rate exposure.
 (b) some exposures result from positions that frequently change, for example, the interest rate risk of an open
portfolio of debt instruments. The addition of new debt instruments and the derecognition of debt
instruments continuously change that exposure (ie it is different from simply running off a position that
matures). This is a dynamic process in which both the exposure and the hedging instruments used to
manage it do not remain the same for long. Consequently, an entity with such an exposure frequently

<!-- page 108 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
108A
adjusts the hedging instruments used to manage the interest rate risk as the exposure changes. For
example, debt instruments with 24 months’ remaining maturity are designated as the hedged item for
interest rate risk for 24 months. The same procedure is applied to other time buckets or maturity periods.
After a short period of time, the entity discontinues all, some or a part of the previously designated
hedging relationships for maturity periods and designates new hedging relationships for maturity periods
on the basis of their size and the hedging instruments that exist at that time. The discontinuation of hedge
accounting in this situation reflects that those hedging relationships are established in such a way that the
entity looks at a new hedging instrument and a new hedged item instead of the hedging instrument and the
hedged item that were designated previously. The risk management strategy remains the same, but there is
no risk management objective that continues for those previously designated hedging relationships,
which as such no longer exist. In such a situation, the discontinuation of hedge accounting applies to the
extent to which the risk management objective has changed. This depends on the situation of an entity and
could, for example, affect all or only some hedging relationships of a maturity period, or only part of a
hedging relationship.
 (c) an entity has a risk management strategy whereby it manages the foreign currency risk of forecast sales
and the resulting receivables. Within that strategy the entity manages the foreign currency risk as a
particular hedging relationship only up to the point of the recognition of the receivable. Thereafter, the
entity no longer manages the foreign currency risk on the basis of that particular hedging relationship.
Instead, it manages together the foreign currency risk from receivables, payables and derivatives (that do
not relate to forecast transactions that are still pending) denominated in the same foreign currency. For
accounting purposes, this works as a ‘natural’ hedge because the gains and losses from the foreign
currency risk on all of those items are immediately recognised in profit or loss. Consequently, for accounting
purposes, if the hedging relationship is designated for the period up to the payment date, it must be
discontinued when the receivable is recognised, because the risk management objective of the original
hedging relationship no longer applies. The foreign currency risk is now managed within the same strategy
but on a different basis. Conversely, if an entity had a different risk management objective and managed the
foreign currency risk as one continuous hedging relationship specifically for that forecast sales amount
and the resulting receivable until the settlement date, hedge accounting would continue until that date.
 B6.5.25 The discontinuation of hedge accounting can affect:
 (a) a hedging relationship in its entirety; or
 (b) a part of a hedging relationship (which means that hedge accounting continues for the remainder of the
hedging relationship).
 B6.5.26 A hedging relationship is discontinued in its entirety when, as a whole, it ceases to meet the qualifying criteria.
For example:
 (a) the hedging relationship no longer meets the risk management objective on the basis of which it qualified
for hedge accounting (ie the entity no longer pursues that risk management objective);
 (b) the hedging instrument or instruments have been sold or terminated (in relation to the entire volume that
was part of the hedging relationship); or
 (c) there is no longer an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument or the
effect of credit risk starts to dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship.

<!-- page 109 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
109A
 B6.5.27 A part of a hedging relationship is discontinued (and hedge accounting continues for its remainder) when only
a part of the hedging relationship ceases to meet the qualifying criteria. For example:
(a) on rebalancing of the hedging relationship, the hedge ratio might be adjusted in such a way that some of
the volume of the hedged item is no longer part of the hedging relationship (see paragraph B6.5.20);
hence, hedge accounting is discontinued only for the volume of the hedged item that is no longer part of
the hedging relationship; or
 (b) when the occurrence of some of the volume of the hedged item that is (or is a component of) a forecast
transaction is no longer highly probable, hedge accounting is discontinued only for the volume of the
hedged item whose occurrence is no longer highly probable. However, if an entity has a history of having
designated hedges of forecast transactions and having subsequently determined that the forecast
transactions are no longer expected to occur, the entity’s ability to predict forecast transactions accurately
is called into question when predicting similar forecast transactions. This affects the assessment of
whether similar forecast transactions are highly probable (see paragraph 6.3.3) and hence whether they
are eligible as hedged items.
 B6.5.28 An entity can designate a new hedging relationship that involves the hedging instrument or hedged item of a
previous hedging relationship for which hedge accounting was (in part or in its entirety) discontinued. This
does not constitute a continuation of a hedging relationship but is a restart. For example:
 (a) a hedging instrument experiences such a severe credit deterioration that the entity replaces it with a new
hedging instrument. This means that the original hedging relationship failed to achieve the risk management
objective and is hence discontinued in its entirety. The new hedging instrument is designated as the
hedge of the same exposure that was hedged previously and forms a new hedging relationship. Hence, the
changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedged item are measured starting from, and by reference
to, the date of designation of the new hedging relationship instead of the date on which the original
hedging relationship was designated.
 (b) a hedging relationship is discontinued before the end of its term. The hedging instrument in that hedging
relationship can be designated as the hedging instrument in another hedging relationship (for example,
when adjusting the hedge ratio on rebalancing by increasing the volume of the hedging instrument or
when designating a whole new hedging relationship).
Accounting for the Time Value of Options
B6.5.29 An option can be considered as being related to a time period because its time value represents a charge for
providing protection for the option holder over a period of time. However, the relevant aspect for the purpose
of assessing whether an option hedges a transaction or time-period related hedged item are the characteristics
of that hedged item, including how and when it affects profit or loss. Hence, an entity shall assess the type of
hedged item (see paragraph 6.5.15(a)) on the basis of the nature of the hedged item (regardless of whether the
hedging relationship is a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge):
 (a) the time value of an option relates to a transaction related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item is
a transaction for which the time value has the character of costs of that transaction. An example is when
the time value of an option relates to a hedged item that results in the recognition of an item whose initial
measurement includes transaction costs (for example, an entity hedges a commodity purchase, whether it
is a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, against the commodity price risk and includes the transaction
costs in the initial measurement of the inventory). As a consequence of including the time value of the

<!-- page 110 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
110A
option in the initial measurement of the particular hedged item, the time value affects profit or loss at the
same time as that hedged item. Similarly, an entity that hedges a sale of a commodity, whether it is a forecast
transaction or a firm commitment, would include the time value of the option as part of the cost related to
that sale (hence, the time value would be recognised in profit or loss in the same period as the revenue from
the hedged sale).
 (b) the time value of an option relates to a time-period related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item is
such that the time value has the character of a cost for obtaining protection against a risk over a particular
period of time (but the hedged item does not result in a transaction that involves the notion of a transaction
cost in accordance with (a)). For example, if commodity inventory is hedged against a fair value decrease
for six months using a commodity option with a corresponding life, the time value of the option would be
allocated to profit or loss (ie amortised on a systematic and rational basis) over that six-month period.
Another example is a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is hedged for 18 months using
a foreign-exchange option, which would result in allocating the time value of the option over that 18-month
period.
 B6.5.30 The characteristics of the hedged item, including how and when the hedged item affects profit or loss, also
affect the period over which the time value of an option that hedges a time-period related hedged item is
amortised, which is consistent with the period over which the option’s intrinsic value can affect profit or loss in
accordance with hedge accounting. For example, if an interest rate option (a cap) is used to provide protection
against increases in the interest expense on a floating rate bond, the time value of that cap is amortised to profit
or loss over the same period over which any intrinsic value of the cap would affect profit or loss:
 (a) if the cap hedges increases in interest rates for the first three years out of a total life of the floating rate
bond of five years, the time value of that cap is amortised over the first three years; or
 (b) if the cap is a forward start option that hedges increases in interest rates for years two and three out of a
total life of the floating rate bond of five years, the time value of that cap is amortised during years two and
three.
B6.5.31 The accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph  6.5.15 also applies to a combination
of a purchased and a written option (one being a put option and one being a call option) that at the date of
designation as a hedging instrument has a net nil time value (commonly referred to as a ‘zero-cost collar’). In
that case, an entity shall recognise any changes in time value in other comprehensive income, even though the
cumulative change in time value over the total period of the hedging relationship is nil. Hence, if the time value
of the option relates to:
 (a) a transaction related hedged item, the amount of time value at the end of the hedging relationship that
adjusts the hedged item or that is reclassified to profit or loss (see paragraph 6.5.15(b)) would be nil.
 (b) a time-period related hedged item, the amortisation expense related to the time value is nil.
 B6.5.32 The accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 applies only to the extent that
the time value relates to the hedged item (aligned time value). The time value of an option relates to the hedged
item if the critical terms of the option (such as the nominal amount, life and underlying) are aligned with the
hedged item. Hence, if the critical terms of the option and the hedged item are not fully aligned, an entity shall
determine the aligned time value, ie how much of the time value included in the premium (actual time value)
relates to the hedged item (and therefore should be treated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15). An entity
determines the aligned time value using the valuation of the option that would have critical terms that perfectly
match the hedged item.

<!-- page 111 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
111A
 B6.5.33 If the actual time value and the aligned time value differ, an entity shall determine the amount that is accumulated
in a separate component of equity in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 as follows:
 (a) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the actual time value is higher than the aligned time value, the
entity shall:
 (i) determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity on the basis of the
aligned time value; and
 (ii)account for the differences in the fair value changes between the two time values in profit or loss.
 (b) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the actual time value is lower than the aligned time value, the
entity shall determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity by reference to
the lower of the cumulative change in fair value of:
 (i) the actual time value; and
 (ii) the aligned time value.
Any remainder of the change in fair value of the actual time value shall be recognised in profit or
loss.
Accounting for the Forward Element of Forward Contracts and Foreign Currency Basis Spreads of Financial
Instruments
B6.5.34 A forward contract can be considered as being related to a time period because its forward element represents
charges for a period of time (which is the tenor for which it is determined). However, the relevant aspect for the
purpose of assessing whether a hedging instrument hedges a transaction or time-period related hedged item
are the characteristics of that hedged item, including how and when it affects profit or loss. Hence, an entity
shall assess the type of hedged item (see paragraphs 6.5.16 and 6.5.15(a)) on the basis of the nature of the
hedged item (regardless of whether the hedging relationship is a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge):
 (a) the forward element of a forward contract relates to a transaction related hedged item if the nature of the
hedged item is a transaction for which the forward element has the character of costs of that transaction.
An example is when the forward element relates to a hedged item that results in the recognition of an item
whose initial measurement includes transaction costs (for example, an entity hedges an inventory purchase
denominated in a foreign currency, whether it is a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, against
foreign currency risk and includes the transaction costs in the initial measurement of the inventory). As
a consequence of including the forward element in the initial measurement of the particular hedged item,
the forward element affects profit or loss at the same time as that hedged item. Similarly, an entity that
hedges a sale of a commodity denominated in a foreign currency against foreign currency risk, whether it
is a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, would include the forward element as part of the cost that
is related to that sale (hence, the forward element would be recognised in profit or loss in the same period
as the revenue from the hedged sale).
 (b) the forward element of a forward contract relates to a time-period related hedged item if the nature of the
hedged item is such that the forward element has the character of a cost for obtaining protection against
a risk over a particular period of time (but the hedged item does not result in a transaction that involves
the notion of a transaction cost in accordance with (a)). For example, if commodity inventory is hedged
against changes in fair value for six months using a commodity forward contract with a corresponding
life, the forward element of the forward contract would be allocated to profit or loss (ie amortised on a
systematic and rational basis) over that six-month period. Another example is a hedge of a net investment

<!-- page 112 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
112A
in a foreign operation that is hedged for 18 months using a foreign-exchange forward contract, which
would result in allocating the forward element of the forward contract over that 18-month period.
  B6.5.35 The characteristics of the hedged item, including how and when the hedged item affects profit or loss, also
affect the period over which the forward element of a forward contract that hedges a time-period related hedged
item is amortised, which is over the period to which the forward element relates. For example, if a forward
contract hedges the exposure to variability in three-month interest rates for a three-month period that starts in
six months’ time, the forward element is amortised during the period that spans months seven to nine.
 B6.5.36 The accounting for the forward element of a forward contract in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 also applies
if, at the date on which the forward contract is designated as a hedging instrument, the forward element is nil.
In that case, an entity shall recognise any fair value changes attributable to the forward element in other
comprehensive income, even though the cumulative fair value change attributable to the forward element over
the total period of the hedging relationship is nil. Hence, if the forward element of a forward contract relates to:
 (a) a transaction related hedged item, the amount in respect of the forward element at the end of the
hedging relationship that adjusts the hedged item or that is reclassified to profit or loss (see paragraphs
6.5.15(b) and 6.5.16) would be nil.
 (b) a time-period related hedged item, the amortisation amount related to the forward element is nil.
 B6.5.37 The accounting for the forward element of forward contracts in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 applies only
to the extent that the forward element relates to the hedged item (aligned forward element). The forward element
of a forward contract relates to the hedged item if the critical terms of the forward contract (such as the nominal
amount, life and underlying) are aligned with the hedged item. Hence, if the critical terms of the forward contract
and the hedged item are not fully aligned, an entity shall determine the aligned forward element, ie how much of
the forward element included in the forward contract (actual forward element) relates to the hedged item (and
therefore should be treated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16). An entity determines the aligned forward
element using the valuation of the forward contract that would have critical terms that perfectly match the
hedged item.
 B6.5.38 If the actual forward element and the aligned forward element differ, an entity shall determine the amount that is
accumulated in a separate component of equity in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 as follows:
 (a) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the absolute amount of the actual forward element is higher
than that of the aligned forward element the entity shall:
 (i) determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity on the basis of the
aligned forward element; and
 (ii) account for the differences in the fair value changes between the two forward elements in profit or
loss.
 (b) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the absolute amount of the actual forward element is lower
than that of the aligned forward element, the entity shall determine the amount that is accumulated in a
separate component of equity by reference to the lower of the cumulative change in fair value of:
 (i) the absolute amount of the actual forward element; and
 (ii) the absolute amount of the aligned forward element.
Any remainder of the change in fair value of the actual forward element shall be recognised in profit
or loss.

<!-- page 113 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
113A
 B6.5.39 When an entity separates the foreign currency basis spread from a financial instrument and excludes it from the
designation of that financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraph 6.2.4(b)), the application
guidance in paragraphs B6.5.34–B6.5.38 applies to the foreign currency basis spread in the same manner as it is
applied to the forward element of a forward contract.
Hedge of a Group of Items (Section 6.6)
Hedge of a Net Position
Eligibility for Hedge Accounting and Designation of a Net Position
B6.6.1 A net position is eligible for hedge accounting only if an entity hedges on a net basis for risk management
purposes. Whether an entity hedges in this way is a matter of fact (not merely of assertion or documentation).
Hence, an entity cannot apply hedge accounting on a net basis solely to achieve a particular accounting
outcome if that would not reflect its risk management approach. Net position hedging must form part of an
established risk management strategy. Normally this would be approved by key management personnel as
defined in LKAS 24.
 B6.6.2 For example, Entity A, whose functional currency is its local currency, has a firm commitment to pay FC150,000
for advertising expenses in nine months’ time and a firm commitment to sell finished goods for FC150,000 in 15
months’ time. Entity A enters into a foreign currency derivative that settles in nine months’ time under which it
receives FC100 and pays Rs.70. Entity A has no other exposures to FC. Entity A does not manage foreign
currency risk on a net basis. Hence, Entity A cannot apply hedge accounting for a hedging relationship
between the foreign currency derivative and a net position of FC100 (consisting of FC150,000 of the firm
purchase commitment—ie advertising services—and FC149,900 (of the FC150,000) of the firm sale commitment)
for a nine-month period.
B6.6.3 If Entity A did manage foreign currency risk on a net basis and did not enter into the foreign currency derivative
(because it increases its foreign currency risk exposure instead of reducing it), then the entity would be in a
natural hedged position for nine months. Normally, this hedged position would not be reflected in the financial
statements because the transactions are recognised in different reporting periods in the future. The nil net
position would be eligible for hedge accounting only if the conditions in paragraph 6.6.6 are met.
 B6.6.4 When a group of items that constitute a net position is designated as a hedged item, an entity shall designate
the overall group of items that includes the items that can make up the net position. An entity is not permitted
to designate a non-specific abstract amount of a net position. For example, an entity has a group of firm sale
commitments in nine months’ time for FC100 and a group of firm purchase commitments in 18 months’ time for
FC120. The entity cannot designate an abstract amount of a net position up to FC20. Instead, it must designate
a gross amount of purchases and a gross amount of sales that together give rise to the hedged net position. An
entity shall designate gross positions that give rise to the net position so that the entity is able to comply with
the requirements for the accounting for qualifying hedging relationships.
Application of the Hedge Effectiveness Requirements to a Hedge of a Net Position
B6.6.5 When an entity determines whether the hedge effectiveness requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met when it
hedges a net position, it shall consider the changes in the value of the items in the net position that have a
similar effect as the hedging instrument in conjunction with the fair value change on the hedging instrument.
For example, an entity has a group of firm sale commitments in nine months’ time for FC100 and a group of firm
purchase commitments in 18 months’ time for FC120. It hedges the foreign currency risk of the net position of

<!-- page 114 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
114A
FC20 using a forward exchange contract for FC20. When determining whether the hedge effectiveness
requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met, the entity shall consider the relationship between:
 (a) the fair value change on the forward exchange contract together with the foreign currency risk related
changes in the value of the firm sale commitments; and
 (b) the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the firm purchase commitments.
 B6.6.6 Similarly, if in the example in paragraph B6.6.5 the entity had a nil net position it would consider the relationship
between the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the firm sale commitments and the foreign
currency risk related changes in the value of the firm purchase commitments when determining whether the
hedge effectiveness requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met.
Cash Flow Hedges that Constitute a Net Position
B6.6.7 When an entity hedges a group of items with offsetting risk positions (ie. a net position), the eligibility for
hedge accounting depends on the type of hedge. If the hedge is a fair value hedge, then the net position may
be eligible as a hedged item. If, however, the hedge is a cash flow hedge, then the net position can only be
eligible as a hedged item if it is a hedge of foreign currency risk and the designation of that net position
specifies the reporting period in which the forecast transactions are expected to affect profit or loss and also
specifies their nature and volume.
 B6.6.8 For example, an entity has a net position that consists of a bottom layer of FC100 of sales and a bottom layer of
FC150 of purchases. Both sales and purchases are denominated in the same foreign currency. In order to
sufficiently specify the designation of the hedged net position, the entity specifies in the original documentation
of the hedging relationship that sales can be of Product A or Product B and purchases can be of Machinery
Type A, Machinery Type B and Raw Material A. The entity also specifies the volumes of the transactions by
each nature. The entity documents that the bottom layer of sales (FC100) is made up of a forecast sales volume
of the first FC70 of Product A and the first FC30 of Product B. If those sales volumes are expected to affect profit
or loss in different reporting periods, the entity would include that in the documentation, for example, the first
FC70 from sales of Product A that are expected to affect profit or loss in the first reporting period and the first
FC30 from sales of Product B that are expected to affect profit or loss in the second reporting period. The entity
also documents that the bottom layer of the purchases (FC150) is made up of purchases of the first FC60 of
Machinery Type A, the first FC40 of Machinery Type B and the first FC50 of Raw Material A. If those purchase
volumes are expected to affect profit or loss in different reporting periods, the entity would include in the
documentation a disaggregation of the purchase volumes by the reporting periods in which they are expected
to affect profit or loss (similarly to how it documents the sales volumes). For example, the forecast transaction
would be specified as:
 (a) the first FC60 of purchases of Machinery Type A that are expected to affect profit or loss from the third
reporting period over the next ten reporting periods;
 (b) the first FC40 of purchases of Machinery Type B that are expected to affect profit or loss from the
fourth reporting period over the next 20 reporting periods; and
 (c) the first FC50 of purchases of Raw Material A that are expected to be received in the third reporting
period and sold, ie. affect profit or loss, in that and the next reporting period.
Specifying the nature of the forecast transaction volumes would include aspects such as the depreciation
pattern for items of property, plant and equipment of the same kind, if the nature of those items is such
that the depreciation pattern could vary depending on how the entity uses those items. For example, if
the entity uses items of Machinery Type A in two different production processes that result in straight-
line depreciation over ten reporting periods and the units of production method respectively, its

<!-- page 115 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
115A
documentation of the forecast purchase volume for Machinery Type A would disaggregate that volume
by which of those depreciation patterns will apply.
 B6.6.9 For a cash flow hedge of a net position, the amounts determined in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11 shall
include the changes in the value of the items in the net position that have a similar effect as the hedging
instrument in conjunction with the fair value change on the hedging instrument. However, the changes in the
value of the items in the net position that have a similar effect as the hedging instrument are recognised only
once the transactions that they relate to are recognised, such as when a forecast sale is recognised as revenue.
For example, an entity has a group of highly probable forecast sales in nine months’ time for FC100 and a group
of highly probable forecast purchases in 18 months’ time for FC120. It hedges the foreign currency risk of the
net position of FC20 using a forward exchange contract for FC20. When determining the amounts that are
recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(a)–6.5.11(b), the entity compares:
 (a) the fair value change on the forward exchange contract together with the foreign currency risk related
changes in the value of the highly probable forecast sales; with
 (b) the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the highly probable forecast purchases.
However, the entity recognises only amounts related to the forward exchange contract until the highly probable
forecast sales transactions are recognised in the financial statements, at which time the gains or losses on those
forecast transactions are recognised (ie. the change in the value attributable to the change in the foreign
exchange rate between the designation of the hedging relationship and the recognition of revenue).
 B6.6.10 Similarly, if in the example the entity had a nil net position it would compare the foreign currency risk related
changes in the value of the highly probable forecast sales with the foreign currency risk related changes in the
value of the highly probable forecast purchases. However, those amounts are recognised only once the related
forecast transactions are recognised in the financial statements.
Layers of Groups of Items Designated as the Hedged Item
B6.6.11 For the same reasons noted in paragraph B6.3.19, designating layer components of groups of existing items
requires the specific identification of the nominal amount of the group of items from which the hedged layer
component is defined.
 B6.6.12 A hedging relationship can include layers from several different groups of items. For example, in a hedge of a net
position of a group of assets and a group of liabilities, the hedging relationship can comprise, in combination,
a layer component of the group of assets and a layer component of the group of liabilities.
Presentation of Hedging Instrument Gains or Losses
B6.6.13 If items are hedged together as a group in a cash flow hedge, they might affect different line items in the
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. The presentation of hedging gains or losses in that
statement depends on the group of items.
 B6.6.14 If the group of items does not have any offsetting risk positions (for example, a group of foreign currency
expenses that affect different line items in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income that
are hedged for foreign currency risk) then the reclassified hedging instrument gains or losses shall be apportioned
to the line items affected by the hedged items. This apportionment shall be done on a systematic and rational
basis and shall not result in the grossing up of the net gains or losses arising from a single hedging instrument.
 B6.6.15 If the group of items does have offsetting risk positions (for example, a group of sales and expenses denominated
in a foreign currency hedged together for foreign currency risk) then an entity shall present the hedging gains

<!-- page 116 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
116A
or losses in a separate line item in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. Consider, for
example, a hedge of the foreign currency risk of a net position of foreign currency sales of FC100 and foreign
currency expenses of FC80 using a forward exchange contract for FC20. The gain or loss on the forward
exchange contract that is reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss (when the net position
affects profit or loss) shall be presented in a separate line item from the hedged sales and expenses. Moreover,
if the sales occur in an earlier period than the expenses, the sales revenue is still measured at the spot exchange
rate in accordance with LKAS 21. The related hedging gain or loss is presented in a separate line item, so that
profit or loss reflects the effect of hedging the net position, with a corresponding adjustment to the cash flow
hedge reserve. When the hedged expenses affect profit or loss in a later period, the hedging gain or loss
previously recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve on the sales is reclassified to profit or loss and presented
as a separate line item from those that include the hedged expenses, which are measured at the spot exchange
rate in accordance with LKAS 21.
 B6.6.16 For some types of fair value hedges, the objective of the hedge is not primarily to offset the fair value change
of the hedged item but instead to transform the cash flows of the hedged item. For example, an entity hedges the
fair value interest rate risk of a fixed-rate debt instrument using an interest rate swap. The entity’s hedge
objective is to transform the fixed-interest cash flows into floating interest cash flows. This objective is reflected
in the accounting for the hedging relationship by accruing the net interest accrual on the interest rate swap in
profit or loss. In the case of a hedge of a net position (for example, a net position of a fixed-rate asset and a fixed-
rate liability), this net interest accrual must be presented in a separate line item in the statement of profit or loss
and other comprehensive income. This is to avoid the grossing up of a single instrument’s net gains or losses
into offsetting gross amounts and recognising them in different line items (for example, this avoids grossing up
a net interest receipt on a single interest rate swap into gross interest revenue and gross interest expense).
Effective Date and Transition (Chapter 7)
Transition (Section 7.2)
Financial Assets Held for Trading
B7.2.1 At the date of initial application of this Standard, an entity must determine whether the objective of the entity’s
business model for managing any of its financial assets meets the condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the
condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a) or if a financial asset is eligible for the election in paragraph 5.7.5. For that
purpose, an entity shall determine whether financial assets meet the definition of held for trading as if the entity
had purchased the assets at the date of initial application.
Impairment
B7.2.2 On transition, an entity should seek to approximate the credit risk on initial recognition by considering all
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. An entity is not required
to undertake an exhaustive search for information when determining, at the date of transition, whether there
have been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. If an entity is unable to make this
determination without undue cost or effort paragraph 7.2.20 applies.
 B7.2.3 In order to determine the loss allowance on financial instruments initially recognised (or loan commitments or
financial guarantee contracts to which the entity became a party to the contract) prior to the date of initial
application, both on transition and until the derecognition of those items an entity shall consider information
that is relevant in determining or approximating the credit risk at initial recognition. In order to determine or
approximate the initial credit risk, an entity may consider internal and external information, including portfolio
information, in accordance with paragraphs B5.5.1–B5.5.6.

<!-- page 117 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
117A
 B7.2.4 An entity with little historical information may use information from internal reports and statistics (that may
have been generated when deciding whether to launch a new product), information about similar products or
peer group experience for comparable financial instruments, if relevant.
Definitions (Appendix A)
Derivatives
BA.1 T ypical examples of derivatives are futures and forward, swap and option contracts. A derivative usually has a
notional amount, which is an amount of currency, a number of shares, a number of units of weight or volume or
other units specified in the contract. However, a derivative instrument does not require the holder or writer to
invest or receive the notional amount at the inception of the contract. Alternatively, a derivative could require
a fixed payment or payment of an amount that can change (but not proportionally with a change in the
underlying) as a result of some future event that is unrelated to a notional amount. For example, a contract may
require a fixed payment of Rs.1,000 if six-month LIBOR increases by 100 basis points. Such a contract is a
derivative even though a notional amount is not specified.
 BA.2 The definition of a derivative in this Standard includes contracts that are settled gross by delivery of the
underlying item (eg a forward contract to purchase a fixed rate debt instrument). An entity may have a contract
to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging
financial instruments (eg a contract to buy or sell a commodity at a fixed price at a future date). Such a contract
is within the scope of this Standard unless it was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of
delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
However, this Standard applies to such contracts for an entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements
if the entity makes a designation in accordance with paragraph 2.5 (see paragraphs 2.4–2.7).
 BA.3 One of the defining characteristics of a derivative is that it has an initial net investment that is smaller than
would be required for other types of contracts that would be expected to have a similar response to changes in
market factors. An option contract meets that definition because the premium is less than the investment that
would be required to obtain the underlying financial instrument to which the option is linked. A currency swap
that requires an initial exchange of different currencies of equal fair values meets the definition because it has
a zero initial net investment.
 BA.4 A regular way purchase or sale gives rise to a fixed price commitment between trade date and settlement date
that meets the definition of a derivative. However, because of the short duration of the commitment it is not
recognised as a derivative financial instrument. Instead, this Standard provides for special accounting for such
regular way contracts (see paragraphs 3.1.2 and B3.1.3–B3.1.6).
 BA.5 The definition of a derivative refers to non-financial variables that are not specific to a party to the contract.
These include an index of earthquake losses in a particular region and an index of temperatures in a particular
city. Non-financial variables specific to a party to the contract include the occurrence or non-occurrence of a
fire that damages or destroys an asset of a party to the contract. A change in the fair value of a non-financial
asset is specific to the owner if the fair value reflects not only changes in market prices for such assets (a
financial variable) but also the condition of the specific non-financial asset held (a non-financial variable). For
example, if a guarantee of the residual value of a specific car exposes the guarantor to the risk of changes in the
car’s physical condition, the change in that residual value is specific to the owner of the car.

<!-- page 118 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
118A
Financial Assets and Liabilities Held for Trading
BA.6 Trading generally reflects active and frequent buying and selling, and financial instruments held for trading
generally are used with the objective of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer’s
margin.
 BA.7 Financial liabilities held for trading include:
 (a) derivative liabilities that are not accounted for as hedging instruments;
(b) obligations to deliver financial assets borrowed by a short seller (ie an entity that sells financial assets
it has borrowed and does not yet own);
 (c) financial liabilities that are incurred with an intention to repurchase them in the near term (eg a quoted
debt instrument that the issuer may buy back in the near term depending on changes in its fair value);
and
 (d) financial liabilities that are part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed
together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
 BA.8 The fact that a liability is used to fund trading activities does not in itself make that liability one that is held for
trading.
Appendix C
Amendments to Other Standards
Except where otherwise stated, an entity shall apply the amendments in this appendix when it applies SLFRS 9 issued in
December 2014. These amendments incorporate with additions the amendments issued in Appendix C of SLFRS 9 in 2009,
2010 and 2013. The amendments in this appendix also incorporate the amendments made by Standards issued before
SLFRS 9 (2014), even if those other Standards were not mandatorily effective at the time SLFRS 9 (2014) was issued.
Notably, the amendments in this appendix incorporate the amendments made by SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.
SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka
Accounting Standards
C1 Paragraph 29 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 39B, 39G and 39U are deleted and paragraphs 29A and 39Y
are added:
 29 An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial asset as a financial asset measured at
fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph D19A. The entity shall disclose the fair value
of financial assets so designated at the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount in
the previous financial statements.
29A An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial liability as a financial liability at fair
value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph D19. The entity shall disclose the fair value of
financial liabilities so designated at the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount in
the previous financial statements.

<!-- page 119 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
119A
 39B [Deleted]
 39G [Deleted]
 39U [Deleted]
 39Y SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 29, B1–B6, D1, D14, D15,
D19 and D20, deleted paragraphs 39B, 39G and 39U and added paragraphs 29A, B8–B8G , B9, D19A–D19C,
D33, E1 and E2. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
 C2 In Appendix B, paragraphs B1–B6 are amended to read as follows, and a heading and paragraphs B8–B8G , and a
heading and paragraph B9 are added:
B 1 An entity shall apply the following exceptions:
(a) derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities (paragraphs B2 and B3);
(b) hedge accounting (paragraphs B4–B6);
(c) non-controlling interests (paragraph B7);
(d) classification and measurement of financial assets (paragraphs B8–B8C);
(e) impairment of financial assets (paragraphs B8D–B8G);
(f) embedded derivatives (paragraph B9); and
(g) government loans (paragraphs B10–B12).
Derecognition of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
B 2 Except as permitted by paragraph B3, a first-time adopter shall apply the derecognition requirements in
SLFRS 9 prospectively for transactions occurring on or after the date of transition to SLFRSs. For example,
if a first-time adopter derecognised non-derivative financial assets or non-derivative financial liabilities in
accordance with its previous GAAP as a result of a transaction that occurred before the date of transition
to SLFRSs, it shall not recognise those assets and liabilities in accordance with SLFRSs (unless they qualify
for recognition as a result of a later transaction or event).
 B3 Despite paragraph B2, an entity may apply the derecognition requirements in SLFRS 9 retrospectively from
a date of the entity’s choosing, provided that the information needed to apply SLFRS 9 to financial assets
and financial liabilities derecognised as a result of past transactions was obtained at the time of initially
accounting for those transactions.
Hedge Accounting
B 4 As required by SLFRS 9, at the date of transition to SLFRSs an entity shall:
(a) measure all derivatives at fair value; and
(b) eliminate all deferred losses and gains arising on derivatives that were reported in accordance
with previous GAAP as if they were assets or liabilities.

<!-- page 120 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
120A
B 5 An entity shall not reflect in its opening SLFRS statement of financial position a hedging relationship of a
type that does not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SLFRS 9 (for example, many hedging
relationships where the hedging instrument is a stand-alone written option or a net written option; or
where the hedged item is a net position in a cash flow hedge for another risk than foreign currency risk).
However, if an entity designated a net position as a hedged item in accordance with previous GAAP, it may
designate as a hedged item in accordance with SLFRSs an individual item within that net position, or a net
position if that meets the requirements in paragraph 6.6.1 of SLFRS 9, provided that it does so no later than
the date of transition to SLFRSs.
B 6 If, before the date of transition to SLFRSs, an entity had designated a transaction as a hedge but the hedge
does not meet the conditions for hedge accounting in SLFRS 9, the entity shall apply paragraphs 6.5.6 and
6.5.7 of SLFRS 9 to discontinue hedge accounting. Transactions entered into before the date of transition
to SLFRSs shall not be retrospectively designated as hedges.
Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments
B 8 An entity shall assess whether a financial asset meets the conditions in paragraph 4.1.2 or the conditions
in paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
transition to SLFRSs.
B8A If it is impracticable to assess a modified time value of money element in accordance with paragraphs
B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition
to SLFRSs, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on the
basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the date of transition to SLFRSs without taking into
account the requirements related to the modification of the time value of money element in paragraphs
B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9. (In this case, the entity shall also apply paragraph 42R of SLFRS 7 but
references to ‘paragraph 7.2.4 of SLFRS 9’ shall be read to mean this paragraph and references to ‘initial
recognition of the financial asset’ shall be read to mean ‘at the date of transition to SLFRSs’.)
B8B If it is impracticable to assess whether the fair value of a prepayment feature is insignificant in accordance
with paragraph B4.1.12(c) of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
transition to SLFRSs, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset
on the basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the date of transition to SLFRSs without taking
into account the exception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of SLFRS 9. (In this case, the
entity shall also apply paragraph 42S of SLFRS 7 but references to ‘paragraph 7.2.5 of SLFRS 9’ shall be
read to mean this paragraph and references to ‘initial recognition of the financial asset’ shall be read to
mean ‘at the date of transition to SLFRSs’.) B8C If it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity
to apply retrospectively the effective interest method in SLFRS 9, the fair value of the financial asset or the
financial liability at the date of transition to SLFRSs shall be the new gross carrying amount of that
financial asset or the new amortised cost of that financial liability at the date of transition to SLFRSs.
Impairment of Financial Assets
B8D An entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9 retrospectively subject to
paragraphs 7.2.15 and 7.2.18–7.2.20 of that SLFRS.
B8E At the date of transition to SLFRSs, an entity shall use reasonable and supportable information that is
available without undue cost or effort to determine the credit risk at the date that financial instruments were
initially recognised (or for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts the date that the entity
became a party to the irrevocable commitment in accordance with paragraph 5.5.6 of SLFRS 9) and compare
that to the credit risk at the date of transition to SLFRSs (also see paragraphs B7.2.2–B7.2.3 of SLFRS 9).

<!-- page 121 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
121A
B8F When determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, an
entity may apply:
(a) the requirements in paragraph 5.5.10 and B5.5.27–B5.5.29 of SLFRS 9; and
(b) the rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 of SLFRS 9 for contractual payments that are more
than 30 days past due if an entity will apply the impairment requirements by identifying significant
increases in credit risk since initial recognition for those financial instruments on the basis of past
due information.
B 8 G If, at the date of transition to SLFRSs, determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk since the initial recognition of a financial instrument would require undue cost or effort, an entity shall
recognise a loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date until
that financial instrument is derecognised (unless that financial instrument is low credit risk at a reporting
date, in which case paragraph B8E(a) applies).
Embedded Derivatives
B 9 A first-time adopter shall assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host
contract and accounted for as a derivative on the basis of the conditions that existed at the later of the date
it first became a party to the contract and the date a reassessment is required by paragraph B4.3.11 of
SLFRS 9.
C 3 In Appendix D, paragraphs D1, D14, D15, D19 and D20 and a heading above D19 are amended to read as follows
and paragraphs D19A–D19C and, after paragraph D32, a heading and paragraph D33 are added.
 D1 An entity may elect to use one or more of the following exemptions:
 (a) ...
 (j) designation of previously recognised financial instruments (paragraphs D19–D19C);
 (k) ...
 (r) joint arrangements (paragraph D31);
 (s) stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine (paragraph D32); and
 (t) designation of contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item (paragraph D33).
An entity shall not apply these exemptions by analogy to other items.
 D14 When an entity prepares separate financial statements, LKAS 27 requires it to account for its investments
in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates either:
 (a) at cost; or
 (b) in accordance with SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 122 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
122A
 D15 If a first-time adopter measures such an investment at cost in accordance with LKAS 27, it shall measure
that investment at one of the following amounts in its separate opening SLFRS statement of financial
position:
 (a) cost determined in accordance with LKAS 27; or
 (b) deemed cost. The deemed cost of such an investment shall be its:
 (i) fair value at the entity’s date of transition to SLFRSs in its separate financial statements; or
 (ii) previous GAAP carrying amount at that date.
A first-time adopter may choose either (i) or (ii) above to measure its investment in each subsidiary,
joint venture or associate that it elects to measure using a deemed cost.
Designation of Previously Recognised Financial Instruments
D19 SLFRS 9 permits a financial liability (provided it meets certain criteria) to be designated as a financial
liability at fair value through profit or loss. Despite this requirement an entity is permitted to designate, at
the date of transition to SLFRSs, any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss provided the
liability meets the criteria in paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 at that date.
D19A An e ntity may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
transition to SLFRSs.
 D19B An entity may designate an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist
at the date of transition to SLFRSs.
 D19C For a financial liability that is designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss, an entity
shall determine whether the treatment in paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS 9 would create an accounting mismatch
in profit or loss on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition to SLFRSs.
Fair Value Measurement of Financial Assets or Financial
Liabilities at Initial Recognition
D20 Despite the requirements of paragraphs 7 and 9, an entity may apply the requirements in paragraph
B5.1.2A(b) of SLFRS 9 prospectively to transactions entered into on or after the date of transition to
SLFRSs.
Designation of Contracts to Buy or Sell a Non-financial Item
D33 SLFRS 9 permits some contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item to be designated at inception as
measured at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph 2.5 of SLFRS 9). Despite this requirement an
entity is permitted to designate, at the date of transition to SLFRSs, contracts that already exist on that date
as measured at fair value through profit or loss but only if they meet the requirements of paragraph 2.5 of
SLFRS 9 at that date and the entity designates all similar contracts.
C 4 In Appendix E, a heading and paragraphs E1 and E2 are added:

<!-- page 123 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
123A
Exemption from the Requirement to Restate Comparative Information for SLFRS 9
E 1 If an entity’s first SLFRS reporting period begins before 1st January, 2019 and the entity applies the
completed version of SLFRS 9 (issued in 2014), the comparative information in the entity’s first SLFRS
financial statements need not comply with SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure or the completed
version of SLFRS 9 (2014), to the extent that the disclosures required by SLFRS 7 relate to items within the
scope of SLFRS 9. For such entities, references to the ‘date of transition to SLFRSs’ shall mean, in the case
of SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 (2014) only, the beginning of the first SLFRS reporting period.
 E2 An entity that chooses to present comparative information that does not comply with SLFRS 7 and the
completed version of SLFRS 9 (issued in 2014) in its first year of transition shall:
 (a) apply the requirements of its previous GAAP in place of the requirements of SLFRS 9 to comparative
information about items within the scope of SLFRS 9.
 (b) disclose this fact together with the basis used to prepare this information.
 (c) treat any adjustment between the statement of financial position at the comparative period’s reporting
date (ie the statement of financial position that includes comparative information under previous
GAAP) and the statement of financial position at the start of the first SLFRS reporting period (ie the
first period that includes information that complies with SLFRS 7 and the completed version of
SLFRS 9 (issued in 2014)) as arising from a change in accounting policy and give the disclosures
required by paragraph 28(a)–(e) and (f)(i) of LKAS 8. Paragraph 28(f)(i) applies only to amounts
presented in the statement of financial position at the comparative period’s reporting date.
 (d) apply paragraph 17(c) of LKAS 1 to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in SLFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance.
SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment
C 5 Paragraph 6 is amended to read as follows, and paragraph 63C is added.
 6 This SLFRS does not apply to share-based payment transactions in which the entity receives or acquires
goods or services under a contract within the scope of paragraphs 8–10 of LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation  [footnote omitted] or paragraphs 2.4–2.7 of SLFRS 9  Financial Instruments.
 63C SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment when it
applies SLFRS 9.
SLFRS 3 Business Combinations
C 6 Paragraphs 16, 42, 53, 56 and 58 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 64A, 64D and 64H are deleted and
paragraph 64L is added.
16 In some situations, SLFRSs provide for different accounting depending on how an entity classifies or
designates a particular asset or liability. Examples of classifications or designations that the acquirer shall
make on the basis of the pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date include but are not
limited to:
 (a) classification of particular financial assets and liabilities as measured at fair value through profit or
loss or at amortised cost, or as a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;

<!-- page 124 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
124A
 (b) designation of a derivative instrument as a hedging instrument in accordance with SLFRS 9; and
 (c) assessment of whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract in
accordance with SLFRS 9 (which is a matter of ‘classification’ as this SLFRS uses that term).
 42 In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall remeasure its previously held equity
interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognise the resulting gain or loss, if any, in
profit or loss or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. In prior reporting periods, the acquirer may
have recognised changes in the value of its equity interest in the acquiree in other comprehensive
income. If so, the amount that was recognised in other comprehensive income shall be recognised on the
same basis as would be required if the acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity
interest.
 53 Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a business combination. Those costs
include finder’s fees; advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting fees;
general administrative costs, including the costs of maintaining an internal acquisitions department; and
costs of registering and issuing debt and equity securities. The acquirer shall account for acquisition-
related costs as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the services are received, with
one exception. The costs to issue debt or equity securities shall be recognised in accordance with LKAS
32 and SLFRS 9.
 56 After initial recognition and until the liability is settled, cancelled or expires, the acquirer shall measure a
contingent liability recognised in a business combination at the higher of:
 (a) the amount that would be recognised in accordance with LKAS 37; and
 (b) the amount initially recognised less, if appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in
accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9.
 58 Some changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that the acquirer recognises after the acquisition
date may be the result of additional information that the acquirer obtained after that date about facts and
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. Such changes are measurement period adjustments in
accordance with paragraphs 45–49. However, changes resulting from events after the acquisition date,
such as meeting an earnings target, reaching a specified share price or reaching a milestone on a research
and development project, are not measurement period adjustments. The acquirer shall account for changes
in the fair value of contingent consideration that are not measurement period adjustments as follows: –
 (a) ...
 (b) Other contingent consideration that:
 (i) is within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and
changes in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9.
 (ii) is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and
changes in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss.
 64A [Deleted]
 64D [Deleted]
 64H [Deleted]

<!-- page 125 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
125A
 64L SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 16, 42, 53, 56, 58 and B41 and deleted
paragraphs 64A, 64D and 64H. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
 C7 In Appendix B, paragraph B41 is amended to read as follows:
 B41 The acquirer shall not recognise a separate valuation allowance as of the acquisition date for assets
acquired in a business combination that are measured at their acquisition-date fair values because the
effects of uncertainty about future cash flows are included in the fair value measure. For example, because
this SLFRS requires the acquirer to measure acquired receivables, including loans, at their acquisition-
date fair values in accounting for a business combination, the acquirer does not recognise a separate
valuation allowance for the contractual cash flows that are deemed to be uncollectible at that date or a loss
allowance for expected credit losses.
SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts
C 8 In the Introduction paragraph IN3 is amended to read as follows:
IN3 The SLFRS applies to all insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) that an entity issues and
to reinsurance contracts that it holds, except for specified contracts covered by other SLFRSs. It does not
apply to other assets and liabilities of an insurer, such as financial assets and financial liabilities within the
scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. Furthermore, it does not address accounting by policyholders.
 C9 Paragraphs 3, 4, 7, 8, 12, 34, 35 and 45 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 41C, 41D and 41F are deleted and
paragraph 41H is added:
 3 This SLFRS does not address other aspects of accounting by insurers, such as accounting for financial
assets held by insurers and financial liabilities issued by insurers (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments ), except in the transitional provisions in
paragraph 45.
 4 An entity shall not apply this SLFRS to:
 (a) ...
 (d) financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regards
such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts,
in which case the issuer may elect to apply either LKAS 32, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 or this SLFRS to
such financial guarantee contracts. The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the
election for each contract is irrevocable.
 (e) ...
 7 SLFRS 9 requires an entity to separate some embedded derivatives from their host contract, measure them
at fair value and include changes in their fair value in profit or loss. SLFRS 9 applies to derivatives
embedded in an insurance contract unless the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract.
 8 As an exception to the requirements in SLFRS 9, an insurer need not separate, and measure at fair value,
a policyholder’s option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount (or for an amount based on
a fixed amount and an interest rate), even if the exercise price differs from the carrying amount of the host
insurance liability . However, the requirements in SLFRS 9 do apply to a put option or cash surrender
option embedded in an insurance contract if the surrender value varies in response to the change in a
financial variable (such as an equity or commodity price or index), or a non-financial variable that is not
specific to a party to the contract. Furthermore, those requirements also apply if the holder’s ability to

<!-- page 126 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
126A
exercise a put option or cash surrender option is triggered by a change in such a variable (for example, a
put option that can be exercised if a stock market index reaches a specified level).
 12 To unbundle a contract, an insurer shall:
 (a) apply this SLFRS to the insurance component,
 (b) apply SLFRS 9 to the deposit component.
 34 Some insurance contracts contain a discretionary participation feature as well as a guaranteed element.
The issuer of such a contract:
 (a) ...
 (d) shall, if the contract contains an embedded derivative within the scope of SLFRS 9, apply SLFRS 9
to that embedded derivative.
 (e) ...
Discretionary Participation Features in Financial Instruments
35 The requirements in paragraph 34 also apply to a financial instrument that contains a discretionary
participation feature. In addition:
 (a) if the issuer classifies the entire discretionary participation feature as a liability, it shall apply the
liability adequacy test in paragraphs 15–19 to the whole contract (ie both the guaranteed element
and the discretionary participation feature). The issuer need not determine the amount that would
result from applying SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element.
 (b) if the issuer classifies part or all of that feature as a separate component of equity, the liability
recognised for the whole contract shall not be less than the amount that would result from applying
SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element. That amount shall include the intrinsic value of an option to
surrender the contract, but need not include its time value if paragraph 9 exempts that option from
measurement at fair value. The issuer need not disclose the amount that would result from applying
SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element, nor need it present that amount separately. Furthermore, the
issuer need not determine that amount if the total liability recognised is clearly higher.
 (c) ...
 41C [Deleted]
 41D [Deleted]
 41F [Deleted]
 41H SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 7, 8, 12, 34, 35, 45, Appendix A and
paragraphs B18–B20 and deleted paragraphs 41C, 41D and 41F. An entity shall apply those amendments
when it applies SLFRS 9.
 45 Notwithstanding paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9, when an insurer changes its accounting policies for insurance
liabilities, it is permitted, but not required, to reclassify some or all of its financial assets so that they are
measured at fair value through profit or loss. This reclassification is permitted if an insurer changes
accounting policies when it first applies this SLFRS and if it makes a subsequent policy change permitted
by paragraph 22. The reclassification is a change in accounting policy and LKAS 8 applies.

<!-- page 127 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
127A
C10 In Appendix A the defined term ‘deposit component’ is amended to read as follows:
Deposit component A contractual component that is not accounted for as a derivative under SLFRS 9 and
would be within the scope of SLFRS 9 if it were a separate instrument
C11 In Appendix B, paragraphs B18–B20 are amended to read as follows:
B18 The following are examples of contracts that are insurance contracts, if the transfer of insurance risk is
significant:
 (a) ...
 (g) credit insurance that provides for specified payments to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss
it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due under the original or modified
terms of a debt instrument. These contracts could have various legal forms, such as that of a
guarantee, some types of letter of credit, a credit derivative default contract or an insurance contract.
However, although these contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract, they also meet the
definition of a financial guarantee contract in SLFRS 9 and are within the scope of LKAS 32
[footnote omitted] and SLFRS 9, not this SLFRS (see paragraph 4(d)). Nevertheless, if an issuer of
financial guarantee contracts has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as
insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may
elect to apply either LKAS 32 [footnote omitted] and SLFRS 9 or this SLFRS to such financial
guarantee contracts.
 (h) ...
B19 The following are examples of items that are not insurance contracts:
 (a) ...
 (e) derivatives that expose one party to financial risk but not insurance risk, because they require that
party to make payment based solely on changes in one or more of a specified interest rate, financial
instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or
credit index or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not
specific to a party to the contract (see SLFRS 9).
 (f) a credit-related guarantee (or letter of credit, credit derivative default contract or credit insurance
contract) that requires payments even if the holder has not incurred a loss on the failure of the
debtor to make payments when due (see SLFRS 9).
 (g) ...
 B20 If the contracts described in paragraph B19 create financial assets or financial liabilities, they are within
the scope of SLFRS 9. Among other things, this means that the parties to the contract use what is
sometimes called deposit accounting, which involves the following:
 (a) ...

<!-- page 128 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
128A
SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations
C12 Paragraph 5 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 44F and 44J are deleted and paragraph 44K is added:
 5 The measurement provisions of this SLFRS [footnote omitted] do not apply to the following assets, which
are covered by the SLFRSs listed, either as individual assets or as part of a disposal group:
 (a) ...
 (c) financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
 (d) ...
 44F [Deleted]
 44J [Deleted]
 44K SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 5 and deleted paragraphs 44F and 44J. An entity
shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
C13 In the rubric, the reference to ‘Appendices A–D’ is amended to ‘Appendices A–C’. Paragraphs 2–5, 8–11, 14, 20,
28–30, 36 and 42C–42E are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 12, 12A, 16, 22–24, 37, 44E, 44F and 44H–44J,
44N, 44S–44W, 44Y are deleted and several headings and paragraphs 5A, 10A, 11A, 11B, 12B–12D, 16A, 20A,
21A–21D, 22A–22C, 23A–23F, 24A–24G, 35A–35N, 42I–42S, 44Z and 44ZA are added.
 2 The principles in this SLFRS complement the principles for recognising, measuring and presenting financial
assets and financial liabilities in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments.
Scope
3 This SLFRS shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments, except:
(a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance
with SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements , LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements
or LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10,
LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,
associate or joint venture using SLFRS 9; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements of
this SLFRS. Entities shall also apply this SLFRS to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries,
associates or joint ventures unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument in
LKAS 32.
 (b) ...
 (d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. However, this SLFRS applies to
derivatives that are embedded in insurance contracts if SLFRS 9 requires the entity to account
for them separately. Moreover, an issuer shall apply this SLFRS to financial guarantee contracts
if the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply SLFRS
4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4 in
recognising and measuring them.

<!-- page 129 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
129A
 (e) financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions to
which SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies, except that this SLFRS applies to contracts
within the scope of SLFRS 9.
 (f) ...
 4 This SLFRS applies to recognised and unrecognised financial instruments. Recognised financial
instruments include financial assets and financial liabilities that are within the scope of SLFRS 9.
Unrecognised financial instruments include some financial instruments that, although outside the scope
of SLFRS 9, are within the scope of this SLFRS.
5 This SLFRS applies to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that are within the scope of SLFRS 9.
 5A The credit risk disclosure requirements in paragraph 35A–35N apply to those rights that SLFRS 15
Revenue from Contracts with Customers specifies are accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 for the
purposes of recognising impairment gains or losses. Any reference to financial assets or financial
instruments in these paragraphs shall include those rights unless otherwise specified.
 8 The carrying amounts of each of the following categories, as specified in SLFRS 9, shall be disclosed
either in the statement of financial position or in the notes:
 (a) financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i) those
designated as such upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1
of SLFRS 9 and (ii) those mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with SLFRS 9.
 (b) –
 (d) [deleted]
 (e) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i) those designated as
such upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of SLFRS 9 and
(ii) those that meet the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9.
 (f) financial assets measured at amortised cost.
 (g) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
 (h) financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, showing separately
(i) financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9; and (ii) investments in equity instruments designated
as such upon initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9.
Financial Assets or Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
9 If the entity has designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss a financial asset (or group of
financial assets) that would otherwise be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income or
amortised cost, it shall disclose:
 (a) the maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(a)) of the financial asset (or group of
financial assets) at the end of the reporting period.
 (b) the amount by which any related credit derivatives or similar instruments mitigate that maximum
exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(b)).

<!-- page 130 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
130A
 (c) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial asset
(or group of financial assets) that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the financial asset
determined either:
(i) ...
 (d) the amount of the change in the fair value of any related credit derivatives or similar instruments
that has occurred during the period and cumulatively since the financial asset was designated.
 10 If the entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with
paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is required to present the effects of changes in that liability’s credit risk in
other comprehensive income (see paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS 9), it shall disclose:
 (a) the amount of change, cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to
changes in the credit risk of that liability (see paragraphs B5.7.13–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9 for guidance
on determining the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk).
 (b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amount and the amount the entity would be
contractually required to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
 (c) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during the period including the reason for
such transfers.
 (d) if a liability is derecognised during the period, the amount (if any) presented in other comprehensive
income that was realised at derecognition.
 10A If an entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with
paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is required to present all changes in the fair value of that liability (including
the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) in profit or loss (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of
SLFRS 9), it shall disclose:
 (a) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial liability
that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability (see paragraphs B5.7.13–B5.7.20 of
SLFRS 9 for guidance on determining the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk); and
 (b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amount and the amount the entity would be
contractually required to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
 11 The entity shall also disclose:
 (a) a detailed description of the methods used to comply with the requirements in paragraphs 9(c),
10(a) and 10A(a) and paragraph 5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9, including an explanation of why the method is
appropriate.
 (b) if the entity believes that the disclosure it has given, either in the statement of financial position or
in the notes, to comply with the requirements in paragraph 9(c), 10(a) or 10A(a) or paragraph
5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9 does not faithfully represent the change in the fair value of the financial asset
or financial liability attributable to changes in its credit risk, the reasons for reaching this conclusion
and the factors it believes are relevant.
 (c) a detailed description of the methodology or methodologies used to determine whether presenting
the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income would create or
enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9). If an

<!-- page 131 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
131A
entity is required to present the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk in profit or loss (see
paragraph 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9), the disclosure must include a detailed description of the economic
relationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 of SLFRS 9.
Investments in Equity Instruments Designated at Fair Value through Other
Comprehensive Income
11A If an entity has designated investments in equity instruments to be measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income, as permitted by paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9, it shall disclose:
 (a) which investments in equity instruments have been designated to be measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income.
 (b) the reasons for using this presentation alternative.
 (c) the fair value of each such investment at the end of the reporting period.
 (d) dividends recognised during the period, showing separately those related to investments
derecognised during the reporting period and those related to investments held at the end of the
reporting period.
 (e) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during the period including the reason
for such transfers.
 11B If an entity derecognised investments in equity instruments measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income during the reporting period, it shall disclose:
 (a) the reasons for disposing of the investments.
 (b) the fair value of the investments at the date of derecognition.
 (c) the cumulative gain or loss on disposal.
 12–
 12A [Deleted]
 12B An entity shall disclose if, in the current or previous reporting periods, it has reclassified any financial
assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9. For each such event, an entity shall disclose:
 (a) the date of reclassification.
 (b) a detailed explanation of the change in business model and a qualitative description of its effect on
the entity’s financial statements.
 (c) the amount reclassified into and out of each category.
 12C For each reporting period following reclassification until derecognition, an entity shall disclose for assets
reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category so that they are measured at amortised
cost or fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9:
 (a) the effective interest rate determined on the date of reclassification; and
 (b) the interest revenue recognised.

<!-- page 132 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
132A
 12D If, since its last annual reporting date, an entity has reclassified financial assets out of the fair value
through other comprehensive income category so that they are measured at amortised cost or out of the
fair value through profit or loss category so that they are measured at amortised cost or fair value through
other comprehensive income it shall disclose:
 (a) the fair value of the financial assets at the end of the reporting period; and
 (b) the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in profit or loss or other comprehensive
income during the reporting period if the financial assets had not been reclassified.
14 An entity shall disclose:
 (a) the carrying amount of financial assets it has pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingent
liabilities, including amounts that have been reclassified in accordance with paragraph 3.2.23(a) of
SLFRS 9; and
 (b) the terms and conditions relating to its pledge.
 16 [Deleted]
 16A The carrying amount of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9 is not reduced by a loss allowance and an entity shall not
present the loss allowance separately in the statement of financial position as a reduction of the carrying
amount of the financial asset. However, an entity shall disclose the loss allowance in the notes to the
financial statements.
 20 An entity shall disclose the following items of income, expense, gains or losses either in the statement of
comprehensive income or in the notes:
 (a) net gains or net losses on:
 (i) financial assets or financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, showing
separately those on financial assets or financial liabilities designated as such upon initial
recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of SLFRS 9, and those on
financial assets or financial liabilities that are mandatorily measured at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9 (eg financial liabilities that meet the definition of
held for trading in SLFRS 9). For financial liabilities designated as at fair value through
profit or loss, an entity shall show separately the amount of gain or loss recognised in
other comprehensive income and the amount recognised in profit or loss.
 (ii)–
 (iv) [deleted]
 (v) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
 (vi) financial assets measured at amortised cost.
 (vii) investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9.
 (viii) financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance
with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9, showing separately the amount of gain or loss recognised

<!-- page 133 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
133A
in other comprehensive income during the period and the amount reclassified upon
derecognition from accumulated other comprehensive income to profit or loss for the
period.
 (b) total interest revenue and total interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method)
for financial assets that are measured at amortised cost or that are measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9 (showing these
amounts separately); or financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value through profit or
loss.
 (c) fee income and expense (other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate)
arising from:
 (i) financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss; and
 (ii) trust and other fiduciary activities that result in the holding or investing of assets on behalf
of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans, and other institutions.
 (d) [deleted]
 (e) [deleted]
 20A An entity shall disclose an analysis of the gain or loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive
income arising from the derecognition of financial assets measured at amortised cost, showing separately
gains and losses arising from derecognition of those financial assets. This disclosure shall include the
reasons for derecognising those financial assets.
Hedge Accounting
21A An entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 21B–24F for those risk exposures that an
entity hedges and for which it elects to apply hedge accounting. Hedge accounting disclosures shall
provide information about:
 (a) an entity’s risk management strategy and how it is applied to manage risk;
 (b) how the entity’s hedging activities may affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of its future cash
flows; and
 (c) the effect that hedge accounting has had on the entity’s statement of financial position, statement
of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity.
 21B An entity shall present the required disclosures in a single note or separate section in its financial
statements. However, an entity need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere, provided
that the information is incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to some other statement,
such as a management commentary or risk report, that is available to users of the financial statements on
the same terms as the financial statements and at the same time. Without the information incorporated by
cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.
 21C When paragraphs 22A–24F require the entity to separate by risk category the information disclosed, the
entity shall determine each risk category on the basis of the risk exposures an entity decides to hedge and
for which hedge accounting is applied. An entity shall determine risk categories consistently for all hedge
accounting disclosures.

<!-- page 134 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
134A
 21D To meet the objectives in paragraph 21A, an entity shall (except as otherwise specified below) determine
how much detail to disclose, how much emphasis to place on different aspects of the disclosure
requirements, the appropriate level of aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of financial
statements need additional explanations to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed. However, an
entity shall use the same level of aggregation or disaggregation it uses for disclosure requirements of
related information in this SLFRS and SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Risk Management Strategy
22 [Deleted]
 22A An entity shall explain its risk management strategy for each risk category of risk exposures that it decides
to hedge and for which hedge accounting is applied. This explanation should enable users of financial
statements to evaluate (for example):
 (a) how each risk arises.
 (b) how the entity manages each risk; this includes whether the entity hedges an item in its entirety for
all risks or hedges a risk component (or components) of an item and why.
 (c) the extent of risk exposures that the entity manages.
 22B To meet the requirements in paragraph 22A, the information should include (but is not limited to) a
description of:
 (a) the hedging instruments that are used (and how they are used) to hedge risk exposures;
 (b) how the entity determines the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging
instrument for the purpose of assessing hedge effectiveness; and
 (c) how the entity establishes the hedge ratio and what the sources of hedge ineffectiveness are.
 22C When an entity designates a specific risk component as a hedged item (see paragraph 6.3.7 of SLFRS 9) it
shall provide, in addition to the disclosures required by paragraphs 22A and 22B, qualitative or quantitative
information about:
 (a) how the entity determined the risk component that is designated as the hedged item (including a
description of the nature of the relationship between the risk component and the item as a whole);
and
 (b) how the risk component relates to the item in its entirety (for example, the designated risk component
historically covered on average 80 per cent of the changes in fair value of the item as a whole).
The Amount, Timing and Uncertainty of Future Cash Flows
23 [Deleted]
 23A Unless exempted by paragraph 23C, an entity shall disclose by risk category quantitative information to
allow users of its financial statements to evaluate the terms and conditions of hedging instruments and
how they affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows of the entity.

<!-- page 135 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
135A
 23B To meet the requirement in paragraph 23A, an entity shall provide a breakdown that discloses:
 (a) a profile of the timing of the nominal amount of the hedging instrument; and
 (b) if applicable, the average price or rate (for example strike or forward prices etc) of the hedging
instrument.
 23C In situations in which an entity frequently resets (ie discontinues and restarts) hedging relationships
because both the hedging instrument and the hedged item frequently change (ie the entity uses a dynamic
process in which both the exposure and the hedging instruments used to manage that exposure do not
remain the same for long—such as in the example in paragraph B6.5.24(b) of SLFRS 9) the entity:
 (a) is exempt from providing the disclosures required by paragraphs 23A and 23B.
 (b) shall disclose:
 (i) information about what the ultimate risk management strategy is in relation to those hedging
relationships;
 (ii) a description of how it reflects its risk management strategy by using hedge accounting and
designating those particular hedging relationships; and
 (iii) an indication of how frequently the hedging relationships are discontinued and restarted as
part of the entity’s process in relation to those hedging relationships.
 23D An entity shall disclose by risk category a description of the sources of hedge ineffectiveness that are
expected to affect the hedging relationship during its term.
 23E If other sources of hedge ineffectiveness emerge in a hedging relationship, an entity shall disclose those
sources by risk category and explain the resulting hedge ineffectiveness.
 23F For cash flow hedges, an entity shall disclose a description of any forecast transaction for which hedge
accounting had been used in the previous period, but which is no longer expected to occur.
The Effects of Hedge Accounting on Financial Position and Performance
24 [Deleted]
 24A An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts related to items designated as hedging
instruments separately by risk category for each type of hedge (fair value hedge, cash flow hedge or
hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation):
 (a) the carrying amount of the hedging instruments (financial assets separately from financial liabilities);
 (b) the line item in the statement of financial position that includes the hedging instrument;
 (c) the change in fair value of the hedging instrument used as the basis for recognising hedge
ineffectiveness for the period; and
 (d) the nominal amounts (including quantities such as tonnes or cubic metres) of the hedging
instruments.

<!-- page 136 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
136A
 24B An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts related to hedged items separately by
risk category for the types of hedges as follows:
 (a) for fair value hedges:
 (i) the carrying amount of the hedged item recognised in the statement of financial position
(presenting assets separately from liabilities);
 (ii) the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments on the hedged item included in the
carrying amount of the hedged item recognised in the statement of financial position
(presenting assets separately from liabilities);
 (iii) the line item in the statement of financial position that includes the hedged item;
 (iv) the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis for recognising hedge ineffectiveness
for the period; and
 (v) the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the statement of financial
position for any hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses
in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10 of SLFRS 9.
 (b) for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation:
 (i) the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis for recognising hedge ineffectiveness
for the period (ie for cash flow hedges the change in value used to determine the recognised
hedge ineffectiveness in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(c) of SLFRS 9);
 (ii) the balances in the cash flow hedge reserve and the foreign currency translation reserve for
continuing hedges that are accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.11 and 6.5.13(a) of
SLFRS 9; and
 (iii) the balances remaining in the cash flow hedge reserve and the foreign currency translation
reserve from any hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer applied.
 24C An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts separately by risk category for the
types of hedges as follows:
 (a) for fair value hedges:
 (i) hedge ineffectiveness—ie the difference between the hedging gains or losses of the hedging
instrument and the hedged item—recognised in profit or loss (or other comprehensive income
for hedges of an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair
value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9); and
 (ii) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that includes the recognised hedge
ineffectiveness.
 (b) for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation:
 (i) hedging gains or losses of the reporting period that were recognised in other comprehensive
income;
 (ii) hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss;

<!-- page 137 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
137A
 (iii) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that includes the recognised hedge
ineffectiveness;
 (iv) the amount reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve or the foreign currency translation
reserve into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) (differentiating between
amounts for which hedge accounting had previously been used, but for which the hedged
future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, and amounts that have been transferred
because the hedged item has affected profit or loss);
 (v) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that includes the reclassification
adjustment (see LKAS 1); and
 (vi) for hedges of net positions, the hedging gains or losses recognised in a separate line item in
the statement of comprehensive income (see paragraph 6.6.4 of SLFRS 9).
 24D When the volume of hedging relationships to which the exemption in paragraph 23C applies is
unrepresentative of normal volumes during the period (ie the volume at the reporting date does not reflect
the volumes during the period) an entity shall disclose that fact and the reason it believes the volumes are
unrepresentative.
 24E An entity shall provide a reconciliation of each component of equity and an analysis of other comprehensive
income in accordance with LKAS 1 that, taken together:
 (a) differentiates, at a minimum, between the amounts that relate to the disclosures in paragraph
24C(b)(i) and (b)(iv) as well as the amounts accounted for in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(d)(i)
and (d)(iii) of SLFRS 9;
 (b) differentiates between the amounts associated with the time value of options that hedge transaction
related hedged items and the amounts associated with the time value of options that hedge time-
period related hedged items when an entity accounts for the time value of an option in accordance
with paragraph 6.5.15 of SLFRS 9; and
 (c) differentiates between the amounts associated with forward elements of forward contracts and the
foreign currency basis spreads of financial instruments that hedge transaction related hedged
items, and the amounts associated with forward elements of forward contracts and the foreign
currency basis spreads of financial instruments that hedge time-period related hedged items when
an entity accounts for those amounts in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 of SLFRS 9.
 24F An entity shall disclose the information required in paragraph 24E separately by risk category. This
disaggregation by risk may be provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Option to Designate a Credit Exposure as Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss
24G If an entity designated a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, as measured at fair value through profit
or loss because it uses a credit derivative to manage the credit risk of that financial instrument it shall
disclose:
(a) for credit derivatives that have been used to manage the credit risk of financial instruments
designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of
SLFRS 9, a reconciliation of each of the nominal amount and the fair value at the beginning and at
the end of the period;

<!-- page 138 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
138A
 (b) the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss on designation of a financial instrument, or a proportion
of it, as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of SLFRS
9; and
 (c) on discontinuation of measuring a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, at fair value through
profit or loss, that financial instrument’s fair value that has become the new carrying amount in
accordance with paragraph 6.7.4(b) of SLFRS 9 and the related nominal or principal amount (except
for providing comparative information in accordance with LKAS 1, an entity does not need to
continue this disclosure in subsequent periods).
28 In some cases, an entity does not recognise a gain or loss on initial recognition of a financial asset or
financial liability because the fair value is neither evidenced by a quoted price in an active market for an
identical asset or liability (ie a Level 1 input) nor based on a valuation technique that uses only data from
observable markets (see paragraph B5.1.2A of SLFRS 9). In such cases, the entity shall disclose by class
of financial asset or financial liability:
 (a) its accounting policy for recognising in profit or loss the difference between the fair value at initial
recognition and the transaction price to reflect a change in factors (including time) that market
participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability (see paragraph B5.1.2A(b)
of SLFRS 9).
 (b) the aggregate difference yet to be recognised in profit or loss at the beginning and end of the
period and a reconciliation of changes in the balance of this difference.
 (c) why the entity concluded that the transaction price was not the best evidence of fair value, including
a description of the evidence that supports the fair value.
29 Disclosures of fair value are not required:
 (a) ...
 (b) [deleted]
 (c) ...
 30 In the case described in paragraph 29(c), an entity shall disclose information to help users of the financial
statements make their own judgements about the extent of possible differences between the carrying
amount of those contracts and their fair value, including:
 (a) ...
Credit Risk
Scope and Objectives
35A An entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 35F–35N to financial instruments to
which the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9 are applied. However:
 (a) for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables, paragraph 35J applies to those trade
receivables, contract assets or lease receivables on which lifetime expected credit losses are
recognised in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9, if those financial assets are modified
while more than 30 days past due; and
 (b) paragraph 35K(b) does not apply to lease receivables.

<!-- page 139 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
139A
 35B The credit risk disclosures made in accordance with paragraphs 35F–35N shall enable users of financial
statements to understand the effect of credit risk on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash
flows. To achieve this objective, credit risk disclosures shall provide:
 (a) information about an entity’s credit risk management practices and how they relate to the recognition
and measurement of expected credit losses, including the methods, assumptions and information
used to measure expected credit losses;
 (b) quantitative and qualitative information that allows users of financial statements to evaluate the
amounts in the financial statements arising from expected credit losses, including changes in the
amount of expected credit losses and the reasons for those changes; and
 (c) information about an entity’s credit risk exposure (ie the credit risk inherent in an entity’s financial
assets and commitments to extend credit) including significant credit risk concentrations.
 35C An entity need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere, provided that the information
is incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to other statements, such as a management
commentary or risk report that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the
financial statements and at the same time. Without the information incorporated by cross-reference, the
financial statements are incomplete.
 35D To meet the objectives in paragraph 35B, an entity shall (except as otherwise specified) consider how
much detail to disclose, how much emphasis to place on different aspects of the disclosure requirements,
the appropriate level of aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of financial statements need
additional explanations to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed.
 35E If the disclosures provided in accordance with paragraphs 35F–35N are insufficient to meet the objectives
in paragraph 35B, an entity shall disclose additional information that is necessary to meet those objectives.
The Credit Risk Management Practices
35F An entity shall explain its credit risk management practices and how they relate to the recognition and
measurement of expected credit losses. To meet this objective an entity shall disclose information that
enables users of financial statements to understand and evaluate:
 (a) how an entity determined whether the credit risk of financial instruments has increased significantly
since initial recognition, including, if and how:
 (i) financial instruments are considered to have low credit risk in accordance with paragraph
5.5.10 of SLFRS 9, including the classes of financial instruments to which it applies; and
 (ii)the presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 of SLFRS 9, that there have been significant increases in
credit risk since initial recognition when financial assets are more than 30 days past due, has
been rebutted;
 (b) an entity’s definitions of default, including the reasons for selecting those definitions;
 (c) how the instruments were grouped if expected credit losses were measured on a collective basis;
 (d) how an entity determined that financial assets are credit-impaired financial assets;
 (e) an entity’s write-off policy, including the indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of
recovery and information about the policy for financial assets that are written-off but are still
subject to enforcement activity; and

<!-- page 140 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
140A
 (f) how the requirements in paragraph 5.5.12 of SLFRS 9 for the modification of contractual cash flows
of financial assets have been applied, including how an entity:
 (i) determines whether the credit risk on a financial asset that has been modified while the loss
allowance was measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, has improved to
the extent that the loss allowance reverts to being measured at an amount equal to 12-month
expected credit losses in accordance with paragraph 5.5.5 of SLFRS 9; and
 (ii) monitors the extent to which the loss allowance on financial assets meeting the criteria in (i) is
subsequently remeasured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses in accordance
with paragraph 5.5.3 of SLFRS 9.
 35G An entity shall explain the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used to apply the requirements
in Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9. For this purpose an entity shall disclose:
 (a) the basis of inputs and assumptions and the estimation techniques used to:
 (i) measure the 12-month and lifetime expected credit losses;
 (ii) determine whether the credit risk of financial instruments have increased significantly
since initial recognition; and
 (iii) determine whether a financial asset is a credit-impaired financial asset.
 (b) how forward-looking information has been incorporated into the determination of expected credit
losses, including the use of macroeconomic information; and
 (c) changes in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the reporting period
and the reasons for those changes.
Quantitative and Aualitative Information about Amounts Arising from Expected Credit Losses
35H To explain the changes in the loss allowance and the reasons for those changes, an entity shall provide,
by class of financial instrument, a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance of the
loss allowance, in a table, showing separately the changes during the period for:
 (a) the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses;
 (b) the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for:
 (i) financial instruments for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition
but that are not credit-impaired financial assets;
 (ii) financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased or
originated credit-impaired); and
 (iii) trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables for which the loss allowances are
measured in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9.
 (c) financial assets that are purchased or originated credit-impaired. In addition to the reconciliation,
an entity shall disclose the total amount of undiscounted expected credit losses at initial recognition
on financial assets initially recognised during the reporting period.

<!-- page 141 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
141A
 35I To enable users of financial statements to understand the changes in the loss allowance disclosed in
accordance with paragraph 35H, an entity shall provide an explanation of how significant changes in the
gross carrying amount of financial instruments during the period contributed to changes in the loss
allowance. The information shall be provided separately for financial instruments that represent the loss
allowance as listed in paragraph 35H(a)–(c) and shall include relevant qualitative and quantitative
information. Examples of changes in the gross carrying amount of financial instruments that contributed
to the changes in the loss allowance may include:
 (a) changes because of financial instruments originated or acquired during the reporting period;
 (b) the modification of contractual cash flows on financial assets that do not result in a derecognition
of those financial assets in accordance with SLFRS 9;
 (c) changes because of financial instruments that were derecognised (including those that were written-
off) during the reporting period; and
 (d) changes arising from whether the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month or
lifetime expected credit losses.
 35J To enable users of financial statements to understand the nature and effect of modifications of contractual
cash flows on financial assets that have not resulted in derecognition and the effect of such modifications
on the measurement of expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose:
 (a) the amortised cost before the modification and the net modification gain or loss recognised for
financial assets for which the contractual cash flows have been modified during the reporting
period while they had a loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit
losses; and
 (b) the gross carrying amount at the end of the reporting period of financial assets that have been
modified since initial recognition at a time when the loss allowance was measured at an amount
equal to lifetime expected credit losses and for which the loss allowance has changed during the
reporting period to an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.
 35K To enable users of financial statements to understand the effect of collateral and other credit enhancements
on the amounts arising from expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument:
 (a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting
period without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (eg netting
agreements that do not qualify for offset in accordance with LKAS 32).
 (b) a narrative description of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements, including:
 (i) a description of the nature and quality of the collateral held;
 (ii) an explanation of any significant changes in the quality of that collateral or credit
enhancements as a result of deterioration or changes in the collateral policies of the entity
during the reporting period; and
 (iii) information about financial instruments for which an entity has not recognised a loss
allowance because of the collateral.
 (c) quantitative information about the collateral held as security and other credit enhancements (for
example, quantification of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigate
credit risk) for financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date.

<!-- page 142 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
142A
 35L An entity shall disclose the contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written off
during the reporting period and are still subject to enforcement activity.
Credit Risk Exposure
35M To enable users of financial statements to assess an entity’s credit risk exposure and understand its
significant credit risk concentrations, an entity shall disclose, by credit risk rating grades , the gross
carrying amount of financial assets and the exposure to credit risk on loan commitments and financial
guarantee contracts. This information shall be provided separately for financial instruments:
 (a) for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses;
 (b) for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses and
that are:
 (i) financial instruments for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition
but that are not credit-impaired financial assets;
 (ii) financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased or
originated credit-impaired); and
 (iii) trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables for which the loss allowances are
measured in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9.
 (c) that are purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets.
 35N For trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables to which an entity applies paragraph 5.5.15 of
SLFRS 9, the information provided in accordance with paragraph 35M may be based on a provision matrix
(see paragraph B5.5.35 of SLFRS 9).
 36 For all financial instruments within the scope of this SLFRS, but to which the impairment requirements in
SLFRS 9 are not applied, an entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument:
 (a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting
period without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (eg netting
agreements that do not quality for offset in accordance with LKAS 32); this disclosure is not
required for financial instruments whose carrying amount best represents the maximum exposure to
credit risk.
 (b) a description of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements, and their financial effect
(eg quantification of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigate credit
risk) in respect of the amount that best represents the maximum exposure to credit risk (whether
disclosed in accordance with (a) or represented by the carrying amount of a financial instrument).
 (c) [deleted]
 (d) ...
 37 [Deleted]
 42C For the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E–42H, an entity has continuing
involvement in a transferred financial asset if, as part of the transfer, the entity retains any of the contractual
rights or obligations inherent in the transferred financial asset or obtains any new contractual rights or

<!-- page 143 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
143A
obligations relating to the transferred financial asset. For the purposes of applying the disclosure
requirements in paragraphs 42E–42H, the following do not constitute continuing involvement:
 (a) ...
 (b) an arrangement whereby an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a
financial asset but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more entities
and the conditions in paragraph 3.2.5(a)–(c) of SLFRS 9 are met.
Transferred Financial Assets That are Not Derecognised in Their Entirety
42D An entity may have transferred financial assets in such a way that part or all of the transferred financial
assets do not qualify for derecognition. To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(a), the entity shall
disclose at each reporting date for each class of transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in
their entirety:
 (a) ...
 (f) when the entity continues to recognise the assets to the extent of its continuing involvement (see
paragraphs 3.2.6(c)(ii) and 3.2.16 of SLFRS 9), the total carrying amount of the original assets
before the transfer, the carrying amount of the assets that the entity continues to recognise, and
the carrying amount of the associated liabilities.
Transferred financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety
42E To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(b), when an entity derecognises transferred financial
assets in their entirety (see paragraph 3.2.6(a) and (c)(i) of SLFRS 9) but has continuing involvement in
them, the entity shall disclose, as a minimum, for each type of continuing involvement at each reporting
date:
 (a) ...
Initial Application of SLFRS 9
42I In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, the entity shall disclose the
following information for each class of financial assets and financial liabilities as at the date of initial
application:
 (a) the original measurement category and carrying amount determined in accordance with LKAS 39
or in accordance with a previous version of SLFRS 9 (if the entity’s chosen approach to applying
SLFRS 9 involves more than one date of initial application for different requirements);
 (b) the new measurement category and carrying amount determined in accordance with SLFRS 9;
 (c) the amount of any financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position
that were previously designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss but are no longer
so designated, distinguishing between those that SLFRS 9 requires an entity to reclassify and
those that an entity elects to reclassify at the date of initial application.
In accordance with paragraph 7.2.2 of SLFRS 9, depending on the entity’s chosen approach to applying
SLFRS 9, the transition can involve more than one date of initial application. Therefore this paragraph may
result in disclosure on more than one date of initial application. An entity shall present these quantitative
disclosures in a table unless another format is more appropriate.

<!-- page 144 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
144A
 42J In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, an entity shall disclose
qualitative information to enable users to understand:
 (a) how it applied the classification requirements in SLFRS 9 to those financial assets whose
classification has changed as a result of applying SLFRS 9.
 (b) the reasons for any designation or de-designation of financial assets or financial liabilities as
measured at fair value through profit or loss at the date of initial application. In accordance with
paragraph 7.2.2 of SLFRS 9, depending on the entity’s chosen approach to applying SLFRS 9, the
transition can involve more than one date of initial application. Therefore this paragraph may result
in disclosure on more than one date of initial application.
 42K In the reporting period that an entity first applies the classification and measurement requirements for
financial assets in SLFRS 9 (ie when the entity transitions from LKAS 39 to SLFRS 9 for financial assets),
it shall present the disclosures set out in paragraphs 42L–42O of this SLFRS as required by paragraph
7.2.15 of SLFRS 9.
 42L When required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the changes in the classifications of financial
assets and financial liabilities as at the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, showing separately:
 (a) the changes in the carrying amounts on the basis of their measurement categories in accordance
with LKAS 39 (ie not resulting from a change in measurement attribute on transition to SLFRS 9);
and
 (b) the changes in the carrying amounts arising from a change in measurement attribute on transition
to SLFRS 9.
The disclosures in this paragraph need not be made after the annual reporting period in which the entity
initially applies the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 9.
 42M When required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the following for financial assets and financial
liabilities that have been reclassified so that they are measured at amortised cost and, in the case of
financial assets, that have been reclassified out of fair value through profit or loss so that they are
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, as a result of the transition to SLFRS 9:
 (a) the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period; and
 (b) the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in profit or loss or other comprehensive
income during the reporting period if the financial assets or financial liabilities had not been
reclassified.
The disclosures in this paragraph need not be made after the annual reporting period in which the entity
initially applies the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 9.
 42N When required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the following for financial assets and financial
liabilities that have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category as a result of the
transition to SLFRS 9:
 (a) the effective interest rate determined on the date of initial application; and
 (b) the interest revenue or expense recognised.
If an entity treats the fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability as the new gross carrying
amount at the date of initial application (see paragraph 7.2.11 of SLFRS 9), the disclosures in this

<!-- page 145 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
145A
paragraph shall be made for each reporting period until derecognition. Otherwise, the disclosures in
this paragraph need not be made after the annual reporting period in which the entity initially applies
the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 9.
 42O When an entity presents the disclosures set out in paragraphs 42K–42N, those disclosures, and the
disclosures in paragraph 25 of this SLFRS, must permit reconciliation between:
 (a) the measurement categories presented in accordance with LKAS 39 and SLFRS 9; and
 (b) the class of financial instrument
as at the date of initial application.
 42P On the date of initial application of Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9, an entity is required to disclose information that
would permit the reconciliation of the ending impairment allowances in accordance with LKAS 39 and the
provisions in accordance with LKAS 37 to the opening loss allowances determined in accordance with
SLFRS 9. For financial assets, this disclosure shall be provided by the related financial assets’ measurement
categories in accordance with LKAS 39 and SLFRS 9, and shall show separately the effect of the changes
in the measurement category on the loss allowance at that date.
 42Q In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, an entity is not required to
disclose the line item amounts that would have been reported in accordance with the classification and
measurement requirements (which includes the requirements related to amortised cost measurement of
financial assets and impairment in Sections 5.4 and 5.5 of SLFRS 9) of:
 (a) SLFRS 9 for prior periods; and
 (b) LKAS 39 for the current period.
 42R In accordance with paragraph 7.2.4 of SLFRS 9, if it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) at the date of
initial application of SLFRS 9 for an entity to assess a modified time value of money element in accordance
with paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the
initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of
that financial asset based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the
financial asset without taking into account the requirements related to the modification of the time value
of money element in paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9. An entity shall disclose the carrying amount
at the reporting date of the financial assets whose contractual cash flow characteristics have been assessed
based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset without
taking into account the requirements related to the modification of the time value of money element in
paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 until those financial assets are derecognised.
42S In accordance with paragraph 7.2.5 of SLFRS 9, if it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) at the date of
initial application for an entity to assess whether the fair value of a prepayment feature was insignificant
in accordance with paragraphs B4.1.12(d) of SLFRS 9 based on the facts and circumstances that existed at
the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics
of that financial asset based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the
financial asset without taking into account the exception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of
SLFRS 9. An entity shall disclose the carrying amount at the reporting date of the financial assets whose
contractual cash flow characteristics have been assessed based on the facts and circumstances that
existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account the exception for
prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of SLFRS 9 until those financial assets are derecognised.

<!-- page 146 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
146A
Effective Date and Transition
 44E [Deleted]
 44F [Deleted]
 44H–
 44J [Deleted]
 44N [Deleted]
 44S–
 44W [Deleted]
44Y [Deleted]
 44Z SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2–5, 8–11, 14, 20, 28–30, 36, 42C–42E, Appendix
A and paragraphs B1, B5, B9, B10, B22 and B27, deleted paragraphs 12, 12A, 16, 22–24, 37, 44E, 44F, 44H–
44J, 44N, 44S–44W, 44Y , B4 and Appendix D and added paragraphs 5A, 10A, 11A, 11B, 12B–12D, 16A,
20A, 21A–21D, 22A–22C, 23A–23F, 24A–24G, 35A–35N, 42I–42S, 44ZA and B8A–B8J. An entity shall
apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9. Those amendments need not be applied to comparative
information provided for periods before the date of initial application of SLFRS 9.
 44ZA In accordance with paragraph 7.1.2 of SLFRS 9, for annual reporting periods prior to 1st January 2018, an
entity may elect to early apply only the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial
liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 and
B5.7.5–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9 without applying the other requirements in SLFRS 9. If an entity elects to apply
only those paragraphs of SLFRS 9, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the related
disclosures set out in paragraphs 10–11 of this SLFRS (as amended by SLFRS 9).
C14 In Appendix A, the definition of ‘credit risk rating grades’ is added, the definition of ‘past due’ is deleted and the
last paragraph is amended to read as follows:
Credit risk rating Rating of credit risk based on the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument.
grades
The following terms are defined in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32, paragraph 9 of LKAS 39, Appendix A of SLFRS 9 or
Appendix A of SLFRS 13 and are used in this SLFRS with the meaning specified in LKAS 32, LKAS 39, SLFRS 9 and
SLFRS 13.
 amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
 contract asset
 credit-impaired financial assets
 derecognition
 derivative
 dividends
 effective interest method

<!-- page 147 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
147A
 equity instrument
 expected credit losses
 fair value
 financial asset
 financial guarantee contract
 financial instrument
 financial liability
 financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
 forecast transaction
 gross carrying amount
 hedging instrument
 held for trading
 impairment gains or losses
 loss allowance
 purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
 reclassification date
 regular way purchase or sale.
 C15 In Appendix B, paragraphs B1, B5, B9, B10, B22 and B27 are amended to read as follows, the heading above
paragraph B4 and paragraph B4 are deleted and the heading above paragraph B8A and paragraphs B8A–B8J are
added:
B 1 Paragraph 6 requires an entity to group financial instruments into classes that are appropriate to the
nature of the information disclosed and that take into account the characteristics of those financial
instruments. The classes described in paragraph 6 are determined by the entity and are, thus, distinct from
the categories of financial instruments specified in SLFRS 9 (which determine how financial instruments
are measured and where changes in fair value are recognised).
 B4 [Deleted]
 B5 Paragraph 21 requires disclosure of the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial
statements and the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial
statements. For financial instruments, such disclosure may include:
 (a) for financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss:
 (i) the nature of the financial liabilities the entity has designated as at fair value through profit
or loss;

<!-- page 148 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
148A
 (ii) the criteria for so designating such financial liabilities on initial recognition; and
 (iii) how the entity has satisfied the conditions in paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 for such designation.
 (aa) for financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss:
 (i) the nature of the financial assets the entity has designated as measured at fair value through
profit or loss; and
 (ii) how the entity has satisfied the criteria in paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9 for such designation.
 (b) [deleted]
 (c) whether regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date or at
settlement date (see paragraph 3.1.2 of SLFRS 9).
 (d) [deleted]
 (e) ...
 (f) [deleted]
 (g) [deleted]
Credit Risk Management Practices (paragraphs 35F–35G)
B8A Paragraph 35F(b) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity has defined default for
different financial instruments and the reasons for selecting those definitions. In accordance with paragraph
5.5.9 of SLFRS 9, the determination of whether lifetime expected credit losses should be recognised is
based on the increase in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition. Information about an
entity’s definitions of default that will assist users of financial statements in understanding how an entity
has applied the expected credit loss requirements in SLFRS 9 may include:
 (a) the qualitative and quantitative factors considered in defining default;
 (b) whether different definitions have been applied to different types of financial instruments; and
 (c) assumptions about the cure rate (ie the number of financial assets that return to a performing
status) after a default occurred on the financial asset.
 B8B To assist users of financial statements in evaluating an entity’s restructuring and modification policies,
paragraph 35F(f)(i) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity monitors the extent to
which the loss allowance on financial assets previously disclosed in accordance with paragraph 35F(f)(i)
are subsequently measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses in accordance with
paragraph 5.5.3 of SLFRS 9. Quantitative information that will assist users in understanding the subsequent
increase in credit risk of modified financial assets may include information about modified financial assets
meeting the criteria in paragraph 35F(f)(i) for which the loss allowance has reverted to being measured at
an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses (ie a deterioration rate).
 B8C Paragraph 35G(a) requires the disclosure of information about the basis of inputs and assumptions and
the estimation techniques used to apply the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9. An entity’s assumptions
and inputs used to measure expected credit losses or determine the extent of increases in credit risk since

<!-- page 149 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
149A
initial recognition may include information obtained from internal historical information or rating reports
and assumptions about the expected life of financial instruments and the timing of the sale of collateral.
Changes in the Loss Allowance (paragraph 35H)
B8D In accordance with paragraph 35H, an entity is required to explain the reasons for the changes in the loss
allowance during the period. In addition to the reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing
balance of the loss allowance, it may be necessary to provide a narrative explanation of the changes. This
narrative explanation may include an analysis of the reasons for changes in the loss allowance during the
period, including:
 (a) the portfolio composition;
 (b) the volume of financial instruments purchased or originated; and
 (c) the severity of the expected credit losses
 B8E For loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts the loss allowance is recognised as a provision.
An entity should disclose information about the changes in the loss allowance for financial assets separately
from those for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts. However, if a financial instrument
includes both a loan (ie financial asset) and an undrawn commitment (ie loan commitment) component and
the entity cannot separately identify the expected credit losses on the loan commitment component from
those on the financial asset component, the expected credit losses on the loan commitment should be
recognised together with the loss allowance for the financial asset. To the extent that the combined
expected credit losses exceed the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, the expected credit losses
should be recognised as a provision.
Collateral (paragraph 35K)
B8F Paragraph 35K requires the disclosure of information that will enable users of financial statements to
understand the effect of collateral and other credit enhancements on the amount of expected credit losses.
An entity is neither required to disclose information about the fair value of collateral and other credit
enhancements nor is it required to quantify the exact value of the collateral that was included in the
calculation of expected credit losses (ie the loss given default).
 B8G A narrative description of collateral and its effect on amounts of expected credit losses might include
information about:
 (a) the main types of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements (examples of the latter
being guarantees, credit derivatives and netting agreements that do not qualify for offset in
accordance with LKAS 32);
 (b) the volume of collateral held and other credit enhancements and its significance in terms of the loss
allowance;
 (c) the policies and processes for valuing and managing collateral and other credit enhancements;
 (d) the main types of counterparties to collateral and other credit enhancements and their
creditworthiness; and
 (e) information about risk concentrations within the collateral and other credit enhancements.

<!-- page 150 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
150A
Credit Risk Exposure (paragraphs 35M–35N)
B8H Paragraph 35M requires the disclosure of information about an entity’s credit risk exposure and significant
concentrations of credit risk at the reporting date. A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of
counterparties are located in a geographical region or are engaged in similar activities and have similar
economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly
affected by changes in economic or other conditions. An entity should provide information that enables
users of financial statements to understand whether there are groups or portfolios of financial instruments
with particular features that could affect a large portion of that group of financial instruments such as
concentration to particular risks. This could include, for example, loan-to-value groupings, geographical,
industry or issuer-type concentrations.
 B8I The number of credit risk rating grades used to disclose the information in accordance with paragraph
35M shall be consistent with the number that the entity reports to key management personnel for credit
risk management purposes. If past due information is the only borrower-specific information available and
an entity uses past due information to assess whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial
recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.5.10 of SLFRS 9, an entity shall provide an analysis by past
due status for those financial assets.
 B8J When an entity has measured expected credit losses on a collective basis, the entity may not be able to
allocate the gross carrying amount of individual financial assets or the exposure to credit risk on loan
commitments and financial guarantee contracts to the credit risk rating grades for which lifetime expected
credit losses are recognised. In that case, an entity should apply the requirement in paragraph 35M to
those financial instruments that can be directly allocated to a credit risk rating grade and disclose separately
the gross carrying amount of financial instruments for which lifetime expected credit losses have been
measured on a collective basis.
 B9 Paragraphs 35K(a) and 36(a) require disclosure of the amount that best represents the entity’s maximum
exposure to credit risk. For a financial asset, this is typically the gross carrying amount, net of:
 (a) ...
 (b) any loss allowance recognised in accordance with SLFRS 9.
 B10 Activities that give rise to credit risk and the associated maximum exposure to credit risk include, but are
not limited to:
 (a) granting loans to customers and placing deposits with other entities. In these cases, the maximum
exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of the related financial assets.
 (b) ...
B22 Interest rate risk arises on interest-bearing financial instruments recognised in the statement of financial
position (eg debt instruments acquired or issued) and on some financial instruments not recognised in the
statement of financial position (eg some loan commitments). B27 In accordance with paragraph 40(a), the
sensitivity of profit or loss (that arises, for example, from instruments measured at fair value through profit
or loss) is disclosed separately from the sensitivity of other comprehensive income (that arises, for
example, from investments in equity instruments whose changes in fair value are presented in other
comprehensive income).
C16 Appendix D is deleted.

<!-- page 151 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
151A
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (issued  in 2012)
C17 [Deleted]
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (issued  in 2012)
C18 Paragraphs 7.1.1 and 7.3.2 are amended to read as follows, and paragraph 7.1.1A is added:
* [Deleted]
7.1.1 SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 superseded this Standard. An entity shall apply SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 for
annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2018. However, for annual periods beginning before 1st
January 2018, an entity may elect to apply this Standard if, and only if, the entity’s date of initial application
is before 1st February 2015. If an entity elects to apply this Standard and has not already applied SLFRS
9, it must apply all of the requirements in this Standard at the same time (but see also paragraphs 7.1.1A
and 7.3.2). If an entity applies this Standard, it shall disclose that fact and at the same time apply the
amendments in Appendix C.
 7.1.1A Despite the requirements in paragraph 7.1.1, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018, an
entity may elect to apply the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities
designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.13 and B5.7.5–
B5.7.20 without applying the other requirements in this Standard. If an entity elects to apply only those
paragraphs, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the disclosures set out in paragraphs
10–11 of SLFRS 7 (as amended by this Standard).
 7.3.2 [Deleted]
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (Hedge Accounting and Amendments to SLFRS 9,
SLFRS 7 and LKAS 39)
C19 Paragraphs 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.3.2 are amended to read as follows:
7.1.1 SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 superseded this Standard. An entity shall apply SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 for
annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2018. However, for annual periods beginning before 1st
January 2018, an entity may elect to apply this Standard if, and only if, the entity’s date of initial application
is before 1st February 2015. If an entity elects to apply this Standard, it must apply all of the requirements
in this Standard at the same time (but see also paragraphs 7.1.1A and 7.2.16). If an entity applies this
Standard, it shall disclose that fact and at the same time apply the amendments in Appendix C.
7.1.2 Despite the requirements in paragraph 7.1.1, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018, an
entity may elect to apply the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities
designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.13 and B5.7.5–
B5.7.20 without applying the other requirements in this Standard. If an entity elects to apply only those
paragraphs, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the disclosures set out in paragraphs
10–11 of SLFRS 7 (as amended by SLFRS 9, issued in 2012).
 7.3.2 This Standard supersedes SLFRS 9 issued in 2012. However, for annual periods beginning before 1st
January 2018, an entity may elect to apply SLFRS 9 issued in 2009 or SLFRS 9 issued in 2010 if, and only
if, the entity’s date of initial application is before 1st February 2015.

<!-- page 152 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
152A
SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
C20 Paragraph 52 is amended to read as follows:
52 The exception in paragraph 48 applies only to financial assets, financial liabilities and other contracts
within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (or LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement, if SLFRS 9 has not yet been adopted). The references to financial assets and financial
liabilities in paragraphs 48–51 and 53–56 should be read as applying to all contracts within the scope of,
and accounted for in accordance with, SLFRS 9 (or LKAS 39, if SLFRS 9 has not yet been adopted),
regardless of whether they meet the definitions of financial assets or financial liabilities in LKAS 32
Financial Instruments: Presentation .
C21 In Appendix C, paragraph C5 is added:
 C5 SLFRS 9, as issued in 2014, amended paragraph 52. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies
SLFRS 9.
LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
C22 In paragraph 7, the definition of ‘other comprehensive income’ and paragraphs 68, 71, 82, 93, 95, 96, 106 and 123 are
amended to read as follows, paragraphs 139E, 139G and 139M are deleted and paragraph 139O is added:
7 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
...
Other comprehensive income comprises items of income and expense (including reclassification
adjustments) that are not recognised in profit or loss as required or permitted by other SLFRSs.
The components of other comprehensive income include:
(a) ...
 (d) gains and losses from investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
 (da) gains and losses on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9.
 (e) the effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge and the gains
and losses on hedging instruments that hedge investments in equity instruments measured at fair
value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 (see
Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9);
 (f) for particular liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, the amount of the change
in fair value that is attributable to changes in the liability’s credit risk (see paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS
9);
 (g) changes in the value of the time value of options when separating the intrinsic value and time value
of an option contract and designating as the hedging instrument only the changes in the intrinsic
value (see Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9);
 (h) changes in the value of the forward elements of forward contracts when separating the forward
element and spot element of a forward contract and designating as the hedging instrument only the

<!-- page 153 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
153A
changes in the spot element, and changes in the value of the foreign currency basis spread of a
financial instrument when excluding it from the designation of that financial instrument as the
hedging instrument (see Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9);
 ...
 68 The operating cycle of an entity is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their
realisation in cash or cash equivalents. When the entity’s normal operating cycle is not clearly identifiable,
it is assumed to be twelve months. Current assets include assets (such as inventories and trade receivables)
that are sold, consumed or realised as part of the normal operating cycle even when they are not expected
to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period. Current assets also include assets held
primarily for the purpose of trading (examples include some financial assets that meet the definition of held
for trading in SLFRS 9) and the current portion of non-current financial assets.
 71 Other current liabilities are not settled as part of the normal operating cycle, but are due for settlement
within twelve months after the reporting period or held primarily for the purpose of trading. Examples are
some financial liabilities that meet the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9, bank overdrafts, and the
current portion of non-current financial liabilities, dividends payable, income taxes and other non-trade
payables. Financial liabilities that provide financing on a long-term basis (ie are not part of the working
capital used in the entity’s normal operating cycle) and are not due for settlement within twelve months
after the reporting period are non-current liabilities, subject to paragraphs 74 and 75.
82 In addition to items required by other SLFRSs, the profit or loss section or the statement of profit or loss
shall include line items that present the following amounts for the period:
 (a) revenue, presenting separately interest revenue calculated using the effective interest method;
 (aa) gains and losses arising from the derecognition of financial assets measured at amortised cost;
 (b) finance costs;
 (ba) impairment losses (including reversals of impairment losses or impairment gains) determined
in accordance with Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9;
 (c) share of the profit or loss of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method;
 (ca) if a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category so that it is
measured at fair value through profit or loss, any gain or loss arising from a difference between
the previous amortised cost of the financial asset and its fair value at the reclassification date (as
defined in SLFRS 9);
 (cb) if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive income
measurement category so that it is measured at fair value through profit or loss, any cumulative
gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income that is reclassified to profit
or loss;
 (d) ...
93 Other SLFRSs specify whether and when amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income
are reclassified to profit or loss. Such reclassifications are referred to in this Standard as reclassification
adjustments. A reclassification adjustment is included with the related component of other comprehensive
income in the period that the adjustment is reclassified to profit or loss. These amounts may have been
recognised in other comprehensive income as unrealised gains in the current or previous periods. Those

<!-- page 154 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
154A
unrealised gains must be deducted from other comprehensive income in the period in which the realised
gains are reclassified to profit or loss to avoid including them in total comprehensive income twice.
 95 Reclassification adjustments arise, for example, on disposal of a foreign operation (see LKAS 21) and
when some hedged forecast cash flow affect profit or loss (see paragraph 6.5.11(d) of SLFRS 9 in relation
to cash flow hedges).
 96 Reclassification adjustments do not arise on changes in revaluation surplus recognised in accordance
with LKAS 16 or LKAS 38 or on remeasurements of defined benefit plans recognised in accordance with
LKAS 19. These components are recognised in other comprehensive income and are not reclassified to
profit or loss in subsequent periods. Changes in revaluation surplus may be transferred to retained
earnings in subsequent periods as the asset is used or when it is derecognised (see LKAS 16 and LKAS
38). In accordance with SLFRS 9, reclassification adjustments do not arise if a cash flow hedge or the
accounting for the time value of an option (or the forward element of a forward contract or the foreign
currency basis spread of a financial instrument) result in amounts that are removed from the cash flow
hedge reserve or a separate component of equity, respectively, and included directly in the initial cost or
other carrying amount of an asset or a liability. These amounts are directly transferred to assets or
liabilities.
106 An entity shall present a statement of changes in equity as required by paragraph 10. The statement of
changes in equity includes the following information:
 (a) ...
 (c) [deleted]
(d) for each component of equity, a reconciliation between the carrying amount at the beginning and
the end of the period, separately (as a minimum) disclosing changes resulting from:
 (i) profit or loss;
 (ii) other comprehensive income; and
 (iii) transactions with owners in their capacity as owners, showing separately contributions by
and distributions to owners and changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not
result in a loss of control.
123 In the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies, management makes various judgements, apart
from those involving estimations, that can significantly affect the amounts it recognises in the financial
statements. For example, management makes judgements in determining:
 (a) [deleted]
 (b) when substantially all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of financial assets and lease
assets are transferred to other entities;
 (c) whether, in substance, particular sales of goods are financing arrangements and therefore do not
give rise to revenue; and
 (d) whether the contractual terms of a financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

<!-- page 155 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
155A
139E [Deleted]
139G [Deleted]
139M [Deleted]
139O SLFRS 9, as issued in 2014, amended paragraphs 7, 68, 71, 82, 93, 95, 96, 106 and 123 and deleted paragraphs
139E, 139G and 139M. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 2 Inventories
C23 Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 40A, 40B and 40D are deleted and paragraph 40F is added:
2 This Standard applies to all inventories, except:
 (a) [deleted]
(b) financial instruments (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments); and
 (c) ...
40A [Deleted]
 40B [Deleted]
 40D [Deleted]
 40F SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2 and deleted paragraphs 40A, 40B and 40D.
An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
 LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors
C24 Paragraph 53 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 54A, 54B and 54D are deleted and paragraph 54E is added:
 53 Hindsight should not be used when applying a new accounting policy to, or correcting amounts for, a
prior period, either in making assumptions about what management’s intentions would have been in a
prior period or estimating the amounts recognised, measured or disclosed in a prior period. For example,
when an entity corrects a prior period error in calculating its liability for employees’ accumulated sick leave
in accordance with LKAS 19 Employee Benefits , it disregards information about an unusually severe
influenza season during the next period that became available after the financial statements for the prior
period were authorised for issue. The fact that significant estimates are frequently required when amending
comparative information presented for prior periods does not prevent reliable adjustment or correction of
the comparative information.
 54A [Deleted]
 54B [Deleted]
 54D [Deleted]

<!-- page 156 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
156A
 54E SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 53 and deleted paragraphs
54A, 54B and 54D. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period
C25 Paragraph 9 is amended to read as follows and paragraph 23B is added:
9 The following are examples of adjusting events after the reporting period that require an entity to adjust
the amounts recognised in its financial statements, or to recognise items that were not previously
recognised:
 (a) ...
 (b) the receipt of information after the reporting period indicating that an asset was impaired at the
end of the reporting period, or that the amount of a previously recognised impairment loss for that
asset needs to be adjusted. For example:
 (i) the bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the reporting period usually confirms that
the customer was credit-impaired at the end of the reporting period;
 23B SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 9. An entity shall apply
that amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 12 Income Taxes
C26 Paragraph 20 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 96, 97 and 98D are deleted and paragraph 98F is added:
 20 SLFRSs permit or require certain assets to be carried at fair value or to be revalued (see, for example, LKAS
16 Property, Plant and Equipment, LKAS 38 Intangible Assets, LKAS 40 Investment Property and SLFRS
9 Financial Instruments ). In some jurisdictions, the revaluation or other restatement of an asset to fair
value affects taxable profit (tax loss) for the current period. As a result, the tax base of the asset is adjusted
and no temporary difference arises. In other jurisdictions, the revaluation or restatement of an asset does
not affect taxable profit in the period of the revaluation or restatement and, consequently, the tax base of
the asset is not adjusted. Nevertheless, the future recovery of the carrying amount will result in a taxable
flow of economic benefits to the entity and the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes will differ
from the amount of those economic benefits. The difference between the carrying amount of a revalued
asset and its tax base is a temporary difference and gives rise to a deferred tax liability or asset. This is true
even if:
 (a) ...
 96 [Deleted]
 97 [Deleted]
 98D [Deleted]
 98F SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 20 and deleted paragraphs 96, 97 and 98D. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 157 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
157A
LKAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and
Disclosure of Government Assistance
C27 In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–47’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–48’. Paragraph 10A is amended to read as follows,
paragraphs 44 and 47 are deleted and paragraph 48 is added:
 10A The benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest is treated as a government grant. The
loan shall be recognised and measured in accordance with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The benefit of
the below-market rate of interest shall be measured as the difference between the initial carrying value of
the loan determined in accordance with SLFRS 9 and the proceeds received. The benefit is accounted for
in accordance with this Standard. The entity shall consider the conditions and obligations that have been,
or must be, met when identifying the costs for which the benefit of the loan is intended to compensate.
 44 [Deleted]
 47 [Deleted]
 48 SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 10A and deleted paragraphs 44 and 47. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS  21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
C28 [Deleted]
 C29 Paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 27 and 52 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 60C, 60E and 60I are deleted and paragraph
60J is added:
3 This Standard shall be applied: [footnote omitted]
(a) in accounting for transactions and balances in foreign currencies, except for those derivative
transactions and balances that are within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
 (b) ...
4 SLFRS 9 applies to many foreign currency derivatives and, accordingly, these are excluded from the scope
of this Standard. However, those foreign currency derivatives that are not within the scope of SLFRS 9
(eg. some foreign currency derivatives that are embedded in other contracts) are within the scope of this
Standard. In addition, this Standard applies when an entity translates amounts relating to derivatives from
its functional currency to its presentation currency.
 5 This Standard does not apply to hedge accounting for foreign currency items, including the hedging of a
net investment in a foreign operation. SLFRS 9 applies to hedge accounting.
 27 As noted in paragraphs 3(a) and 5, SLFRS 9 applies to hedge accounting for foreign currency items. The
application of hedge accounting requires an entity to account for some exchange differences differently
from the treatment of exchange differences required by this Standard. For example, SLFRS 9 requires that
exchange differences on monetary items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge are
recognised initially in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective.

<!-- page 158 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
158A
52 An entity shall disclose:
 (a) the amount of exchange differences recognised in profit or loss except for those arising on
financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9;
and
 (b) ...
60C [Deleted]
 60E [Deleted]
 60I [Deleted]
 60J SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 27 and 52 and deleted paragraphs 60C,
60E and 60I. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 23 Borrowing Costs
C30 Paragraph 6 is amended to read as follows and paragraph 29B is added:
6 Borrowing costs may include:
 (a) interest expense calculated using the effective interest method as described in SLFRS 9;
 (b) ...
 29B SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment when
it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
C31 Paragraphs 40–42 are amended to read as follows, and paragraphs 41A–41C and 45A are added:
 40 After application of the equity method, including recognising the associate’s or joint venture’s losses in
accordance with paragraph 38, the entity applies paragraphs 41A–41C to determine whether there is any
objective evidence that its net investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired.
 41 The entity applies the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9 to its other interests in the associate or joint
venture that are in the scope of SLFRS 9 and that do not constitute part of the net investment.
 41A The net investment in an associate or joint venture is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and
only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the
initial recognition of the net investment (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on
the estimated future cash flows from the net investment that can be reliably estimated. It may not be
possible to identify a single, discrete event that caused the impairment. Rather the combined effect of
several events may have caused the impairment. Losses expected as a result of future events, no matter
how likely, are not recognised. Objective evidence that the net investment is impaired includes observable
data that comes to the attention of the entity about the following loss events:
 (a) significant financial difficulty of the associate or joint venture;
 (b) a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments by the associate or joint
venture;

<!-- page 159 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
159A
 (c) the entity, for economic or legal reasons relating to its associate’s or joint venture’s financial
difficulty, granting to the associate or joint venture a concession that the entity would not
otherwise consider;
 (d) it becoming probable that the associate or joint venture will enter bankruptcy or other financial
reorganisation; or
 (e) the disappearance of an active market for the net investment because of financial difficulties of
the associate or joint venture.
 41B The disappearance of an active market because the associate’s or joint venture’s equity or financial
instruments are no longer publicly traded is not evidence of impairment. A downgrade of an associate’s or
joint venture’s credit rating or a decline in the fair value of the associate or joint venture, is not of itself,
evidence of impairment, although it may be evidence of impairment when considered with other available
information.
 41C In addition to the types of events in paragraph 41A, objective evidence of impairment for the net investment
in the equity instruments of the associate or joint venture includes information about significant changes
with an adverse effect that have taken place in the technological, market, economic or legal environment
in which the associate or joint venture operates, and indicates that the cost of the investment in the equity
instrument may not be recovered. A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an investment in
an equity instrument below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
 42 Because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of the net investment in an associate or a joint
venture is not separately recognised, it is not tested for impairment separately by applying the requirements
for impairment testing goodwill in LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets. Instead, the entire carrying amount of
the investment is tested for impairment in accordance with LKAS 36 as a single asset, by comparing its
recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount
whenever application of paragraphs 41A–41C indicates that the net investment may be impaired. An
impairment loss recognised in those circumstances is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, that
forms part of the carrying amount of the net investment in the associate or joint venture. Accordingly, any
reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with LKAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable
amount of the net investment subsequently increases. In determining the value in use of the net investment,
an entity estimates:
 (a) its share of the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the
associate or joint venture, including the cash flows from the operations of the associate or joint
venture and the proceeds from the ultimate disposal of the investment; or
 (b) the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from dividends to be received
from the investment and from its ultimate disposal.
Using appropriate assumptions, both methods give the same result.
45A SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 40–42 and added paragraphs 41A–41C. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation
C32 [Deleted]

<!-- page 160 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
160A
C33 Paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 12, 23, 31, 42 and 96C are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 97F, 97H and 97P are deleted
and paragraph 97R is added:
 3 The principles in this Standard complement the principles for recognising and measuring financial assets
and financial liabilities in SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, and for disclosing information about them in
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Scope
4 This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:
 (a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance
with SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements or
LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures . However, in some cases, SLFRS 10,
LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,
associate or joint venture using SLFRS 9; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements of
this Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to all derivatives linked to interests in
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
 (b) ...
 (d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. However, this Standard applies
to derivatives that are embedded in insurance contracts if SLFRS 9 requires the entity to account
for them separately. Moreover, an issuer shall apply this Standard to financial guarantee contracts
if the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply SLFRS
4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4 in
recognising and measuring them.
 (e) financial instruments that are within the scope of SLFRS 4 because they contain a discretionary
participation feature. The issuer of these instruments is exempt from applying to these features
paragraphs 15–32 and AG25–AG35 of this Standard regarding the distinction between financial
liabilities and equity instruments. However, these instruments are subject to all other requirements
of this Standard. Furthermore, this Standard applies to derivatives that are embedded in these
instruments (see SLFRS 9).
 (f) ...
 8 This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net
in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts
were financial instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held
for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected
purchase, sale or usage requirements. However, this Standard shall be applied to those contracts that an
entity designates as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 2.5 of
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
12 The following terms are defined in Appendix A of SLFRS 9 or paragraph 9 of LKAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are used in this Standard with the meaning specified in
LKAS 39 and SLFRS 9.

 amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
 derecognition

<!-- page 161 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
161A
 derivative
 effective interest method
 financial guarantee contract
 financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
 firm commitment
 forecast transaction
  hedge effectiveness
  hedged item
 hedging instrument
 held for trading
 regular way purchase or sale
 transaction costs.
 23 With the exception of the circumstances described in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D,
a contract that contains an obligation for an entity to purchase its own equity instruments for cash or
another financial asset gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the redemption amount (for
example, for the present value of the forward repurchase price, option exercise price or other redemption
amount). This is the case even if the contract itself is an equity instrument. One example is an entity’s
obligation under a forward contract to purchase its own equity instruments for cash. The financial liability
is recognised initially at the present value of the redemption amount, and is reclassified from equity.
Subsequently, the financial liability is measured in accordance with SLFRS 9. If the contract expires
without delivery, the carrying amount of the financial liability is reclassified to equity. An entity’s contractual
obligation to purchase its own equity instruments gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of
the redemption amount even if the obligation to purchase is conditional on the counterparty exercising a
right to redeem (eg a written put option that gives the counterparty the right to sell an entity’s own equity
instruments to the entity for a fixed price).
 31 SLFRS 9 deals with the measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. Equity instruments are
instruments that evidence a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Therefore, when the initial carrying amount of a compound financial instrument is allocated to its equity
and liability components, the equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from the
fair value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined for the liability component. The
value of any derivative features (such as a call option) embedded in the compound financial instrument
other than the equity component (such as an equity conversion option) is included in the liability component.
The sum of the carrying amounts assigned to the liability and equity components on initial recognition is
always equal to the fair value that would be ascribed to the instrument as a whole. No gain or loss arises
from initially recognising the components of the instrument separately.

<!-- page 162 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
162A
42 A financial asset and a financial liability shall be offset and the net amount presented in the statement of
financial position when, and only when, an entity:
(a) ...
(b)
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity shall
not offset the transferred asset and the associated liability (see SLFRS 9, paragraph 3.2.22).
96C The classification of instruments under this exception shall be restricted to the accounting for such an
instrument under LKAS 1, LKAS 32, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9. The instrument shall not be
considered an equity instrument under other guidance, for example SLFRS 2.
 97F [Deleted]
 97H [Deleted]
 97P [Deleted]
 97R SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 12, 23, 31, 42, 96C, AG2 and AG30 and
deleted paragraphs 97F, 97H and 97P. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
C34 In the Appendix, paragraphs AG2 and AG30 are amended to read as follows:
 AG2 The Standard does not deal with the recognition or measurement of financial instruments. Requirements
about the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are set out in SLFRS 9.
 AG30 Paragraph 28 applies only to issuers of non-derivative compound financial instruments. Paragraph 28
does not deal with compound financial instruments from the perspective of holders. SLFRS 9 deals with
the classification and measurement of financial assets that are compound financial instruments from the
holder’s perspective.
LKAS 33 Earnings per Share
C35 Paragraph 34 is amended to read as follows and paragraph 74E is added:
34 After the potential ordinary shares are converted into ordinary shares, the items identified in paragraph
33(a)–(c) no longer arise. Instead, the new ordinary shares are entitled to participate in profit or loss
attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity. Therefore, profit or loss attributable to ordinary
equity holders of the parent entity calculated in accordance with paragraph 12 is adjusted for the items
identified in paragraph 33(a)–(c) and any related taxes. The expenses associated with potential ordinary
shares include transaction costs and discounts accounted for in accordance with the effective interest
method (see SLFRS 9).
 74E SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 34. An entity shall apply
that amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets
C36 Paragraphs 2, 4 and 5 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 140F, 140G and 140K are deleted and paragraph
140M is added:

<!-- page 163 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
163A
2 This Standard shall be applied in accounting for the impairment of all assets, other than:
 (a) ...
 (e) financial assets that are within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
 (f) ...
4 This Standard applies to financial assets classified as:
 (a) subsidiaries, as defined in SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements ;
 (b) associates, as defined in LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint V entures; and
 (c) joint ventures, as defined in SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
 For impairment of other financial assets, refer to SLFRS 9.
 5 This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9, investment property
measured at fair value within the scope of LKAS 40, or biological assets related to agricultural activity
measured at fair value less costs to sell within the scope of LKAS 41. However, this Standard applies to
assets that are carried at revalued amount (ie fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent
accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses) in accordance with other
SLFRSs, such as the revaluation model in LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and LKAS 38 Intangible
Assets. The only difference between an asset’s fair value and its fair value less costs of disposal is the
direct incremental costs attributable to the disposal of the asset.
(a) …
 140F [Deleted]
 140G [Deleted]
 140K [Deleted]
 140M SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2, 4 and 5 and deleted paragraphs 140F, 140G
and 140K. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
C37 In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–99’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–101’. Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows,
paragraphs 97 and 98 are deleted and paragraph 101 is added:
 2 This Standard does not apply to financial instruments (including guarantees) that are within the scope of
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
 97 [Deleted]
 98 [Deleted]
 101 SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 2 and deleted paragraphs 97 and 98. An entity
shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 164 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
164A
LKAS  39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
C38 [Deleted]
C39 The heading above paragraph 1 and paragraph 1 are deleted.
C40 Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows and paragraphs 4–7 are deleted:
2 This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all financial instruments within the scope of SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments if, and to the extent that:
 (a) SLFRS 9 permits the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard to be applied; and
 (b) the financial instrument is part of a hedging relationship that qualifies for hedge accounting in
accordance with this Standard.
 4–7 [Deleted]
C41 Paragraphs 8 and 9 are amended to read as follows:
 8 The terms defined in SLFRS 13, SLFRS 9 and LKAS 32 are used in this Standard with the meanings
specified in Appendix A of SLFRS 13, Appendix A of SLFRS 9 and paragraph 11 of LKAS 32. SLFRS 13,
SLFRS 9 and LKAS 32 define the following terms:
 amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
 derecognition
  derivative
  effective interest method
 effective interest rate
 equity instrument
 fair value
  financial asset
 financial instrument
 financial liability
 and provide guidance on applying those definitions.
In paragraph 9, the ‘Definition of a derivative’, ‘Definitions of four categories of financial instruments’,
‘Definition of a financial guarantee contract’ and ‘Definitions relating to recognition and measurement’ are
deleted.
C42 Headings and paragraphs 10–70 and paragraph 79 are deleted.

<!-- page 165 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
165A
C43 Paragraphs 71, 88–90 and 96 are amended to read as follows:
71 If an entity applies SLFRS 9 and has not chosen as its accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge
accounting requirements of this Standard (see paragraph 7.2.19 of SLFRS 9), it shall apply the hedge
accounting requirements in Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9. However, for a fair value hedge of the interest rate
exposure of a portion of a portfolio of financial assets or financial liabilities, an entity may, in accordance
with paragraph 6.1.3 of SLFRS 9, apply the hedge accounting requirements in this Standard instead of
those in SLFRS 9. In that case the entity must also apply the specific requirements for fair value hedge
accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk (see paragraphs 81A, 89A and AG114–AG132).
 88 A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting under paragraphs 89–102 if, and only if, all of the
following conditions are met.
 (a) ...
 (d) The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, ie the fair value or cash flows of the
hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the hedging instrument
can be reliably measured.
 (e) ...
Fair Value Hedges
89 If a fair value hedge meets the conditions in paragraph 88 during the period, it shall be accounted for as
follows:
 (a) ...
 (b) the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk shall adjust the carrying
amount of the hedged item and be recognised in profit or loss. This applies if the hedged item is
otherwise measured at cost. Recognition of the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk in
profit or loss applies if the hedged item is a financial asset measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9.
90 If only particular risks attributable to a hedged item are hedged, recognised changes in the fair value of the
hedged item unrelated to the hedged risk are recognised as set out in paragraph 5.7.1 of SLFRS 9.
 96 More specifically, a cash flow hedge is accounted for as follows:
 (a) ...
 (c) if an entity’s documented risk management strategy for a particular hedging relationship excludes
from the assessment of hedge effectiveness a specific component of the gain or loss or related cash
flows on the hedging instrument (see paragraphs 74, 75 and 88(a)), that excluded component of
gain or loss is recognised in accordance with paragraph 5.7.1 of SLFRS 9.
 C44 Paragraphs 103C, 103D, 103F, 103K, 104 and 108C are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 103B, 103H–103J,
103L–103P, 103S, 105–107A and 108E–108F are deleted and paragraph 103U is added:
 103B [Deleted]
 103C LKAS  1 amended the terminology used throughout SLFRSs. In addition it amended paragraphs 95(a), 97,
98, 100, 102, 108 and AG99B. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or

<!-- page 166 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
166A
after 1st January 2009. If an entity applies LKAS 1 for an earlier period, the amendments shall be applied
for that earlier period.
 103D [Deleted]
 103F [Deleted]
 103H–
 103J [Deleted]
 103K [Deleted]
 103L–
 103P [Deleted]
 103S [Deleted]
 103U SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2, 8, 9, 71, 88–90, 96, AG95, AG114, AG118 and
the headings above AG133 and deleted paragraphs 1, 4–7, 10–70, 103B, 103D, 103F, 103H–103J, 103L–
103P, 103S, 105–107A, 108E–108F, AG1–AG93 and AG96. An entity shall apply those amendments when it
applies SLFRS 9.
 104 This Standard shall be applied retrospectively except as specified in paragraph 108. The opening balance
of retained earnings for the earliest prior period presented and all other comparative amounts shall be
adjusted as if this Standard had always been in use unless restating the information would be impracticable.
If restatement is impracticable, the entity shall disclose that fact and indicate the extent to which the
information was restated.
105–
107A [Deleted]
 108C Paragraphs 73 and AG8 were amended by Improvements to SLFRSs, issued in May 2008. Paragraph 80 was
amended by Improvements to SLFRSs, issued in April 2009. An entity shall apply those amendments for
annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2009. Earlier application of all the amendments is permitted.
If an entity applies the amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
 108E–
 108F [Deleted]
C45 In Appendix A, headings and paragraphs AG1–AG93 and paragraph AG96 are deleted.
C46 In Appendix A, paragraphs AG95, AG114 and AG118 are amended to read as follows and the first footnote to
paragraph AG118(b) is deleted:
AG95 A financial asset measured at amortised cost may be designated as a hedging instrument in a hedge of
foreign currency risk.
AG114 For a fair value hedge of interest rate risk associated with a portfolio of financial assets or financial
liabilities, an entity would meet the requirements of this Standard if it complies with the procedures set out
in (a)–(i) and paragraphs AG115–AG132 below.
 (a) As part of its risk management process the entity identifies a portfolio of items whose interest rate
risk it wishes to hedge. The portfolio may comprise only assets, only liabilities or both assets and

<!-- page 167 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
167A
liabilities. The entity may identify two or more portfolios, in which case it applies the guidance
below to each portfolio separately.
 (b) ...
AG118 As an example of the designation set out in paragraph AG114(c), if in a particular repricing time period an
entity estimates that it has fixed rate assets of Rs.100 and fixed rate liabilities of Rs.80 and decides to hedge
all of the net position of Rs.20, it designates as the hedged item assets in the amount of Rs.20 (a portion
of the assets). The designation is expressed as an ‘amount of a currency’ (eg an amount of dollars, euro,
pounds or rand) rather than as individual assets. It follows that all of the assets (or liabilities) from which
the hedged amount is drawn—ie all of the Rs.100 of assets in the above example—must be:
 (a) ...
 (b) items that could have qualified for fair value hedge accounting if they had been designated as
hedged individually. In particular, because SLFRS 9 specifies that the fair value of a financial
liability with a demand feature (such as demand deposits and some types of time deposits) is not
less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be
required to be paid, such an item cannot qualify for fair value hedge accounting for any time
period beyond the shortest period in which the holder can demand payment. In the above example,
the hedged position is an amount of assets. Hence, such liabilities are not a part of the designated
hedged item, but are used by the entity to determine the amount of the asset that is designated as
being hedged. If the position the entity wished to hedge was an amount of liabilities, the amount
representing the designated hedged item must be drawn from fixed rate liabilities other than
liabilities that the entity can be required to repay in an earlier time period, and the percentage
measure used for assessing hedge effectiveness in accordance with paragraph AG126(b) would
be calculated as a percentage of these other liabilities. For example, assume that an entity estimates
that in a particular repricing time period it has fixed rate liabilities of Rs.100, comprising Rs.40 of
demand deposits and Rs.60 of liabilities with no demand feature, and Rs.70 of fixed rate assets. If
the entity decides to hedge all of the net position of Rs.30, it designates as the hedged item
liabilities of Rs.30 or 50 per cent of the liabilities with no demand feature.
C47 In Appendix A, the heading above paragraph AG133 is amended to read as follows:
Transition (paragraphs 103–108C)
IFRIC 2 Members’ Shares in Co-operative Entities and Similar Instruments
C48 In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–18’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–19’. Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to
LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added. Paragraphs 15 and 18 are deleted
and paragraph 19 is added:
 15 [Deleted]
 18 [Deleted]
 19 SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs A8 and A10 and deleted paragraphs 15 and 18.
An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
C49 In the Appendix, paragraphs A8 and A10 are amended to read as follows:
 A8 Members’ shares in excess of the prohibition against redemption are financial liabilities. The co-operative
entity measures this financial liability at fair value at initial recognition. Because these shares are redeemable

<!-- page 168 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
168A
on demand, the co-operative entity measures the fair value of such financial liabilities in accordance with
paragraph 47 of SLFRS 13: ‘The fair value of a financial liability with a demand feature (eg a demand
deposit) is not less than the amount payable on demand …’. Accordingly, the co-operative entity classifies
as financial liabilities the maximum amount payable on demand under the redemption provisions.
 A10 Following the change in its governing charter the co-operative entity can now be required to redeem a
maximum of 25 per cent of its outstanding shares or a maximum of 50,000 shares at Rs.20 each. Accordingly,
on 1st January 20X3 the co-operative entity classifies as financial liabilities an amount of Rs.1,000,000
being the maximum amount payable on demand under the redemption provisions, as determined in
accordance with paragraph 47 of SLFRS 13. It therefore transfers on 1st January 20X3 from equity to
financial liabilities an amount of Rs.200,000, leaving Rs.2,000,000 classified as equity. In this example the
entity does not recognise a gain or loss on the transfer.
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and
Environmental Rehabilitation Funds
C50 Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments is added. Paragraph 5 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 14A and 14C are deleted and
paragraph 14D is added:
 5 A residual interest in a fund that extends beyond a right to reimbursement, such as a contractual right to
distributions once all the decommissioning has been completed or on winding up the fund, may be an
equity instrument within the scope of SLFRS 9 and is not within the scope of this Interpretation.
 14A [Deleted]
 14C [Deleted]
 14D SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 5 and deleted paragraphs 14A and 14C. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
C51 In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–13’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–14’. Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to
LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added. Paragraphs 1, 2, 7 and 8 are
amended to read as follows, paragraphs 5, 6, 11–13 are deleted, and paragraph 14 is added:
 1 An entity is required to assess goodwill for impairment at the end of each reporting period, and, if required,
to recognise an impairment loss at that date in accordance with LKAS 36. However, at the end of a
subsequent reporting period, conditions may have so changed that the impairment loss would have been
reduced or avoided had the impairment assessment been made only at that date. This Interpretation
provides guidance on whether such impairment losses should ever be reversed.
 2 The Interpretation addresses the interaction between the requirements of LKAS 34 and the recognition of
impairment losses on goodwill in LKAS 36, and the effect of that interaction on subsequent interim and
annual financial statements.
 5 [Deleted]
 6 [Deleted]
 7 The Interpretation addresses the following issue:

<!-- page 169 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
169A
Should an entity reverse impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill if a loss would not
have been recognised, or a smaller loss would have been recognised, had an impairment assessment been
made only at the end of a subsequent reporting period?
Consensus
8 An entity shall not reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of
goodwill.
 11–13 [Deleted]
 14 SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 1, 2, 7 and 8 and deleted paragraphs 5, 6, 11–
13. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
C52 Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments is added. Paragraphs 23–25 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 28A–28C are deleted and
paragraph 28E is added:
 23 LKAS  32 and SLFRSs 7 and 9 apply to the financial asset recognised under paragraphs 16 and 18.
 24 The amount due from or at the direction of the grantor is accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 as
measured at:
 (a) amortised cost;
 (b) fair value through other comprehensive income; or
 (c) fair value through profit or loss.
 25 If the amount due from the grantor is measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive
income, SLFRS 9 requires interest calculated using the effective interest method to be recognised in profit
or loss.
 28A–
28C [Deleted]
 28E SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 23–25 and deleted paragraphs 28A–28C. An
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
C53 A reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added under the heading ‘References’.
C54 Paragraphs 3, 5–7, 14 and 16 are amended to read as follows, paragraph 18A is deleted and paragraph 18B is added:
 3 SLFRS 9 requires the designation of an eligible hedged item and eligible hedging instruments in a hedge
accounting relationship. If there is a designated hedging relationship, in the case of a net investment
hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge of the net
investment is recognised in other comprehensive income and is included with the foreign exchange
differences arising on translation of the results and financial position of the foreign operation.

<!-- page 170 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
170A
 5 SLFRS 9 allows an entity to designate either a derivative or a non-derivative financial instrument (or a
combination of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments) as hedging instruments for foreign
currency risk. This Interpretation provides guidance on where, within a group, hedging instruments that
are hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation can be held to qualify for hedge accounting.
 6 LKAS  21 and SLFRS 9 require cumulative amounts recognised in other comprehensive income relating to
both the foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the results and financial position of the
foreign operation and the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective
hedge of the net investment to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment
when the parent disposes of the foreign operation. This Interpretation provides guidance on how an
entity should determine the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss for both the hedging
instrument and the hedged item.
 7 This Interpretation applies to an entity that hedges the foreign currency risk arising from its net investments
in foreign operations and wishes to qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SLFRS 9. For
convenience this Interpretation refers to such an entity as a parent entity and to the financial statements
in which the net assets of foreign operations are included as consolidated financial statements. All
references to a parent entity apply equally to an entity that has a net investment in a foreign operation that
is a joint venture, an associate or a branch.
 14 A derivative or a non-derivative instrument (or a combination of derivative and non-derivative instruments)
may be designated as a hedging instrument in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The
hedging instrument(s) may be held by any entity or entities within the group, as long as the designation,
documentation and effectiveness requirements of SLFRS 9 paragraph 6.4.1 that relate to a net investment
hedge are satisfied. In particular, the hedging strategy of the group should be clearly documented because
of the possibility of different designations at different levels of the group.
 16 When a foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of, the amount reclassified to profit or loss as a
reclassification adjustment from the foreign currency translation reserve in the consolidated financial
statements of the parent in respect of the hedging instrument is the amount that SLFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.14
requires to be identified. That amount is the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that was
determined to be an effective hedge.
 18A [Deleted]
 18B SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 5–7, 14, 16, AG1 and AG8 and deleted
paragraph 18A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
C55 In the Appendix, paragraphs AG1 and AG8 are amended to read as follows:
 AG1 This appendix illustrates the application of the Interpretation using the corporate structure illustrated
below. In all cases the hedging relationships described would be tested for effectiveness in accordance
with SLFRS 9, although this testing is not discussed in this appendix. Parent, being the ultimate parent
entity, presents its consolidated financial statements in its functional currency of euro (EUR). Each of the
subsidiaries is wholly owned. Parent’s £500 million net investment in Subsidiary B (functional currency
pounds sterling (GBP)) includes the £159 million equivalent of Subsidiary B’s US$300 million net investment
in Subsidiary C (functional currency US dollars (USD)). In other words, Subsidiary B’s net assets other
than its investment in Subsidiary C are £341 million.

<!-- page 171 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
171A
 AG8 When Subsidiary C is disposed of, the amounts reclassified to profit or loss in Parent’s consolidated
financial statements from its foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR) are:
 (a) in respect of the US$300 million external borrowing of Subsidiary A, the amount that SLFRS 9
requires to be identified, ie the total change in value in respect of foreign exchange risk that was
recognised in other comprehensive income as the effective portion of the hedge; and
 (b) ...
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
C56 In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–16’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–17’. Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to
LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added. Paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 9 and 10 are
amended to read as follows, paragraphs 14 and 16 are deleted and paragraph 17 is added:
 4 This Interpretation addresses the following issues:
 (a) Are an entity’s equity instruments issued to extinguish all or part of a financial liability ‘consideration
paid’ in accordance with paragraph 3.3.3 of SLFRS 9?
 (b) ...
Consensus
5 The issue of an entity’s equity instruments to a creditor to extinguish all or part of a financial liability is
consideration paid in accordance with paragraph 3.3.3 of SLFRS 9. An entity shall remove a financial
liability (or part of a financial liability) from its statement of financial position when, and only when, it is
extinguished in accordance with paragraph 3.3.1 of SLFRS 9.
 7 If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably measured then the equity instruments
shall be measured to reflect the fair value of the financial liability extinguished. In measuring the fair value
of a financial liability extinguished that includes a demand feature (eg a demand deposit), paragraph 47 of
SLFRS 13 is not applied.
 9 The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability (or part of a financial liability)
extinguished, and the consideration paid, shall be recognised in profit or loss, in accordance with paragraph
3.3.3 of SLFRS 9. The equity instruments issued shall be recognised initially and measured at the date the
financial liability (or part of that liability) is extinguished.
 10 When only part of the financial liability is extinguished, consideration shall be allocated in accordance
with paragraph 8. The consideration allocated to the remaining liability shall form part of the assessment
of whether the terms of that remaining liability have been substantially modified. If the remaining liability
has been substantially modified, the entity shall account for the modification as the extinguishment of the
original liability and the recognition of a new liability as required by paragraph 3.3.2 of SLFRS 9.
 14 [Deleted]
 16 [Deleted]
 17 SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 9 and 10 and deleted paragraphs 14 and
16. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 172 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
172A
SIC Interpretation 27 Evaluating the Substance of
Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease
C57 Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments is added. Paragraph 7 and the section below ‘Effective date’ is amended to read as follows:
7 Other obligations of an arrangement, including any guarantees provided and obligations incurred upon
early termination, shall be accounted for under LKAS 37, SLFRS 4 or SLFRS 9, depending on the terms.
Effective Date
This Interpretation becomes effective on 01st January 2012. Changes in accounting policies shall be accounted for
in accordance with LKAS 8.
SLFRS 9 amended paragraph 7. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.
02–77
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.