

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MAINTENANCE
 ACT, No. 37 OF 1999
[Certified on 22nd October, 1999]
printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of October 22,1999
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED A T THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 11.25 Postage : Rs. 5.25
(internet  version)


<!-- page 2 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 1
H-022545
[Certified on 22nd October, 1999]
L.D.O–35/98.
A N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  MAINTENANCE  OF  CHILDREN , ADULT
O FFSPRING , DISABLED  OFFSPRING  AND  SPOUSES  UNABLE  TO
M AINTAIN  THEMSELVES  ; TO  ENSURE  COMPLIANCE  OF  THE  LAW
R ELATING  TO  M AINTENANCE  WITH  THE  PROVISIONS  OF  THE
U NITED  NATIONS  CONVENTION  ON  THE  RIGHTS  OF  THE  CHILD ;
AND  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL
THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :––
1. This Act may be cited as the Maintenance Act, No. 37
1999
PART I
A PPLICA TION  FOR  MAINTENANCE
2. (1) Where any person having sufficient means,
neglects or unreasonably refuses to maintain such person’s
spouse who is unable to maintain himself or herself, the
Magistrate may, upon an application being made for
maintenance and upon proof of such neglect or unreasonable
refusal, order such person to make a monthly allowance for
the maintenance of such spouse at such monthly rate as the
Magistrate thinks fit, having regard to the income of such
person and the means and circumstances of such spouse :
Provided however, that no such order shall be made if the
applicant spouse is living in adultery or both the spouses are
living separately by mutual consent.
(2) Where a parent having sufficient means neglects or
refuses to maintain his or her child who is unable to maintain
himself or herself, the Magistrate may upon an application
being made for maintenance and upon proof of such neglect
or refusal, order such parent to make a monthly allowance for
the maintenance of such child at such monthly rate as the
Magistrate thinks fit, having regard to the income of the parents
and the means and circumstances of the child :
Short title.
Order for
Maintenance of a
spouse or child or
adult offspring or
disabled
offspring.

<!-- page 3 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19992
Provided however, that no such order shall be made in the
case of a non-marital child unless parentage is established by
cogent evidence to the satisfaction of the Magistrate.
(3) Where a parent having sufficient means neglects or
refuses to maintain his or her adult offspring who is unable to
maintain himself or herself, the Magistrate may upon an
application being made for maintenance and upon proof of
such neglect or refusal, order such parent to make a monthly
allowance for the Maintenance of such adult offspring at such
monthly rate as the Magistrate thinks fit, having regard to the
income of the parents and the means and circumstances of the
adult offspring :
Provided however, that no such order shall be made in the
case of an non-marital adult offspring unless parentage is
established by cogent evidence to the satisfaction of the
Magistrate.
(4) where a parent having sufficient means neglects or
refuses to maintain his or her disabled offspring who is unable
to maintain himself or herself, the Magistrate may upon an
application being made for maintenance and upon proof of
such neglect or refusal, order such parent to make a monthly
allowance for the maintenance of such disabled off spring at
such monthly rate as the Magistrate thinks fit, having regard
to the income of the parents and the means and circumstances
of the disabled offspring :
Provided however, that no such order shall be made in the
case of a disabled non-marital offspring unless parentage is
established by cogent evidence to the satisfaction of the
Magistrate.
(5) Where an order is made by a Magistrate for the
payment of an allowance pursuant to an application made
under subsection (1) or (2) or (3) or (4), such allowance shall
be payable from the date on which the application for
maintenance was made to such court, unless the Magistrate,
for good reasons to be recorded, orders payment from any
other date.

<!-- page 4 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 3
(6) Where an application is made for the maintenance of
a child, adult offspring or disabled offspring, as the
case may be under subsection (2), (3) or (4), as the
case may be, the court may, either on the application
of the parties or of its own motion, add the other parent
as a party to such application and make such order as
is appropriate against one or both such parents.
3. No Order for an allowance for the maintenance of any
child, adult offspring or disabled offspring made under
this Act shall, except for the purpose of recovering
money previously due under such Order, be of any
force or validity after the person in respect of whom
the order is made ceases to be a child, adult offspring
or disabled offspring, as the case may be, within the
meaning of this Act.
4. (1) An application for maintenance  may be made –
(a) where such application is for the maintenance of a child
or disabled offspring, by such child or disabled
offspring or by any person who has custody of such
child or disabled offspring ;
(b) where such application is for the maintenance of an
adult offspring, by such adult offspring or where such
adult offspring is incapable of making such application,
by any person on his or her behalf ; and
(c) where such application is for the maintenance of a
spouse, by such spouse or where such spouse is
incapable of making such application, by any person
on his or her behalf ;
(2) An application for maintenance may be made to
the Magistrates Court within whose jurisdiction the applicant
or the person in respect of whom the application is made or
the person against whom such application is made, resides.
Application for
maintenance.
Period of validity
of Order.

<!-- page 5 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19994
PART II
ENFORCEMENT  OF  ORDER  FOR  MAINTENANCE
5. (1) Subject to the provisions contained in section 10,
where any person against whom an order is made under section
2 or the proviso to section 11 (1) (hereinafter called the
“respondent” ) neglects to comply with such order, the
Magistrate may, for every breach of the order, sentence such
respondent for the whole or any part of each months allowance
in default, to simple or rigorous imprisonment for a term which
may extend to one month.
(2) The Magistrate may, if an application is made in that
behalf by any person entitled to receive any payment under
an order of maintenance, before passing a sentence of
imprisonment on the respondent, issue a warrant directing the
amount in default to be levied in the manner provided by law
for levying fines imposed by Magistrates in the Magistrate’
Courts.
6. (1) If on the application of a person entitled to receive
any payment under an order of maintenance, it appears to the
Magistrate that the respondent has defaulted in the payment
of maintenance due for a period exceeding two months, the
Magistrate may, after inquiry, by an order,(hereinafter referred
to as an “attachment of salary order”) require the person to
whom the order is directed, being a person appearing to the
Magistrate to be the respondent’s employer, to deduct, for
such period as may be specified in the order, such amount
from the respondent’s salary as may be specified in the order
and forthwith to remit that amount to the applicant in the
manner directed by Court.
(2) (a) Before an order is made under subsection (1) of
this section, the Magistrate shall notice the person on whom
he proposes to serve such order, to show cause, if any, why an
order should not be made under that subsection, and to require
him to furnish to the court, within such period as may be
specified in such order, the salary particulars of the respondent.
Attachment of
salary of
respondent.
Enforcement of
Orders.

<!-- page 6 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 5
Any order made under subsection (1) of this section may be
the subject of an appeal to a High Court established by Artical
154P of the Constitution by any person aggrieved by such
order, but notwithstanding such appeal, the Magistrate may
decide to continue proceedings under this Act. The provisions
of section 14 of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to,
and in relation to, every such appeal.
(b) The Magistrate may also by an order served on the
respondent, require him to furnish to the Court within such
period as may be specified in such order,a statement
specifying  –
(i) the name and address of his employer or
employers as the case may be, if he has more than
one employer ;
(ii)such particulars as to his salary, inclusive of
deductions, as may be within his knowledge ; and
(iii) any other particulars as are required or necessary
to enable his employer or employers to identify
him.
(3) A statement furnished in compliance with an order
made under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of this section
shall, in any proceedings any court, be received as evidence
and be deemed to be prima facie proof of the particulars
referred to in the said paragraph, unless the contrary is shown.
(4) The Magistrate shall not make an attachment of salary
order, if it appears to him, that the failure of the respondent to
make any payment in accordance with the order of
maintenance in question, was not due to his wilful refusal or
culpable neglect.
(5) In determining the amount to be deducted from the
respondent’s salary in terms of subsection (1) of this section,
the Magistrate shall have regard to the resources and needs of
the respondent, and the needs of the person, the payment of
whose maintenance is in default.

<!-- page 7 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19996
(6) An attachment of salary order shall not come into force
until the expiration of fourteen days from the date on which a
copy of the order is served on the person to whom the order is
directed.
(7) An attachment of salary order may on the application
of the respondent or the person entitled to receive payment
under the order of maintenance, be discharged or varied.
(8) A person to whom an attachment of salary order is
directed shall subject to the provisions of this Act, comply
with the order or, if the order is subsequently varied under
subsection (7), with the order as varied.
(9) Where, on any occasion on which any deductions have
to be made from the salary of a respondent in pursuance of an
attachment of salary order, there are in force, two or more
orders for attachment of salary, relating to such salary, made
under this Act or other written law, then , for the purposes of
complying with this section, the employer shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law, first give effect to an order of attachment made under
this Act and deal with any other order in respect of the residue
of the respondent’s salary according to the respective dates
on which they came into force.
(10) An employer who in pursuance of an attachment of
salary order makes any payment shall forthwith give to the
respondent a statement in writing specifying the amount
deducted from his salary in pursuance of such order.
(11) Any employer who fails or neglects to comply with an
attachment of salary order shall be liable on conviction by a
Magistrate’s Court to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees
and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction in respect
of the same attachment of salary order, to a fine not exceeding
one thousand rupees :
Provided however, it shall be a defence for an employer
charged with failing or neglecting to comply with an
attachment of salary order, to prove that he took all reasonable
steps to comply with such order.

<!-- page 8 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 7
(12) The provisions of this section shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other written law, have effect
in relation to an attachment of salary that may be made by a
Magistrate under this Act.
(13) For the purposes of this section –
(a) where the respondent is a public officer or an officer
of a provincial public service, the head of the
department to which he is for the time being attached
shall be deemed to be his employer ;
(b) where the respondent is a member of the Local
Government Service and employed in any local
authority, the Commissioner if it be a Municipal
Council or the Chairman if it be an Urban Council or
a Pradeshiya Sabha, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to be his employer ;
(c) where the respondent is a person employed in any
Corporation, Statutory Board or Company, the
principal officer of such Corporation, Statutory Board
or Company, as the case may be, shall be deemed to
be his employer ;
(d) where the respondent is a person employed in any
partnership, the Managing partner or the Manager of
such partnership shall be deemed to be his employer ;
and
(e) where the respondent is a member of the armed forces,
the commander of the unit to which he is attached shall
be deemed to be his employer.
7. (1) Where an order for maintenance is made under
the provisions of this Act, the Magistrate may direct the
respondent, that the amount of the payment due under such
order, shall be deposited each month on or before such
date as may be specified in such order in favour of the person
entitled to such payment, at such post office or a bank as may
be specified in such order, and the amount so deposited may
Payment of
maintenance
through Post
Office or Bank.

<!-- page 9 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 19998
be drawn by such person from such post office or bank. It
shall be the duty of such officer for the time being in charge
of such post office or bank to pay that amount to the person
entitled thereto upon application made in that behalf.
(2) Where a direction has been made under subsection
(1) of this section and there has been default in the deposit of
payments as specified in such direction, the person entitled to
receive payment may report such default to the Court, and the
Magistrate may in such event, notice the respondent to show
cause why he should not be dealt with for such default, and if
satisfied after due inquiry that there has been any default,
impose such punishment as is provided for by this Act for
such default.
8. On the application of any person receiving or ordered
to pay a monthly allowance under the provisions of this Act
and on proof of a change in the circumstances of any person
for whose benifit or against whome an order for maintenance
has been made under this Act, the Magistrate may either cancel
such order or make such alteration in the allowance ordered
as he deems fit :
Provided that such cancellation or alteration shall take effect
from the date on which the application for cancellation or
alteration was made to such Court, unless the Magistrate for
good reasons to be recorded, orders otherwise.
9.   A copy of the order of maintenance certified under the
hand of the Magistrate shall be given without payment to the
person in whose favour it is made, or to his or her guardian or
a person having actual custody of such person, if any, or to
the person to whom the allowance is to be paid, and the Court
making such order or any Magistrate having jurisdiction over
the place where any such person or the respondent may be,
shall, on the production of such order and on being satisfied
as to the identity of the parties and the non-payment of the
allowance due, proceed under section 5 or section 6.
Application for
cancellation of
order or alteration
in amount of
allowance.
Copy of order to
be given to party,
and where order
enforceable.

<!-- page 10 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 9
10. Every application for an order of maintenance or to
enforce such an order, shall be in writing and shall be signed
by the applicant or the person making the application on his
behalf and shall be free of any stamp duty. Every summons to
a respondent or a witness shall also be free of stamp duty.
11. (1) Every application for an order of maintenance or
to enforce an order of maintenance shall be supported by an
affidavit stating the facts in support of the application, and
the Magistrate shall, if satisfied that the facts set out in the
affidavit are sufficient, issue a summons together with a copy
of such affidavit, on the person against whom the appication
is made to appear and to show cause why the application should
not be granted :
Provided however the Magistrate may in his discretion at
any time make an interim order for the payment of monthly
allowance which shall remain operative until an order on the
application is made, unless such interim order is earlier varied
or revoked, and such interim order shall have effect from the
date of the application or from such later date as the Magistrate
may fix.
(2) The Magistrate shall, after such inquiry as he may
consider necessary, make order allowing or refusing the
application, and if necessary, may make an order under section
5 or section 6 :
Provided however, and application under this Act shall not
be rejected on account of any error, omission or irregularity
in the application, or affidavit required to be field in terms of
subsection (1) of this section, or in the summons issued
therunder, or in other proceedings before, or during, an inquiry
under this Act, unless such error, omission or irregularity has
caused material prejudice to a party.
12. (1) The Magistrate may proceed in the manner
provided in Chapter V and VI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No, 15 of 1979 to compel the attendance of
the person against whom the application is made and of any
person required by the applicant or the person against whom
the application is made or by the Magistrate to give evedence,
and the production of any document necessary, for the purposes
of the inquiry.
Commencement
of Inquiry.
Application to be
in writing and
process to be free
of stamp duty.
Attendance of
respondent and
witnesses.

<!-- page 11 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199910
(2) When the person against whom the application is made
is absent, the provisions of section 192 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply.
13. Subject to subsection (2) of section 12 all evidence
taken by a Magistrate under this Act shall be taken in the
presence of the person against whom the application is made
or, when his personal attendance is not required by the
Magistrate, in the presence of his attorney-at-law, if any, and
shall be recorded in the manner prescribed for trials in the
Magistrates Court :
Provided however, it shall not be necessary to frame a
charge or to record the statement of the person aginst whom
the application is made in the manner prescribed in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979 :
Provided further, that in any proceedings under this Act it
shall be competent for the person against whom the application
is made to give evidence upon oath or affirmation as an
ordinary witness, and each spouse shall be a competent witness
against the other spouse.
14. (1) Any person who shall be dissatisfied with any
order made by a Magistrate under section 2 or section 11 may
prefer an appeal to the relevant High Court established by
Article 154P of the Constitution in like manner as if the order
was a final order pronounced by Magistrate’s Court in a
criminal case or matter, and sections 320 to 330 (both
inclusive) and sections 357 and 358 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No, 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply
to such appeal :
Provided however, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in section 323 of the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of
1979 such order under section 2 shall not be stayed by reason
of such appeal, unless the High Court directs otherwise for
reasons to be recorded :
Provided futher that the Magistrate in forwarding the record
to the High Court shall retain a copy of his order for purposes
of enforcement.
Proceedings in
absence of
respondent.
Form of
proceedings.
Right of Appeal.

<!-- page 12 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 11
(2) Any person dissatisfied with an order made by a High
Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction under this
section, may prefer an appeal therefrom to the Supreme Court,
on a question of law, with the leave of the High Court, and
where such leave is refused, with the special leave of the
Supreme Court, first had an obtained.
15. The forms specified in the Schedule to this Act, with
such variations as the circumstances of any case may require,
shall be used for the respective purposes therein mentioned.
16. When disposing of any application or appeal under
this Act, a court may order either party to pay all or any part
of the costs of such application or the costs of such application
and appeal, as the case may be, and the amount due under any
such order shall be recoverable as if it were a fine and in
default of payment, simple imprisonment may be imposed for
a period not exceeding one month.
17. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as depriving a
person including a child, adult offspring,disabled offspring
spouse or parent of the right, if any to maintain a civil action
for maintenance.
18. The Married Women’ Property Ordinance is hereby
amended by the repeal of section 26 and section 27 of that
Ordinance.
19. The Maintenance Ordinance is hereby repealed.
20. (1) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Maintenance
Ordinance–
(a) all proceedings instituted under that Ordinance; and
(b) all appeals from orders made under that ordinance,
and pending on the day preceeding the date of commecement
of this Act, shall be heard and disposed of , in all respects, as
though such Ordinance had not been repealed.
Forms.
Costs.
Other actions not
barred.
Amendment of
Chapter 56.
Repeal of Chapter
91.
Transitional
provision.

<!-- page 13 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199912
(2) Every order made under the Maintenance Ordinance
and pending on the day preceeding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be deemed to be an order made under this
Act and may be enforced accordingly.
21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
22. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–
“adopted” when used in relation to a child or offspring
means a child or offspring adopted under the
provisions of the Adoption of Children Ordinance
or the Kandyan Law Declaration and Amendment
Ordinance ;
“adult offspring” means any marital or non-marital or
adopted offspring, who is eighteen years of age or is
over eighteen years of age and under twentyfive years
of age ;
“child” means any marital or non-marital or adopted
offspring, who has not reached eighteen years of
age ;
“disabled offspring” means any marital or non-marital or
asopted offspring of whatever age, who is or becomes
physically or mentally disabled so as to render such
offspring incapable of earning a livelihood or of
adequately supporting himself or herself ;
“marital” when used in relation to a child or offspring
means a child or offspring born to parents who are
not married ;
“non-marital” when used in ralation to a child or offspring
means a child or offspring born to parents who are
not married ;
“ parent” includes an adoptive parent ;
“salary” includes all allowances and wages.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 14 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 13
SCHEDULE
FORM No. 1
M AINTENANCE  ACT , NO . 37 OF  1999
SUMMONS TO A RESPONDENT
To...................................... of................................................
Whereas your attendance is necessary to answer to a charge
of not maintaining your spouse (name)  (or child/adult
offspring/disabled offspring) (name, or say child by
............................................... ,giving mother’s name) :
or
Whereas your attendance is necessary to answer to a charge
of having committed a breach of an order of maintenance  made
against you under the Maintenance Act, No...........................
of .................... ,by non-payment of the allowance due to your
child/ adult             offspring/disabled                offspring/
spouse ................................ (give name or describe as above)
for ................................................ (state period) :
You are hereby required to appear in person (or by an
Attorney-at-Law,as the case may be) before the Magistrate’s
Court of ...................... , on the ....................................... day
of........................., 20 ........................... Herein fail not.
Dated this .................... day of ................... , 20.................
...................................................
Signature.
FORM No. 2
M AINTENANCE  ACT , NO . 37 OF  1999
WARRANT  OF  IMPRISONMENT  ON  FAILURE  TO  PAY  MAINTENANCE
To the Fiscal of the ........................ Province.
Whereas (name, description, and address) has been proved
to be possessed of sufficient means to maintain his/her spouse
(name) (or his or her child/adult offspring/disabled offspring)
(name, or describe as in summons), who is unable to maintain
[Section 15]
[Section 15]

<!-- page 15 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 199914
herself (or himself), and to have neglected (or refused) to do
so, and an order has been duly made requiring the said
(name)to allow to his/her spouse (or child/adult offspring/
disabled offspring) for maintenance the monthly sum of
............. rupees ; and whereas it has been further proved that
the said (name), in wilful disregard of the said order, has failed
to pay
............. rupees, being the amount of the allowance for the
month (or months) of ......... and thereupon an order was made
adjudging him to undergo simple (or rigorous) imprisonment
for the period of ...................... :
This is to authorize and require you, the said Fiscal, to
receive the said (name) into your custody in the prison at
.............. , together with this warrant, and there carry the said
order into execution according to law ; returning this warrant
with an endorsement certifying the manner of its execution.
Given under my hand this ...........................................day
of ....................................... , 20 ................. .
...................................................
Signature.
FORM No. 3
M AINTENANCE  ACT , NO . 37 OF  1999
W ARRANT  TO  ENFORCE  THE  PAYMENT  OF  MAINTENANCE  BY
DISTRESS  AND  SALE
To the Fiscal of the .............................................................. .
Whereas an order has been duly made requiring (name)to
allow to his/her spouse (or child/adult offspring/disabled
offspring) for maintenance the monthly sum of .....................
rupees ; and whereas the said (name), in wilful disregard of
the said order, has failed to pay ................................. rupees,
being the amount of the allowance for the month (or months)
of ................. .
[Section 15]

<!-- page 16 -->

Maintenance Act, No. 37 of 1999 15
This is to authorize and require you to make distress by
seizure of any movable property belonging to the said (name)
which may be found within the district of ................... , and if
within (state the number of days or hours allowed) next after
such distress the said sum shall not be paid (or forthwith), to
sell the movable property distrained, or so much thereof as
shall be sufficient to satisfy the said sum returning this warrant
with an endorsement certifying what you have done under it,
immediately upon its execution.
Given under my hand this ........................................... day
of ......................... , 20 ................. .
...................................................
Signature.

<!-- page 17 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign).
Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15 th December each year in respect of the year following.