

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1014 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1008
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"186 – 2020 cQ,s ui 24 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'07'24
No. 2,186  –  fRiday ,  July  24, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th august, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st July, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1005 - B 82042- 5,403 (07/2020)
N. B.–   Part iii of the Gazette No. 2,185 of 17.07.2020 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1006
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1007
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1008
Posts – vacant
v ACANCIES fOR SRI LANkA REGuLAR/vOLuNTEER NAvAL fORCE DIRECT ENTRy 
OffICERS yEAR 2020
1. V ACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval Force for Male/ Female Officers.
2. Applications are invited from Male/Female candidates possessing the qualifications given below:-
(a) Executive branch (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Sub lieutenant (Male)
 Educational Qualification  -  A General Degree in Science from recognized University in                           
Sri lanka
 age  -   Below 30 years
(b) Executive branch (volunteer Naval force)
 Rank -  acting Sub lieutenant (Male/ female)
 Educational Qualification  -  A General Degree from recognized University in Sri Lanka
 age  -   Below 30 years
(c) Shipwright Engineering branch (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  lieutenant (Male)
 Educational Qualification  -  Bsc in (Mechanical/Production/Material Science) Engineering/
Naval architecture or equivalent degree from any (local/foreign) 
university which is recognized by university Grants commission 
of Sri lanka.
   - Should have obtained 02 "c" & 01 "S" at one sitting in G. c. E. a/l 
(local) in Mathematics stream (combined Mathamatics, chemistry 
and Physics)
 age  -   Below 32 years
(d)  Dental branch (Regular Naval force)
 (1) Officer Cadet (Male/Female) 
  Educational Qualification - Following 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th semester - BDS course.
  age - Between 18 to 22 years.
 (2) Midshipman (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - Completion of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th semester BDS Examination,
  age - Between 18 to 24 years.
 (3) Acting Sub Lieutenant (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - Completion of the 5th and 6th semester BDS Examination.
  age - Between 18 to 26 years.
 (4) Sub Lieutenant (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - Completion of the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th semester BDS Examination.
  age - Below 30 years.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1009
 (5) Surgeon Lieutenant (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - BDS equivalent qualification with permanent registration at the               
Sri lanka Medical council (SlMc)
  age - Below 35 years.
(e) band branch (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Sub lieutenant (Male)
 Educational Qualification  -  1. Special Degree in Music - University of the visual and performing 
arts Sri lanka ;
     or
    2. degree in fine arts (Music) university which is recognized by 
the university Grant commission ; 
     or
    3. aTCL/ALCM/ARAM/ARCM or Higher Qualification in Western 
Music.
     (Visharadh diploma in Music Bhathkande Music institute will 
be added Qualification)
 age  -   Below 30 years
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for the enlistment to the Sri Lanka 
Regular / V olunteer Naval Force :
(a) Nationality -  Must be a citizen of Sri lanka.
(b) age  - Should be  as indicated for relevant branches as at  closing date for 
application.
(c) Height (Regular) - Male   -  Should not be below 66 inches
   female  -  Should not be below 64 inches
 Height (V olunteer) - Male   -  Should not be below 65 inches 
   female  -  Should not be below 63 inches
(d) Weight (Regular/V olunteer) - Male  -  Should not be below 52kg.
   female  -  Should not be below 41kg.
(e) chest (Regular/V olunteer) - Male  -  Should not be below 32 inches  
(f) colour Vision  - Std ii (actual vision)
 (Regular/V olunteer)
(g) Visual acuity - left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6
 (Regular/V olunteer) - 6/6 to 6/12 without spectacles for Dental Officers and Students (corrected 
by spectacles to 6/6)
(h) Educational Qualification - Having passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination with two credits including 
Mathematics and English in not more than two sittings. 
   Having obtained minimum qualification for University entry based on 
the G. C. E. (A/L) Examinations results. (A certified copy of the results 
sheet issued by the commission general of examinations should be sent 
along with the application form) 
(i) civil Status - Married/unmarried
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the aforesaid requirements of Para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On 
arrival for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, age, vision and 
weight are below the standards specified in the Gazette Notification will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1010
special skill or value to the service may be considered at the discretion of the commander of the Sri lanka Navy even though 
the candidate may not have the requisite height and age. 
6. Conditions of service :-
 (a) Candidates will be enlisted into the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval Force as Male/ Female officers and 
will undergo a Basic training course. the duration of the course will depend on the branch for which the 
enlistment is made. 
 (b) Regular/V olunteer Naval Force Male/Female Officers will be required to undergo a training at any place in 
Sri lanka or abroad as decided by the commander of the Sri lanka Navy in consultation with the Ministry 
of defence.
 (c) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any country of the world at any time.
 (d) During the period of training and thereafter, Regular/V olunteer Naval Force Male/ Female Officers will be 
subject to Naval law.
 (e) In the event a Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/ female Officer voluntarily terminates his/ her candidature 
during the training, he/she will be required to refund to the Government of Sri lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Government of Sri Lanka on account of such regular/volunteer male/ female Officer.
 (f) If at any time during his/her course a Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/ female Officer is reported by the 
authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/ her control to qualify 
for a commission, he/ she will be required to refund to the Sri lanka Navy all expenses in carry on his/ her 
training and will be required to enter into a bond to this effect with the commander of the Sri lanka Navy 
acting on behalf of the Government of Sri lanka.
 (g) During the period of training, Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/ female Officers will be provided with 
food and accommodation by the wardrooms of the Sri lanka Navy.
 (h) Married male/ female Officers may be provided with married quarters if available. Recovery of rental will 
be as applicable to public servants.
7.  Official Language Requirements.– the selected candidates will be required to comply with regulations and 
articles already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Official Language Act,                          
No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances.– the payments will be made with effect from 01.01.2020 as per the Management Services 
circular No. 03/2016.
Description Cadet 
Officer Midshipman Acting Sub 
Lieutenant
Sub 
Lieutenant Lieutenant
Basic Salary 32,380.00 32,750.00 41,905.00 47,615.00 55,625.00
cost of living 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00
uniform -  allowance 525.00 525.00 525.00 525.00 525.00
Hard line allowance  - - 600.00 600.00 600.00
additional allowance 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00
Special adjustment allowance 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00
total 44,705.00 45,075.00 54,830.00 61,875.00 69,885.00
 (a) Ration Money Allowance will be given to male/female officers who are victualling out.
 (b) Qualification pay, where applicable, will be given up to a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month. 
 (c) Three sets of railway warrants per year will be issued (for male/female officer, spouse, children and 
dependents if applicable).

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1011
 (d) an additional set of railway warrants or imbursement of bus fare for Officers living in wardrooms to visit 
their homes once a month.
 (e) uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free of charge.
 (f) Medical facilities will be provided free of charge (for male/female officer, spouse, children and dependents 
if applicable)
 (g) Married male/female officers who do not occupy Government married quarters, will be entitled to a rent 
allowance of Rs. 3,200.00 to Rs. 7,700.00.
 (h) Dental male/female officers will be entitled to extra duty allowance and 1/20 allowance after the internship 
as approved by the Ministry of Health. 
 (i) Engineering officers will be entitled to a special allowance  approved by the Government.
9.  Instructions to Applicants :–
 (a) applications should be in the form of the specimen given below and  should be completed clearly in detail 
in the applicant’s own handwriting. Duly completed applications should be forwarded to Senior Staff Officer 
(Recruitments), Navy Headquarters, P.o. Box 593, colombo-01 under registered cover on or before 1200 
hrs on 15th august 2020. the top left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear “direct 
Entry - Regular/V olunteer Male/Female Officers”. Applications received after the closing date and time 
and applications that do not comply with the requirements stipulated in the Gazette notification will not be 
entertained. further information please visit the website www.navy.lk or call 011-7195118/011-7195154.
 (b) candidates who are in Public Service/corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through the Heads of Departments/Corporations/ Boards/Civil Establishments with a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents in the interview or any other 
occasion and certified copies of the following documents when forwarding the applications :-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
 (2) Certificates of educational /higher educational/ professional educationl /Degree qualifications required 
for the branch applied for;
 (3) School leaving certificate/Character Certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladhari certificate (obtained within six months);
 (5) Certificates of professional/ technical  experience (if any) gained from a recognized institution;
 (6) Two recent character certificates. (From responsible person who knows the applicant for more than two 
years or the present employer) 
 (7) Certificates of sports activities, cadetting etc.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce the documents when requested will not be considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
 (f) The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for the loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
10. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
or dismissal when the false statement is revealed before the selection or after the selection, respectively. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1012
11. Selection Interviews :–
 (a) Candidates who fulfill the above requirements should undergo a preliminary medical test conducted by the 
Sri lanka Navy. candidates so passed will be required to undergo a Physical Endurance test as mentioned 
below. candidates those who pass the Physical Endurance test shall have to appear in an interview as 
prescribed by the Commander of Sri Lanka Navy. The final selection will be made from the so selected 
candidates upon subjecting them to another interview before a Selection Board appointed by the Ministry 
of defence.
 (b) Requirements to pass the Physical Endurance test
Age Group 800M RUN CURL UP (2MN) PUSH UP (2MN)
18 – 24 Male 3.30 – 5.30 Minutes 19 or More 21 or More
18 – 24 female 4 – 6 Minutes 13 or More 05 or More
25 – 29 Male 4 – 6 Minutes 17 or More 20 or More
25 – 29 female 4.30 – 6.30 Minutes 12 or More 03 or More
30 – 34 Male 4.30 – 6.30 Minutes 15 or More 14 or More
30 – 34 female 5 – 7 Minutes 09 or More 02 or More
35 – 39 Male 5 – 7 Minutes 13 or More 12 or More
35 – 39 female 5.30 – 7.30 Minutes 06 or More 02 or More
 (c) only the candidates who successfully complete the Physical Endurance test will be called for the 
Preliminary interview on the same day and those who pass the preliminary interview will be called for the 
Second interview. the candidates selected from the second interview will be called for the final interview 
and the candidates who obtain the highest marks from the respective branches will be selected according 
to the vacancies available. 
 (d) candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing and by post, of the date, time and place of 
such interviews. travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
 (e) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview, he/ she  should produce his/her National 
identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 (f) Candidates likely to be qualified after the final interviews will be required to present themselves before a 
Sri lanka Navy Medical Board.
 (g) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his/ her a testimonial. any form 
of canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate.
 (h) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
 (i) candidates selected for dental Branch who are undergoing the university studies will be released to 
respective universities after enlistments necessary with full pay leave to complete their studies. in such 
event relevant candidates will be required to enter in to a bond to this effect with the commander of the 
Sri lanka Navy acting as the representative of the Government of Sri lanka. 
Note: This Gazette notification is published in Sinhala and English. In the event of any inconsistency 
between Sinhala and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 dNS UlUgetenne, RSP & Bar, VSV , uSP, ndc, psc
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters,
P.o. Box 593,
colombo 01. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1013
aPPlicatioN foR REGulaR /VoluNtEER MalE/
fEMalE officERS iN tHE SRi laNka NaVy
 01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether a citizen of Sri lanka by descent or by 
registration and if registration, quote number and date 
of the certificate)
 02. Branch and Post applied for :–––––––––––.
 03. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––.
 04. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
 05. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 06. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
 07, E-mail Address  :–––––––––––.
 08. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
 09. Age (As at 15th August, 2020) :––––––––––.
  Years :–––––––. Months :––––––––. Days :––––––––.
 10. Height :–––––––––––. (inches)
  Chest :–––––––––––. (inches)
  Weight :–––––––––––––. (Kg.) 
 11. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 12. District :–––––––––––.
 13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 14. Grama Niladhari Division  :–––––––––––.
 15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 16. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
 17. Gender :––––––––––.
 18. Schools Attended :––––––––––.
 19. Particulars of School or University attended  : 
 Name of  Type of  Year of  Subjects
 the School/ Examination Examination passed 
 University   (including
    grading)
 G. c. E. (o/l)
 G. c. E. (a/l)
 other
 20. Particulars of employment since leaving School/
University (if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer Employment To       From
 21. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    Address 
 father 
 Mother 
 22. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 23. details of available achievements in sports. (Give 
details of competitions and sports teams participated in 
with dates and achievements reached :––––––––––––.
 24. other achievements at School /university or in outside 
Organizations. (Give details with dates/ years etc.) :                 
–––––––––––.
 25. any previous service in the armed forces or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scouts Organization :–––––.
 26. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri lanka Navy 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give 
details and the outcome of such applications :–––––––.
 27. Have you had a conviction or received a suspended 
sentence by a civil or military court, if so give 
details :–––––––––––.
 28. if employed in a Government department or in the 
Public Sector /Board /corporation (including the central 
Bank, State Banks, universities, civil organizations 
controlled by the Government, companies etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 29. Particulars of testimonials : 
Name Designation Postal Address
 30. Declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that aforesaid details given by 
me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will 
be adopted and the regulations which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in the  
Sri lanka Navy published in the Gazette of the Government 
of Sri lanka. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
07–856

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1014
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
hOmE AffAIRS, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS 
AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ 
Service - 2019 (2020)
1.0 accoRdiNG to the provisions of the Sri lanka 
Government librarians' Service Minute published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri lanka of No. 2024/35 dated 21.06.2017, the limited 
competitive examination for recruitment to Grade iii of Sri 
lanka Government librarians' Service shall be held in 
colombo in the month of November 2020 by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
2.0 The applicants who have satisfied qualifications 
based on the merit on the results of this examination 
: will 
be selected for appointment to the posts in grade iii of Sri 
lanka Government librarians’ Service. the number and the 
effective date of appointments shall be determined by the 
director General of combined Services. the appointing 
Authority shall reserve the right not to fill all or certain 
number of vacancies.
3.0 Salary:- According to the Public Administration 
Circular No: 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, salary code number 
applicable to Grade iii of Sri lanka Government librarians’ 
Service is MN -3-2016 and the monthly salary scale is                    
Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750  -                                                                                                                       
Rs. 57,550.
4.0 this post is permanent and pensionable. 
5.0 Service conditions :
 I. An officer appointed to the Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Government librarians’ Service on the results of 
the limited competitive Examination shall be 
subjected to a period of acting of one year from 
the date of appointment. Such officer shall be 
confirmed in the post if the Appointing Authority 
is satisfied to the effect that his/her work, conduct 
and attendance are satisfactory during the said 
period of acting. However the officer should pass 
the first Efficiency Bar examination within three 
(03) years from the date of appointment.
 II. The officer shall compulsorily serve at the service 
station to which he/she is appointed at first for 
three years. However, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to transfer any officer before 
the lapse of said period, on special reasons as 
determined by the same, if it is required to make 
such transfer.
 III. The officer is required to obtain the proficiency in 
the prescribed official language before the lapse 
of 05 years from the date of appointment as per 
the Public administration circular No. 01/2014.
6.0 Qualifications: - Applicants are required to possess 
following qualifications for sitting this examination.
6.1  Educational Qualifications :
 Shall have passed G.c.E. (o/l) examination 
with six (06) subjects including Sinhala/tamil/ 
English language and Mathematics with at 
least two credit passes at not more than two 
sittings.
6.2 Professional Qualifications :
(a) Shall have completed the first year of the 
three year diploma in library Science 
from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission.
  or
(b) Shall have successfully completed the 
first year of the three year diploma in 
library Science offered by Sri lanka 
library association.
6.3  Experience:
(a) Shall have been confirmed in the post 
of library assistant/library Employee 
of service category of departmental 
preliminary non skilled (Pl-01) in public 
service and completed an active service 
period of 10 years in the said post.
(b) If the certificate has been obtained by 
completing at least one of the above 
diploma course mentioned in (a) and 
(b) of 6.2 above, it is sufficient for such 
applicants to have been confirmed in the 
post of library assistant/library employee 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1015
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
hOmE AffAIRS, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS 
AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ 
Service - 2019 (2020)
1.0 accoRdiNG to the provisions of the Sri lanka 
Government librarians' Service Minute published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri lanka of No. 2024/35 dated 21.06.2017, the limited 
competitive examination for recruitment to Grade iii of Sri 
lanka Government librarians' Service shall be held in 
colombo in the month of November 2020 by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
2.0 The applicants who have satisfied qualifications 
based on the merit on the results of this examination 
: will 
be selected for appointment to the posts in grade iii of Sri 
lanka Government librarians’ Service. the number and the 
effective date of appointments shall be determined by the 
director General of combined Services. the appointing 
Authority shall reserve the right not to fill all or certain 
number of vacancies.
3.0 Salary:- According to the Public Administration 
Circular No: 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, salary code number 
applicable to Grade iii of Sri lanka Government librarians’ 
Service is MN -3-2016 and the monthly salary scale is                    
Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750  -                                                                                                                       
Rs. 57,550.
4.0 this post is permanent and pensionable. 
5.0 Service conditions :
 I. An officer appointed to the Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Government librarians’ Service on the results of 
the limited competitive Examination shall be 
subjected to a period of acting of one year from 
the date of appointment. Such officer shall be 
confirmed in the post if the Appointing Authority 
is satisfied to the effect that his/her work, conduct 
and attendance are satisfactory during the said 
period of acting. However the officer should pass 
the first Efficiency Bar examination within three 
(03) years from the date of appointment.
of departmental Primary unskilled 
Service category (Pl-01) and completed 
an active service period of 05 years as at 
closing date of applications.
Note:
1. (i)  the maximum age limit shall not be 
applicable in this regard.
 (ii)  As mentioned in (a) and (b) above, officers in 
Public Service are strictly allowed to sit for 
this competitive examination.  (Officers in 
Provincial Public Services are not allowed 
to sit for this competitive examination).
2. it is compulsory for every applicant to satisfy all 
the qualifications relevant to the post on or before 
the closing date of applications.
3. Every applicant shall be physically and mentally 
fit in every aspect to perform the duties of the post 
and to serve in any part of Sri lanka.
4. applicants shall be of exce llent character.
5. Shall have been confirmed in public service 
(mentioned in above 6.3 a and b) as at closing date 
of application. Should not have been subject to a 
disciplinary punishment as per the provisions set 
out in Public Service commission circular No. 
01/2020 and that fact shall be certified by the Head 
of the department.
7.0 Scheme of Examination.– this examination will 
consist of three question papers. the examination will be 
held in Sinhala, tamil and English media and the applicants 
will not be allowed to change the medium of examination 
selected by them.
Subjects Duration marks Pass 
mark
1. library Science 03 hours 100 40%
2. intelligence test 01 hour 100 40%
3. General knowledge 01 hour 100 40%
the syllabus prescribed for the above subjects is as 
follows :
7.1 (01) Library science :
1. Libraries and Librarianship
libraries and history of libraries
Role of the members of libraries.
 commencement and evolution of the 
books, various documents and non 
printed media.
Organization of professionals:
Sri lanka library association.
american and British library associations.
types of libraries
libraries in schools and academic 
institutions libraries in the Government 
Ministries, and departments
Public libraries
library committees.
conservation and preservation.
2. knowledge and Organization of 
Information
Classification of books, objectives and 
benefits of the same basic rules of 
classification of books
Dewey decimal classification 
cataloguing and objectives of cataloguing,
anglo-american cataloging Rules-2 (aacR)
Entries and book description 
types of catalogues.
3. Library Resources and Information 
Services
Various library resources
Selection of library resourses and the 
selection process. 
acquisition, and its process.
Processing.
Stock verification and weeding process.
4. Information Communication Technology
Effects of the computer technology on library 
services. 
 • Duration is 03 hours.
7.2 (02) Intelligence Test :
 this paper  will be designed to assess the applicant’s 
capacity for comprehension, quantification and 
perception of time-space relations by measuring 
applicant’s inference and responses to problems 
presented in verbal, numerical and spatial context.
• Paper consisting of 50 questions in the nature 
of multiple choice questions and questions 
for short answers. all the questions are 
compulsory. duration is 01 hour.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1016
7.3 (03) General knowledge
 this paper will be designed to assess the applicants' 
awareness and understanding of social, cultural, 
educational, political, economical and any other 
relating factors operating at national, regional and 
global environment or organizations as well as our 
society and also to assess general knowledge of 
applicants in Library Science and library field.
• Paper consisting of 50 questions in the nature 
of multiple choice questions and questions 
for short answers. all the questions are 
compulsory. duration is 01 hour.
Note : Applicants should score a minimum of 40% 
marks for each paper to become qualified for an 
appointment. appointments will be made strictly 
following the order of merit so as to fill the number 
of vacancies reserved for limited competitive 
examination.
8.0 Examination Fees.- Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. 
This fee can be paid to any Post Office or Sub Post Office 
under the head 20- 03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations. The receipt obtained should be affixed in 
the relevant cage of the application so as not to be detached. 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt for 
future reference.) it is kindly informed that any fee would 
not be charged in addition to the said exam fee. under no 
circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and 
money orders and stamps are not accepted.
9.0 Applications.- applications should be prepared in the 
following manner using both sides of a paper of size a4 (21 
X 29 cm) (normal half sheets).
(a) Cages from 1.0 to 3.4 should appear on the first 
side of the page.
(b) cages from 4.0 onwards should appear on 
the other pages using both sides of the sheet 
of paper and the application should be filled 
in the same language applicant expects to 
sit for the exam.
(c) the title of the examination appearing in 
the specimen should be indicated in English 
language as'well, on both Sinhala and tamil 
application forms.
9.1 Since applications which are incomplete and 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form included in the notification shall  be 
rejected without any notice, applicants shall 
ensure that the application complies with 
the specimen given in the notification, all 
the particulars included in the application 
are accurate, the examination fee has been 
paid and the details relevant to the same 
have been included in the application and 
the receipt is affixed before submitting the 
application. further, it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the completed  
application form and the receipt relevant to 
the examination fee and the applicants shall be 
responsible for any loss incurred by them due 
to incomplete applications.
9.2 all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees on or before the closing 
date of applications and affixed the relevant 
receipt and completed the application 
accurately shall be issued admission cards by 
the commissioner General of Examinations, 
on the presumption that only those who 
possess qualifications as indicated in the 
Gazette notification have forwarded their 
applications. issuance of an admission card 
to an applicant to sit for the competitive 
examination does not mean to have accepted 
that she/he possesses all the qualifications to 
sit for the examination or for this post. if it was 
found at the instant where the applicants have 
been called for the interview for verification 
of qualifications that the applicant does not 
possess the required qualifications, his or her 
candidature will be cancelled.
9.3  the words “Limited Competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to Grade 
III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ 
Service - 2019(2020)” should be written on 
the top left-hand corner of the envelope in 
which the application is enclosed
9.4  Examination Results :
 the results sheet prepared on the order of 
aggregate of marks of the applicants who 
secure not less than 40% for each subject 
as per note in 7.0 of this notification shall 
be submitted to the director General of 
combined Services, Ministry of Public 
administration, Home affairs, Provincial 
councils and local Government. action shall 
be taken by the department of Examinations 
to send the results to all the applicants 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1017
personally or publish the results in the 
website of the department of Examinations, 
Sri lanka www.results.exams.gov.Ik.
10.0 applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post through the Head of the department to 
reach the following address on or before 24th of August 
2020 and the applicants are requested to submit their 
applications to the Heads of department in advance.
Commissioner General of Examinations
Organization (Institutional and foreign Examinations) 
 branch
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka
P.O. box 1503,
Colombo.
11.0 Appearing for the Examination.- A notification will 
be published in the newspapers by the Sri lanka Examination 
department as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
applicants. if the admission card is not received even after 2 
or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to 
notify the organization (institutional and foreign 
Examinations) Branch of the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. When making 
such notice the name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, national identity card number and address shall be 
indicated accurately. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
it would be advisable to send a letter of request including the 
said details indicating a fax number to which a copy of the 
admission card can be obtained promptly to the fax number 
mentioned in the advertisement. it would be advisable to 
keep the following in hand at the time of calling in order to 
prove any detail inquired by the Department of Examinations: 
i.e. copies of the application form kept at your possession, 
the receipt obtained for the payment of the examination fee 
and receipt of registration of the application.
12.0 the Head of department should be prepared to 
release the officer if he/she is selected for an appointment. 
The Head of Department shall issue a certificate attached at 
the end of the application. further, Heads of departments 
shall approve duty leave for applicants who have been issued 
admission cards for the examination by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. travelling expenses shall not be 
paid.
12.1  Certifying the signature.– the signature of the 
applicant in the application and the admission 
card for the examination shall have been 
attested by the Head of department or an 
authorized staff officer.
12.2  Every applicant should furnish the admission 
card in which his/ her signature has been 
attested to the supervisor of the examination 
on the first day on which he/she sit for the 
examination.
13.0 candidates shall be required to prove their identity 
in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject they offer. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted.
(a) the National identity card,
(b) a  valid passport,
(c) Valid driving license of Sri lanka.
candidates should be dressed in a manner, which 
exposes the full face (including ears) ensuring their clear 
identification, when entering the examination hall. The 
candidates, who refuse to prove their identity in the said 
manner shall not be allowed to enter the examination hall. 
further, candidates should remain in the examination hall 
from the moment of entering and leaving the examination 
hall without covering the face and ears enabling the 
examiners to identify them easily. if someone refuses to 
follow this, he/ she can be allowed to sit for the examination. 
However, examination results shall not be issued for such 
candidates, since their identity cannot be proved.
14.0 Penalty for Furnishing False Information:- 
the applicant should be very careful to include correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any applicant 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. further, if it is 
found that any information furnished by a applicant is false, 
he/she is liable to dismissal from the public service at any 
time.
15.0 applicants shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for 
the purpose of conducting examinations and issuing results. 
the rules imposed for the applicants are printed separately 
in the Gazette Notification. They are liable to be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
16.0 this examination notification will be published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
any matter not referred to herein shall be determined by the 
director General of combined Services. all the applicants 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1018
shall be bound to act in accordance with the common rules 
and regulations indicated in this Gazette notification.
 S. alokabandara,
 director General of combined Services,
 Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
 Provincial councils and local Government.
Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
Provincial councils and local Government,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
09th of July 2020.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM
limited Competitive examination for reCrUitment to 
grade iii of Sri lanka government librarianS' 
ServiCe - 2019(2020)
(For office use only) 
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
   (indicate the relevant number  
   clearly in the relevant cage)
1.0 1.1  Name in full (In English block Capitals) :–––––––.
 1.2 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 1.3 Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.0 2.1  Name and Address of Office/Department/ Institution 
(In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of Office/Department /Institution 
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be 
sent (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1  Sex : Female  - 1  
   Male  - 0
   (indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 National identity Card No. :
 3.3 Mobile Phone Number:
 3.4  Date of birth:
  Date :              Month :             Year :
4.0  Particulars of the Service:
 4.1 Name of the institution where the applicant serves 
at present :–––––––––––––.
 4.2 Ministry or Department to which it belongs :                    
–––––––––––––.
 4.3 Clearly indicate the office and Head of the 
Institution, where your personal file is maintained 
:–––––––––––––.
 4.4 Designation of the Present Post :–––––––––––––.
 4.5 Date of appointment to the present post :––––––––.
 4.6 Whether you have been confirmed in the present 
post :–––––––––––––.
 4.7 If confirmed, the date of eligibility for confirmation 
:–––––––––––––.
 4.8 Reference No. and date of the letter of confirmation 
in the present post :–––––––––––––.
5. 0 Educational qualifications :
Particulars of three-year diploma course of which the 
first year has been passed by the applicant to be eligible 
to sit for this examination as per Para 6.2 (a) and (b) of 
the examination notification.
 I. University/Institute :–––––––––––––. 
 II. Name of the Diploma :–––––––––––––.
 III. Year in which the applicant passed the first year of 
the course :–––––––––––––.
6.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination 
fee :
 I. Post office/ sub post office to which the payment 
has been made :–––––––––––––.
 II. Number and the date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
 III. Amount paid :–––––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
7. 0 Applicant's Certificate :
 i. i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i agree to suffer any loss that may 
be caused as a result of any information not being 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1019
completed and/or any information erroneously 
being included here. further i also state that all 
sections herein have been correctly filled.
 ii. i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false, I am liable to be disqualified 
before appointment and to dismissal from service if 
the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
 iii. i hereby agree to abide by all the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations for the purpose of holding this 
examination.
 iV . i do not change any information mentioned herein 
later.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant's Signature
i  hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ..............................  
who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on 
..................... and further the officer has paid the prescribed 
examination fee and pasted the receipt on the application.
Date :–––––––––––––.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the  
 signature.
Full name of the Officer, attesting the Signature :––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certification by the Head of the Department
i certify that,
 i. Mr/Mrs/Ms ................................. the applicant, is 
presently employed in this department,
 II. He/She has been confirmed in the post of Library 
assistant/ library attendant and has completed a 
10 years of active period of service on or before the 
closing date of applications,
 III. A letter has been issued to him/her confirming in 
the post of library assistant/ library attendant,
 iV . he/she has not been subjected to a disciplinary 
punishment as per the provisions set out in Public 
Service commission circular No. 01/2020 as at the 
closing date of applications,
 V . He/ She can be released from the present post if 
selected for a post on the result of the examination,
 Vi. the particulars indicated in his/her application 
have been compared with the documents of the 
department and found to be correct and further he/
she is eligible to sit for the examination according 
to the regulations of the examination notification.
Date :–––––––––––––.
   ––––––––––––––––––––,
   Signature of the Head of the department
   and official stamp.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Note-
• The signature should be certified only by the Head 
of the Department or an authorized staff officer. The 
officer, who certifies, should be satisfied each 
and every way with the accuracy of information  
provided.
• The applications of those who do not meet the 
eligibility criteria shall not be submitted to the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
07–688
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION, 
hOmE  AffAIRS,  PROvINCIAL  COuNCILS 
AND  LOCAL  GOvERNmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ 
Service - 2019 (2020)
1.0 accoRdiNG to the provisions of the Sri lanka 
Government librarians' Service Minute published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of No. : 2024/35 dated 21.06.2017, 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1020
open competitive examination for recruitment to Grade 
iii of Sri lanka Government librarians’ Service shall be 
held in colombo in the month of November 2020 by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
2.0 The applicants who have satisfied qualifications 
based on the merit on the results of this examination will 
be selected for appointment to the posts in grade iii of Sri 
lanka Government librarians’ Service. the number and the 
effective date of appointments shall be determined by the 
director General of combined Services. the appointing 
Authority shall reserve the right not to fill all or certain 
number of vacancies.
3.0 Salary:- According to the Public Administration 
Circular No. : 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, salary code number 
applicable to Grade iii of Sri lanka Government librarians’ 
Service is MN -3-2016 and the monthly salary scale is                                                                                                          
Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11 x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 -                                  
Rs. 57,550.
4.0 this post is permanent and pensionable. the pension 
and the pension scheme entitled to the officers appointed 
to Grade iii of Sri lanka librarians’ Service shall be 
determined in accordance with the policy decision made by 
the Government in future.
5.0 Service conditions :
 I. An officer appointed to the Grade III of Sri 
lanka Government librarians’ Service on the 
results of the open competitive Examination 
shall be subjected to a probation period of 
three (03) years from the date of appointment. 
If an officer passes the first Efficiency Bar 
examination conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and the Head of the 
Department is satisfied to the effect that his/her 
work, conduct and attendance are satisfactory, 
it shall be informed to the director General of 
combined Services at the end of three years 
and the director General of combined Services 
shall confirm the officer in the post, of he is also 
satisfied on the same.
 II. The officer shall compulsorily serve at the 
service station to which he/she is appointed at 
first for three years. However, the Appointing 
authority reserves the right to transfer any 
officer before the lapse of said period, on 
special reasons as determined by the same, if it 
is required to make such transfer.
 III. The officer is required to obtain the proficiency 
in the prescribed official language before the 
lapse of 05 years from the date of appointment 
as per the Public administration circular No. 
01/2014.
6.0 Qualifications: - Applicants are required to possess 
following qualifications for recruitment to posts in Grade III 
of Sri lanka Government librarians' Service.
(a)  Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka
(b)  applicants shall be of excellent character.
(c)  Shall be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications.
 (Accordingly applicants whose date of birth 
falls on or before 24.08.2002 and on or  
after 24.08.1990 are strictly eligible to apply 
for the examination)
(d)  Educational Qualifications :
 i. Shall have passed the G.c.E. (o/l) 
examination at one sitting with six (06) 
subjects including credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil/English and Mathematics and two 
other subjects
  and
 ii. Shall have passed the G.c.E (a/l) 
examination at one sitting with all subjects
  (Except General test and General English)
(e)  Professional Qualifications :
 i. Shall have completed the three year diploma in 
library Science at a university recognized by the 
university grants commission.
  or
 ii. Shall have completed the three year diploma in 
library Science offered by Sri lanka library 
association.
  or
 III. 'Shall have acquired a higher qualifications in 
library Science than the (i) and (ii) above. (Such 
qualifications shall be determined by the Director 
General of combined Services communicating 
with the authorities of the relevant universities 
and Sri lanka library association).

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1021
Note:
 i. it is compulsory that all the applicants should 
satisfy all the relevant qualifications on or before 
the closing date of the application.
 ii. Every applicant shall be physically and mentally 
fit in every aspect to perform the duties of the post 
and to serve in any part of Sri lanka.
7.0 Scheme of Examination.– this examination shall 
consist of three question papers. the examination shall 
be held in Sinhala, tamil and English medium and the 
applicants will not be allowed to change the medium of 
examination selected by them.
Subjects marks Duration Pass 
mark
i. library Science 100 03 hours 40%
ii. intelligence test 100 01 hour 40%
iii. General knowledge 100 01 hour 40%
the syllabus prescribed for the above subjects is as 
follows :
7.1  (01) Library Science
 (1) Libraries and Librarianship
libraries and history of libraries, main 
libraries of the modern and ancient world
origin and evolution of the art of writing and 
other written media including books
origin of printing technology, expansion and 
the influence of the printing technology 
on libraries and the subject of social 
development
types of libraries
Special libraries
Structure, functions and services of 
libraries in the institutions such as 
Government Ministries, departments 
and co-operations and research 
libraries.
academic libraries
Structure, functions and services of 
libraries in universities and other 
higher educational institutions.
School libraries 
Public libraries
libraries in pirivenas, temples and 
libraries in other religious institutions 
library committees -Structure, necessity, 
significance and role
organizations of professionals in relation 
to field of library science and functions 
of such organizations - National & 
international levels (Sri lanka, india, 
america, Britain)
Buildings of libraries - Planning and other 
aspects to be considered
 Establishments of a library in an existing 
building, organization or improvement
Maintenance, conservation and preservation 
of library equipment
disasters and disaster management
(2) Organization of Information and 
knowledge
Objectives and benefits of book classification
Main classification methods applied in the 
libraries in Sri Lanka: Dewey decimal 
classification, universal decimal 
classification
objectives of cataloguing, anglo-american 
cataloging Rules (aacR)
Bibliographical description
compilation of entries using aacR-2  
(3) Library Resources and Information 
Services
  Various library resources
improving collections, policies for improving 
collections and importance of the same
acquisition, process including selection of 
library resources :
 i. Principals and sources of the 
selection of library resources;
 ii. t echnological services including 
acquisition process, processing;
 iii. Stock taking and weeding process.
Publishing, copyright and censorship 
current awareness service 
Educational programmes for readers
Public relations and publicity for libraries

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1022
(4) Information Communication Technology
application of computer technology in 
libraries, significance and productivity of 
information technology in library 
activities and functions
	a question paper consisting of 
structured essay type questions 
covering above 4 fields. All the 
questions are compulsory. duration is 03 
hours.
7.2  (02) Intelligence Test
 this paper will be designed to assess the 
applicant’s capacity for comprehension, 
quantification and perception of time-space 
relations by measuring applicant’s inference 
and responses to problems presented in verbal, 
numerical and spatial contexts.
	a question paper consisting of 50 multiple 
choice questions and questions for short 
answers. all the questions are compulsory. 
duration is 1 hour.
7.3 (03) General knowledge
 this paper will be designed to assess the 
applicants awareness and understanding of 
social, cultural, educational, political, economic 
and any other relating factors operating at 
national, regional and global environment or 
organizations as well as our society and also 
to assess general knowledge of applicants in 
Library Science and library field.
	a question paper consisting of 50 multiple 
choice questions and questions for short 
answers. all the questions are compulsory. 
duration is 1 hour.
Note: Applicants should score a minimum of forty 
percent (40%) marks for each paper to become 
qualified for an appointment. Appointments will be 
made strictly following the order of marks so as 
to fill the number of vacancies reserved for open 
competitive examination.
8.0 Examination Fees.- Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. 
This fee can be paid to any post office or sub post office 
under the head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations and the receipt obtained in the name 
of applicant should be affixed in the relevant cage of the 
application so as not to be detached. (it is advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the receipt for future reference.) it would be 
kindly informed that any fee is not charged in addition to 
the said exam fee. under no circumstances the examination 
fee will be refunded and money orders and stamps are not 
accepted.
9.0 Applications.– applications should be prepared in 
the following manner using paper of size a4 (21 X 29 cm) 
(normal halfsheets)
(a) Cages from 1.0 to 3.5 should appear on the first 
side of the page.
(b) cages from 4.0 onwards should appear on the 
other pages using both sides of the sheet of paper 
and the application should be filled in the same 
language applicant expects to sit for the exam.
(c) the title of the examination appearing in the 
specimen should be indicated in English language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application 
forms.
applications which are not prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form and which are incomplete and not 
perfected accurately shall be rejected without any notice. 
applications of those who haven't paid the examination fee 
on or before the due date shall also be rejected. applicants 
should be responsible for any loss incurred by them due to 
incomplete applications. it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the completed application form and the receipt. 
it is the responsibility of the applicant to make sure that the 
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice and the prescribed 
examination fee has been paid and the particulars are 
included in the application and the receipt is affixed. If 
otherwise the application may be rejected.
9.1 all applicants who are within the age limit 
indicated in the notification have forwarded the 
applications along with the receipt obtained by 
paying the prescribed examination fees on or 
before the closing date of applications shall be 
issued admission cards, by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, on the presumption 
that only those who possess qualifications as 
indicated in the Gazette Notification and within 
the range of age mentioned in the notification. 
issuance of an admission card to a applicant 
to sit for the competitive examination does not 
mean to have accepted that he/ she possesses 
all the qualifications to sit for this examination 
or for this post. if it was found at the interview 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1023
that the applicant does not possess the required 
qualifications, his or her candidature shall be 
cancelled.
9.2 the words “Open Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Government Librarians’ Service - 2019(2020)” 
should be written on the top left-hand corner 
of the envelope in which the application is 
enclosed.
9.3 applicant's signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government School, Justice of the Peace, 
commissioner for oaths, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an 
officer holding a gazetted post in the Police 
Service or an Officer in Staff Grade holding a 
permanent post in the Public Service.
9.4 applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address on or 
before 24th August 2020.
 Commissioner General of Examinations
 Organization (Institutional and foreign 
  Examinations) branch,
 Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka 
 P.O. box 1503, Colombo
10.0 Sitting for the Examination.– A notification shall be 
published in newspapers by the department of Examinations, 
Sri lanka as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
applicants. if the admission card is not received even after 2 
or 3 days of such notification, steps should be taken to notify 
the organization (institutional and foreign Examinations) 
Branch of the department of Examinations, Sri lanka in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. When making 
such notice the name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, national identity card number and address shall be 
indicated accurately. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
it would be advisable to send a letter of request including 
the said details indicating a fax number to which a copy 
of the admission card can be obtained promptly to the fax 
number mentioned in the advertisement. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the completed application form 
and the receipt obtained by payment of examination fee/ 
the receipt relevant to the examination fee, if the payment 
of examination fee is applicable and receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any particular requested by the 
department of Examinations. Every applicant shall furnish 
the admission card in which his/her signature has been 
attested to the supervisor of the examination on the first day 
on which he/ she sit for the examination.
11.0 Examination Results.– the results sheet prepared 
on the order of aggregate of marks of the applicants who 
secure not less than 40% for each subject as per note in 7.0 
of this notification shall be submitted to the Director General 
of combined Services, Ministry of Public administration, 
Home affairs, Provincial councils and local Government. 
action shall be taken by the department of Examinations to 
send the results to all the applicants personally or publish the 
results in the website of the department of Examinations, 
Sri lanka www.results.exams.gov.lk.
 
12.0 candidates shall be required to prove their identity 
in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject they offer. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted.
(a) the National identity card
(b) a  valid passport
(c) Valid driving license of Sri lanka
candidates should be dressed in a manner, which 
exposes the full face (including ears) ensuring their clear 
identification, when entering the examination hall. The 
candidates, who refuse to prove their identity in the said 
manner shall not be allowed to enter the examination hall. 
further, candidates should remain in the examination hall 
from the moment of entering and leaving the examination 
hall without covering the face and ears enabling the 
examiners to identify them easily. if someone refuses to 
follow this, he/ she can be allowed to sit for the examination. 
However, examination results shall not be issued for such 
candidates, since their identity cannot be proved.
13.0 Penalty for Furnishing False Information.- 
the applicant should be very careful to include correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any applicant 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. further, if it is 
found that any information furnished by a applicant is false, 
he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public 
service.
14.0 applicants shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for the purpose of conducting examinations 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1024
and issuing results. they are liable to be subjected to any 
punishment imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
15.0 This examination notification will be published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
any matter not referred to herein will be decided by director 
General of combined Services. all applicants are bound to 
comply with the general examination rules published in this 
Gazette.
 S. 
alokabandara,
 director General of combined Services,
 Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
 Provincial councils and local Government.
Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
Provincial councils and local Government,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
09th of July 2020.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM
open Competitive examination for reCrUitment to grade 
iii of Sri lanka government librarianS' 
ServiCe - 2019(2020)
(For office use only) 
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the correct number in the cage)
1.0 1.1  Name in full (In English block Capitals) :–––––––.
 1.2 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 1.3 Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.0 2.1  Permanent Address (In English block capitals) : 
––––––––––.
 2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be 
sent (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1  Sex : Female  - 1  
   Male  - 0
   (indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 National identity Card No. :
 3.3 Mobile Phone Number :
 3.4  Date of birth:
  Date :              Month :             Year :
 3.5 age as at 24.08.2020 :
  Years :               Months :                 Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications:
 4.1  Particulars of G.C.E (O/L) Examination :
  I Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––.
  II Index Number :–––––––––––––.
  III Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 4.2 Particulars of G.C.E (A/L) Examination :
  I Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––.
  II Index Number :–––––––––––––.
  III Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
 4.3 Particulars of three-year diploma/ the 
qualification in relation to Library Science 
obtained by the applicant to sit for the 
examination as per Para 6.0 (e) of the 
examination notification :
 I. Name of the University/Institute :––––––––.
 II. Diploma/Degree :–––––––––––––.
 III. Effective date of the Diploma/Degree :                  
–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.2020
1025
5.0 Other qualifications :–––––––––––––.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court 
of law?
 (indicate P in the Relevant cage) 
 (indicate particulars, if the answer is yes)   yes     No
 ..........................................
 ..........................................
7.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination 
fee:
 Post office/Sub Post Office to which the payment was 
made :–––––––––––––.
 Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––––. 
 Amount :–––––––––––––. 
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy with the applicant)
8.0 applicant's Certificate:
 i. i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i agree to suffer any loss that 
may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections 
and/or provision of erroneous information. i also 
state that all sections herein have been correctly 
filled.
 ii. i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false, I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service 
if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
 iii. i hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations for 
the purpose of holding this examination.
 iV . i shall not change any information mentioned 
herein subsequently.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
9.0 Attestation of Applicant's Signature :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ 
who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on ........................... and further the officer has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the 
applications.
Date :–––––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––. 
Address :–––––––––––––.
(To be affirmed by official stamp)
10.0 Recommendation of the Head of Department :
 (This part is strictly applicable to the officers in Public 
Service at present)
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. 
who is submitting this application, is serving in a permanent 
post at this Department, he/she has satisfied the qualifications 
for applying for this post as per this examination notification 
and it is possible to release him/her from the post held at 
present, if selected for the said post.
Date :––––––––––. ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(To be affirmed by the official stamp)
07–687
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNka.