

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1595
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1592
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"028 – 2017 cQ,s ui 14 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'07'14
No. 2,028 –  fRiday ,  July  14, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th august, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st  July, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.–  (i)  Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,027 of 07.07.2017 was not published.
 (ii)  the list of Jurors in Polonnaruwa Jurisdiction area in year 2017 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala 
and tamil languages only.
1589- B 81188- 5,403 (07/2017)
Note.–   (i) Provincial councils Elections (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 07, 2017.
 (ii) Sidney Jayarathne foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 07, 2017.
 (iii) J. Sri Ranga foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 07, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1590
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1591
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1592
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
 
ministry of Primary Industries
 
PoSt of lEGal officER (coNtRact BaSiS)
aPPlicatioNS are called for the post of Legal Officer (Contract Basis) of the Ministry of Primary Industries from 
citizens of Sri Lanka who have satisfied the following qualifications.
01. Task assigned to the Post.– Providing instructions for legal matters relating to Ministry, formulations of legal 
documents such as drafts of acts, regulations relevant to the Ministry and providing instruction for legal matters relating 
to development activities are assigned to this post.
02. Service Conditions.– the recruitment will be subject to a period of 03 years on contract basis and the 
service extent will be done under the annual performance. the selected applicant is liable to contribute to Public Service 
Provident fund. 
03. Age Limit.– the applicant should not be less than 21 years and more than 35 years as at the closing date of 
applications.
04. Monthly Salary Scale.– in terms of the Schedule i of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016, the initial salary step applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615/-, and the salary will be paid upon placing at the 
initial salary steps applicable as set out in Schedule ii in conformity with the provisions emboided in said P. a. circular.
05. Educational/ Professional Qualifications.– Have obtained a degree in law from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission and taken oaths as an attorney-at-law of the Supreme court.
06. experience.– Have earned a dynamic professional experience with not less than three (03) years after taking 
oaths as an attorney-at-law of the Supreme court.
07. Other.– Has a good command of English.
08. Method of Recruitment .– a structured interview will be conducted by a Board of interview appointed by 
the Public Service Commission for the applicants who have fulfilled the requirements prescribed in this notification and 
recruitment will be made on the merit of the aggregate of marks obtained in the interview. the following marking scheme 
will be based on awarding marks at the structured interview according to the marking scheme approved by the Public 
Service commission.
marking Scheme will be based at the Structured Interview as follows :–
Subject Maximum  
Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications
llB degree obtained from the recognized university
- first class Pass 
- Second class (upper division) Pass 
- Second class (lower division) Pass
First Class Honours Pass obtained at the final year of the Sri Lankan Law College
Second Class Pass obtained at the final year of the Sri Lankan Law College
Note: 10 marks should be given only if the applicant has been completed the final 
year examination, with Honours Grade. (Marks should be awarded only for the highest 
qualification that obtained for one of Degree or Law College qualification.)
20
15
10
15
10
20

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1593
Subject Maximum  
Marks
Post Graduate Diploma or Post Graduate Law Diploma related to relevant field obtained 
from recognized institution with not less than one year. 
(05 marks for each diploma course)
10
02 Additional Professional Qualifications    
Experience as attorney-at-law in public or private sector. 
More  than 06 months and less than 01 year - 02 marks
Maximum marks of 35, as 05 marks per each year (Except the service period of 03 
years being an Attorney-at-Law that required as a basic qualification.)
(The additional professional qualification should be confirmed by the Certificate  
obtained from attorney-at-law those who completed with not less than 20 years of  
service or President's counsel or Judge.)
35
03 Language Proficiency  
Post Graduate degree/ degree/ Post Graduate law degree in English medium 
(all the relevant exam papers should be answered in English medium)
a diploma in English language obtained from a university recognized by the 
university Grant commission or from an institution approved by the government.
(01 year or 1500 hours)
A Certificate Course in English Language obtained from a university recognized by 
the university Grant commission or from an institution approved by the government.
 - 06 months / 720 hours
 - 03 months / 360 hours
20
10
07
05
20
04 Qualifications related to Information Technology/ Computer Science  
information technology as a main subject of the degree obtained from a university 
recognized by the university Grant commission.
diploma in information technology with not less than 01 year from an institution   
recognized by the government.
  - 06 months / 720 hours
  - 03 months / 360 hours
20
10
07
05
20
05 Performance at the Interview 05
Total 100
 Method of Forwarding Applications.– The duly completed application along with each copy of Birth Certificate, 
National Identity Card, copy of certificates of Educational Qualifications, Professional Qualifications and Service 
Experience Confirmations should be sent by registered post to each the "Secretary, Minister of Primary Industries, 16th 
Floor, Suhurupaya, Battaramulla" on or before 28.07.2017. Applications received after the closing date of applications 
will be rejected. The words "Recruitment of Legal Officer (Contract Basis)" should be clearly marked on the top left hand 
corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
By order of the Public Service commission,
 Eng. Bandula Wickramaarachchi,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Primary Industries.
16th floor,
Suhurupaya,
Battaramulla. 
      

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1594
(For office use only) 
Specimen application Form
miniStry oF primary induStrieS
APPLiCATiOn OF LeGAL OFFiCeR 
(ContraCt BaSiS)
01. Name with Initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss)
 (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––. 
in English (Block capital letters) :–––––––––––. 
 1.1  full Name (write legibly)
   (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
    in English (Block capital letters) :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No : 
  
03. date of Birth: 
 Year:––––––––. Month :–––––––. Date :–––––––. 
 3.1  age as at the closing date of applications:
   Years :––––––. Months :––––––. Days :––––––.
04. Female/ Male :–––––––––––.
05. Status - Married or Single :–––––––––––.
06. Permanent address (write legible hand writing) :
  (i) in Sinhala/t amil :–––––––––––.
  (ii) in English Block capital letters :–––––––––––.
  
07. t elephone Number : 
 Home :–––––––––––.
 Mobile :–––––––––––. 
08. Highest qualification for English Languages :––––––.
09. details of the degrees:
  (i) university :–––––––––––.
  (ii) y ear of passed out :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Name of the degree :–––––––––––.
  (iv) language :–––––––––––.
 9.1  details of the Post Graduate degree :––––––––. 
10. date sworn in as an attorney-at-law :–––––––––––.
11. Service as a lawyer in the service as a Supreme court 
:–––––––––––.
12. Were you convicted by any court of law? yes/ No : 
–––––––––––.  
 12.1  it so, details :–––––––––––.
13. applicant declaration :
  
i………………. , declare that the particulars furnished 
by me in this application are true and correct. i certify that 
i have not been subject to any form of disciplinary action 
including dismissal from the service or retirement for 
general inefficiency as a merciful alternative to dismissal 
and i have not vacated the post perviously. i am also aware 
that, if any particulars contained herein are found to be 
false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if detected 
before selection and to dismissal without compensation, if 
detected after appointment. 
    
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
14. attestation of the applicant's signature :
 
i hereby certify that ……………………… (full Name) 
who submits this application is known to me personally, 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence                       
on …………………….
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the officer 
 attesting the signature.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––. 
address :–––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the official stamp)
15. attesting of the Head of institution (only for applicant 
who are in public service/provincial public service/ 
state corporations) :
 15.1 According to the personnel file of the officer, 
working history of previous five years, behavior, 
attendance are acceptable. all salary increments 
have been earned/ have not been earned.
 15.2 If this officer is selected for the applied post, 
he/ she can be released from current post. i 
recommend/ do not recommend the application 
and certify that this officer has been faced/ has 
not been faced to any inquiry up to date.
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of the institution.
date :–––––––––––.
07- 460

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1595
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
English Language Test for the Sri Lanka 
Principals’ Service - 2017 
01. iN accordance with the Sri lanka Principals’ Service 
Minute No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014; it is hereby notified 
that the English language Test - 2017 for the officers in 
the Sri lanka Principals’ Service will be conducted in 
colombo in october.
02.  Every officer of the Principals’ Service should 
obtain the Proficiency in the Link Language within three 
(03) years from the date of recruitment. If an officer has 
obtained at least a credit pass or a pass higher than that in 
the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination, the officer will 
be exempted from the requirement of passing the English 
Language Test. The other officers should pass this Test. 
03. the syllabus and the other Provisions applicable 
to this test have been published in the Gazette (Extra 
ordinary) No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014 of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka. the Syllabus and the other 
Provisions have been mentioned below for the convenience 
of candidates.    
 (a)  Procedure of the Examination – the Syllabus is 
as follows.
 (1) General English
  100 marks – duration 03 Hours
 
  Syllabus
  Suitable level of proficiency on the 
following forms of grammar in the written 
language is expected from the candidate:-
 - tenses and Numbers
 - Sentences (Simple/compound/complex/
compound complex)
 - Relative clauses
 - Reported Speech
 - adjectives and adverbs         
 - determiners
 - Prepositions
  the knowledge on the modern formats and 
styles of writing is tested in following area 
of study:-
 - Summary writing
 - Report writing
 -  Essay writing  
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
04. a candidate should score at least 40% or marks 
higher than that for this Subject in order to pass the test. 
4.1 the Result sheet including the results of all the 
candidates sat the Examination will be provided to the 
Secretary of the Ministry of Education. Personal result 
sheets of candidates will not be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
05.  in accordance with the following format, the 
application should be prepared in the way that numbers 01 
to 05 should appear on the first page while the rest should 
appear on the other pages and information related to the 
application should be clearly completed in their own hand 
writing in the medium of applying for the Test. It is notified 
that keeping a photocopy of the perfected application will 
be beneficial. Further, candidates should inquire whether 
the perfected applications are in conformity with the 
specimen application mentioned in the Notification of the 
test and applications that are not in conformity with the 
specimen application and applications, where information 
has not been stated completely will be rejected without any 
notice. further, it is informed that candidate should inquire 
again whether the prescribed Examination fees has been 
paid and particulars of the payment have been included in 
the application and whether the receipt has been affixed 
to the application before submitting the application and 
it will be beneficial to keep a photocopy of the perfected 
application and receipt related to the Examination fee. it 
is informed that it is required to indicate the title of the 
Examination appearing on the head should be mentioned 
in the English language in applications that are submitted 
in Sinhala in addition to Sinhala language or English 
language in applications that are submitted in tamil in 
addition to tamil language in the preparation of such 
applications.
06. the Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates 
are bound to adhere to the Rules and Regulations that 
are imposed by him for the conduct of the Examination. 
the Rules and Regulations of the Examination have been 
published at the end of this gazette Notification.
07.  applications should be sent by the Registered Post 
through Principal/divisional director of Education/Zonal 
director of Education or additional Provincial director of 
Education/Provincial director of Education or through the 
Head of your institution to reach commissioner General 
of Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, Sri lanka, Post Box 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1596
1503, colombo on or before 14th august 2017. the title 
of the Examination should be clearly mentioned on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application 
and applications that are sent after this date shall be 
rejected. 
08. A  newspaper notification on the issuance of 
admissions shall be published by the department of 
Examinations immediately after issuing admissions to 
candidates. a candidate, who does not receive his/her 
admission two or three days after publishing the notification, 
should inform the department of Examinations, Sri lanka, 
in a way that it is indicated in the advertisement. full name, 
address, National identity card Number of the candidate 
and the title of the Examination, for which the candidate has 
applied for should be indicated in notifying the department 
of Examinations. if the candidate resides outside colombo, 
it will be effective to fax a request letter along with such 
details of the candidate including a fax Number of the 
candidate to receive a copy of the admission via fax, to 
the Fax No. mentioned in the Notification. It will be useful 
to be in preparedness to produce a copy of the application 
that was kept by candidate, copy of the receipt obtained 
in cash payment of examination fees is the relevance and 
the receipt issued for sending the application in registered 
post in order to substantiate the candidateship of the 
applicant when making inquiries from the department of 
Examinations. issuance of an admission to a candidate 
should not be considered as an acceptance that he/she has 
fulfilled qualifications to sit the Examination.
09. Signature of candidate both in the application and 
the admission issued for the Examination should have 
been certified by the Head of the Institution or an Officer 
authorized by the Head of the institution. a candidate 
should sit the Examination at the examination hall 
prescribed for him/her under the prescribed index No.  and 
should hand over the admission, in which his/her signature 
has been attested to the Supervisor of the Examination on 
the Examination day. a candidate, who does not submit 
his/her admission is not permitted to sit the Examination. 
10. candidates are responsible to guarantee his/her 
identity at the Examination Hall. for that purpose,
 (i) Valid National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or,
 (ii) Valid Passport 
will only be accepted.
11.  examination Fees: -
 (a)  fees charged for this Examination will not be 
refunded under any circumstances and it is not 
allowed to transfer the fees for fees of another 
examination. further, money orders or stamps 
will not be entertained as the Examination fee 
and It will be beneficial for the candidate to 
retain a photocopy of the receipt issued after 
paying the Examination fees :
 (b) Fees will not be charged for the first sitting.
 (c)  Rs.250.00 each will be charged for each sitting 
subsequent to the first sitting. 
the receipt obtained by paying this Examination 
fee to any Post Office in the Island to be credited to the 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations should be affixed firmly inside the 
relevant cage of the application. It will be beneficial for the 
candidate to retain a photocopy of the receipt. 
12. candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations on 
the conduct of Examinations. it is informed that he/she are 
subject to any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in case such rules and regulations 
are violated. 
13. in case any inconsistency prevails among language 
texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the notification in the Sinhala medium 
shall prevail.
14. further, the Secretary of Education reserves the 
right of deciding any matter, which is not covered by this 
notification.
  Sunil hettiarachchi,
  Secretary,
  Ministry of Education.
At the Ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, Pelawatte,
2017.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
engliSh language teSt For the Sri lanka principalS 
Service – 2017
(Please submit to reach the commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations and foreign Examination 
Branch, department of Examinations, Sri lanka, 
P.B.1503, colombo through Principal/divisional or Zonal 
director of Education, additional Provincial director of 
Education/Provincial director of Education. the title of 
the Examination should be mentioned in the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope.)   

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1597
1. (a)  Name with initials by indicating initials at the end:  
  (With initials in English Block capitals) :–––––––.
   (eg: - GUNAWARDHANA, M.G.B.S.K.)
 (b)  Name in full (in Sinhala/in tamil) :–––––––––––.
 
2.  address :
 (i) Private :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Official :–––––––––––.
 (iii) address to which the admission should be sent 
:–––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals)
 (iv) Official Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
3. (i)   National identity card Number:
 (ii)  Sex: 
    female - 1  
    Male - 0  
  (Write the relevant Number inside the cage)
 (iii)  date of Birth:
  Year  Month  Date  
4.  class/Grade in the Principals’ Service :–––––––––––.
 School/Office :–––––––––––.
   Provincial Department of Education/ Zonal Office of 
Education :–––––––––––.
5 Subject No. :  
 
  (Write the relevant Subject Number inside the cage.)
6.  Particulars of the Receipt obtained after paying the 
Examination fees: 
   Recei pt No. :–––––––––––.
  Post Office :–––––––––––.
  date :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here
i, do hereby declare that the aforementioned information 
is accurate. further, i do agree to abide by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on the conduct of the Examination. 
                    –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
Commissioner General of examinations,
i do certify that the aforementioned candidate is an 
officer of my school/ office. Further, I do certify that the 
candidate is exempted from paying the Examination fees/
candidate has accurately affixed the receipt issued after 
paying the Examination fees.  
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Principal/divisional or Zonal 
 director of Education/additional Provincial 
 director of Education/ Provincial 
 director of Education.
(if a Principal, indicate the name of the School) 
(Substantiate it with the Official Frank) 
address:  .........................
date:  ...........................
(Please delete the words that are not applicable.) 
07–382
–––––––––––––––––
GAzETTE  NOTIfICATION fOR 
RECRuITmENT TO POSTS IN ThE 
GRADE III Of ThE SRI LANkA 
TEChNOLOGICAL SERvICE
tHE Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
lanka, Part i of the Gazette No. 2026 of 30.06.2017 of 
the (iia) paragraph under the Examinations, Results of 
Examinations in Gazette Notification of recruitment to 
posts in Grade iii of the Sri lanka technological Service 
of department of National Botanic Gardens attached to the 
Ministry of Sustainable Development and Wild Life and 
should be include 7.4 and 7.5 as follows :
 7.4 To be eligible under Limited Recruitment, 
category the candidates should have been 
made permanent with 05 years of active 
and satisfactory service in a permanent and 
departmentalized post in the relevant field of 
the department of National botanic Gardens 
as at the closing date. 
 7.5 Age limit.– Not applicable. 
 K. N. 
yapa,  
 the director General, 
 department of National Botanic Gardens. 
07–684

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1598
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION AND mANAGEmENT 
Amendment of Notification of Calling Applications
RECRUITMENT OF OFFICERS TO GRADE III IN SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERvICE – LIMITED
aPPlicatioN calling letter of the limited competitive examination for 2016/2017 recruitment of officers to grade III 
in Sri lanka Engineering Service, published in the gazette of Sri lanka democratic Socialist Republic No. 2027 dated 
07.07.2017 is amended as follows.
 (i) Amendment No. 01
closing date of the application calling mentioned in the page 05 of the above gazette notification is extended to 
11.08.2017.
 (ii) Amendment No. 02
Marking scheme shown by the No. 07 on page 06 of the above 
gazette notification is revised as follows.
• Before the amendment
Serial No. Subject
03
Educational and other qualifications (Maximum 10 marks)
Computer knowledge (Maximum 05 marks)
Maximum 05 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a diploma in 
information technology of not less than 6 months from an institution recognized by the government.
03 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed only a certificate course in 
information technology of not less than 3 months from an institution recognized by the government.
(Marks shall be awarded strictly for a maximum of one qualification. If an officer has submitted 02 
or more certificates, marks shall be allocated strictly for one certificate which includes the highest 
qualification.)
Proficiency in English language (Maximum 05 marks)
Maximum 05 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a diploma in 
English language from a university recognized by the university Grants commission or an institution 
recognized by the government.
03 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed only a certificate course in 
English language from a university recognized by the university Grants commission or an institution 
recognized by the government.
 (Marks shall be awarded strictly for a maximum of one qualification. If an officer has submitted 02 
or more certificates, marks shall be allocated strictly for one certificate which includes the highest 
qualification.)
• after the amendment
Serial No. Subject
03
Educational and other qualifications (Maximum 10 marks)
Computer knowledge (Maximum 05 marks)
Maximum 05 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a diploma in 
information technology of not less than 6 months from an institution recognized by the government.
03 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a certificate course or a diploma 
in information technology of not less than 3 months from an institution recognized by the government.
(Marks shall be awarded strictly for a maximum of one qualification. If an officer has submitted 02 
or more certificates, marks shall be allocated strictly for one certificate which includes the highest 
qualification.)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1599
Serial No. Subject
Proficiency in English language (Maximum 05 marks)
Maximum 05 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a diploma in 
English language from a university recognized by the university Grants commission or an institution 
recognized by the government.
03 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a certificate course or a 
diploma in English language from a university recognized by the university Grants commission or an 
institution recognized by the government.
 (Marks shall be awarded strictly for a maximum of one qualification. If an officer has submitted 02 
or more certificates, marks shall be allocated strictly for one certificate which includes the highest 
qualification.)
 (iii) Amendment No. 03
  optional subjects of the 3
rd test (civil) mentioned in page 08 of the above Gazette notification is revised as 
follows.
• Before the amendment
3rd test (civil)
 Optional Subjects: Candidate shall pass 01subject out of the following :
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Construction and maintenance of 
buildings 
05
Water supply and drainage 06
• after the amendment
3rd test (civil)
Optional Subjects: Candidate shall pass 01subject out of the following :
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Civil Engineering ii 42
Construction and maintenance of 
roads
43
 (iv) Amendment No. 04
  Recommendation of the Head of the department mentioned in page 07 of the above Gazette notification is 
revised as follows :
• Before the amendment
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………………………………………………….., officer in Engineering Assistants’ 
Service at the Department of Irrigation/ officer in Supervisory Management Service at the Department of Railway/ officer 
in Sri Lanka Technological Service (Previously known as MLT Service) has satisfied qualifications to be appointed into 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.07.2017
1600
a post in Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service and the application of the said officer is forwarded herewith for 
necessary action. further, a disciplinary action has/ has not been commenced against him/ her and information has /has 
not been submitted at present for initiating such action in future. (delete the words inappropriate)        
 ––––––––––––––––,
           Signature and official stamp (Secretary/ Chief Secretary/ 
 Head of the department).
date :–––––––––––.
• after the amendment
Recommendation of the Head of the Department 
Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………………………………………………….., officer in Engineering Assistants’ 
Service at the Department of Irrigation/ officer in Supervisory Management Service at the Department of Railway/ officer 
in Sri Lanka Technological Service (Previously known as MLT Service) has satisfied qualifications to be appointed into 
a post in Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service and the application of the said officer is forwarded herewith for 
necessary action. further, a disciplinary action has/ has not been commenced against him/ her and information has /has 
not been submitted at present for initiating such action in future. (delete the words inappropriate)        
The date which application is submitted by the officer : .......................................
 ––––––––––––––––,
           Signature and official stamp (Secretary/ Chief Secretary/ 
 Head of the department).
date :–––––––––––.
Amended application can be downloaded from the Ministry of Public Administration and Management official 
website.
  on the order of Public Service commission,
 J.J. rathnaSiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration and Management. 
 
        
Ministry of Public Administration and Management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
10th July 2017.
07-805
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOvERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.