

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
wxl 1862$8 – 2014 uehs 13 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2014'05'13
No. 1862/8 – TUESDAY, MAY 13, 2014
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A – G 19558 – 48 (2014/ 05)
My No. : CI / 139.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Singer Industries (Ceylon) PLC, No. 2, 5th Lane, Rathmalana of the one part and t he
Commercial & Industrial Workers’ Union (CIWU), No. 17,  Barracks Lane, Colombo 02 of the other part on 11th day of September 2013 is
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the, Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition
1956).
            V. B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
             Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
11th April, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 27 of 2013
Singer Industries (Ceylon) PLC Manual Workers’ & Factory Supervisory Staff Collective Agreement 2013
THIS COLLECTIVE Agreement made and entered into on this Eleventh day of September two thousand and thirteen between Singer
Industries (Ceylon) PLC having its registered office at No. 2, 5th lane, Rathmalana (hereinafter referred to as “the Employer”) of the One Part
and the Commercial and Industrial Workers Union (CIWU) being a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance, having
its registered office at No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 2, (hereinafter referred to as “The Union”) of the other part
N.B.- This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
WITNESSETH : Now therefore for and in consideration of the above premises and the mutual terms and conditions hereinafter set out, the
Union and the Employer hereby agree as follows ;-
1. Title : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the “The Singer Industries (Ceylon) PLC Manual Workers’ and Factory
Supervisory staff Collective Agreement 2013”.
2. Parties to be Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind by the Employer, the Union and all  members of the
Union employed by the Employer on monthly contracts in a Manual capacity and classified as skilled, semi skilled or Unskilled, in accordance
with the present scheme of classifications, members of the Union Employed in the Supervisory Grades and for whom salary scales have been
prescribed in the First Scheduled hereto at the Factory of the Employer at Ratmalana as at the date of signing hereof or at any time during the
pendency of this Agreement.
3. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall take effective from the  ELeventh day of September, Two Thousand and
Thirteen and thereafter continue in force unless it is terminated by either party with one month’s written notice to the other provided, however,
that such notice shall not be given prior to the Eleventh day of August Two Thousand & Fifteen and the Agreement shall not stand terminated
until Eleventh day of September Two Thousand & Fifteen.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–  (i) The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall as from the date hereof
and during the continuance in force of this Agreement be deemed to be included in all contracts of service between the Employer and an
employee covered and bound by this agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which are subsisting as at the date hereof
or shall come into being during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
(ii) Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitled or becomes entitled on or after that date under or by virtue of
any law or under any contract, agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favorable than those to which he would
be entitled to under the agreement, nothing in this agreement shall be deemed or construed to authorize or permit the Employer to
withhold, restrict or terminate such rights or privileges.
5. Classification of employees.–  Each employee shall be classified as either (a) Permanent (b) Probationer (c) Apprentice (d)
Temporary or (e) Casual. Every eligible employee at the time of his Appointment, Confirmation or Promotion shall be given a written letter of
appointment, Confirmation or Promotion, as the case may be by the Employer.
6. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months,
provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee, the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the Employee in
writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. The reasons shall be so stated before expiry of the original period of
probation. During the period of probation or extended probation, the Employer  shall have the right to terminate the service of the employee
without notice, without prejudice to the right of the Union to dispute such termination of services if the union considers it to be unjustified. If
the employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service during the period of probation or extended probation and the employee
has not been confirmed by the employer, the employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in the Employers service with effect from the day after
the date on which the period of probation or extended probation as the case may be ended.
7. Hours of Work.–  The normal working hours per day shall be 8 3/4 hours inclusive of meal interval of 3/ 4 hour from Monday
to Friday and 5 1/2 hours exclusive of a meal interval on Saturdays. The normal working hours shall be as follows:
(i) Monday to Friday - 7.00 a.m. to 3.45 p.m. (with a meal interval from 12.00 Noon to 12.45 p.m.)
(ii) Saturdays - 7.00 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. (there will be no interval for a meal )
The normal work schedule and meal intervals for employees on shift work may be revised in accordance with the operational
requirement on implementation.
Employees shall be allowed a tea break of 15 minutes each in the morning and afternoon as follows :-
(a) 8.00 a. m. to 8.15 a.m.
(b) 2.15 p.m. to 2.30 p.m.
Tea breaks and meals intervals will not be taken into account for purposes of computing production counts and man hours.
The normal hours of work applicable to Canteen and Conservancy Labourers shall be 6.00 a.m. to 2.45 p.m. on Monday to Friday
(inclusive of a meal interval of 45 minutes) and 6.00 a.m. to 11. 30 a. m. on Saturdays.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
Provided however, that the Employer may effect such reasonable changes in the work schedules in case of power stoppages/ raw
material shortages, urgent maintanance and other exceptional circumstances having due regard to the convenience of employees affected
thereby, the employees shall comply with such changes subject to the right of the Union to raise a dispute in respect of such change in terms
of Clause 32 hereof.
8. Forfeiture of Wages.–  Where Unless for good cause shown, an Employee fails to hold himself available for work throughout the
normal working hours, such  employee shall forfeit and the  Employer shall be entitled to deduct his wages for the period of such failure.
9. Overtime .–
(a) Overtime work will be performed by an employee as and when, and for such period as the Employer may reasonably require,
provided there is no good reason for refusal.
(b) Overtime, i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours, shall be remunerated at one and half (1 1/ 2) times the normal
hourly rate.
10. Weekly Holidays.-
1. In respect of each week, every employee shall be allowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weekly holidays,
provided, however, that if any employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, such employee shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct
one days’ wages in respect of the weekly holidays for that week, computed in accordance with Clause 19 hereof.
2. In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in Sub - clause (1) above the Employer shall include :—
(a) every holiday or leave allowed by the Employer of the employee as Annual, Casual or Sick leave ;
(b) every Public Holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 13 hereof ;
(c) every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer
3. The Employer may employ any employee on a weekly holiday as and when and such  period as the Employer may reasonably
require, provided there is no good reason for refusal by such employee subject to the following conditions :—
(i) A day within the six days succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee as a Holiday with remunera-
tion, provided, however, that if any employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the Employer
is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in Sub clause (1) then and in such event
that employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of Clause 19  in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that employee within the six (06) days of  that
weekly holiday, provided further that in respect of not more than two (02) such weekly holidays in any  calendar month
the Employer may with the consent of the employee :—
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid,
pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 hereof in lieu of such alternate
holiday, or
(b) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s
wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) That in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–
(a) one and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 (i)
hereof for the number of hours worked during the first eight (8) hours (exclusive of  the meal intervals); and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 (i) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
11. Annual Leave .-
(1) Fourteen days Annual Leave shall be allowed to employees in each year in accordance with the present agreed practice, of
which seven days shall be set off for the Annual “shut down” of the Factory. In the case of employees in the first year of
their employment Annual Leave shall be allowed in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for the Engineering
Trade.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(2) The balance portion of the Annual leave referred in sub-Clause (1) above shall be availed of by any employee with the prior
consent and approval of the Employer.
(3) The Employer shall be entitled to effect an Annual “Shut Down” of the Factory subject to the following conditions :
(a) The period of the “Shut Down” shall be decided by the Employer in consultation with the Branch Union.
(b) The period of the “Shut Down” shall be limited to incorporate a maximum of seven working days, Unless otherwise
mutually decided by the Employer and the Branch Union.
(c) The number of working days falling during the “shut Down” will be set off against the Annual leave of each employee.
Provided however that if at the time of the “Shut Down” an employee is not entitled to Annual leave, or is not entitled
to Annual leave to the extent of the number of working days covered by the period of the “shut Down”, the period of the
“shut Down” or the difference between such employee’s entitlement and the period of the “shut Down” will be on no
pay.
(d) It shall be a conditon that the period of the “shut Down” shall be a period of compulsary attendance for tool Room
employees. Other employees whose services are specifically required for maintenance work by the employer during the
“shut Down” will be informed two weeks before the “shut Down”.
12. Casual Leave . –
(a) In respect of each year of employment, during which any employee has been continuously in employment that Employee shall
be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health, if that employee’s entitlement
to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the period or an
aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (07) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be liable to pay
such remuneration provided, however, that not more than two (02) days’ Casual Leave shall be taken at any time save and
except upon the ground of ill health. Provided that any employee shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave immediately
preceding or immediately following any period of Annual leave. Provided further that in respect of any employee’s first year
of employment, including any period of probation he Shall be entitled to Casual Leave for that year computed on the basis of
one day for each completed period of two month’s service.
(b) Casual Leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state  the reasons for the
application. Where the Employer finds it difficult to grant and application for Casual Leave such difficulty shall be notified to
the employee as soon as possible after the application is made, and in such case the employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him
Casual Leave.
13. Public Holidays.– The Employer shall allow the following holidays in each year as paid holidays : -
(1) (i) The Tamil Thai Pongal Day
(ii) National Day (February 4th)
(iii) The day immediately prior to the Sinhala and Tamil New Year day
(iv) The Sinhala & Tamil New year Day
(v) May Day (May 01st)
(vi) The day immediately following the Full Moon Poya Day of the Sinhala month of Vesak
(vii) Milad-Un-Nabi (Holy Prophet Mohamed’s Birthday)
(viii) Christmas Day
(2) If any holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provision of sub clause (i) hereof falls on a Sunday, a day either in
six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public Holiday shall be granted to the
employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provision of Clause 10 hereof.
(3) If any holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provision of subclause (i) hereof falls on a Saturday, the number of
hours constituting the normal working day (inclusive of 3/4 hour for meals) on the day immediately preceding such Public
Holiday shall be as on a Saturday.
14. Full Moon poya holidays.– Full moon Poya day will be a paid holiday for all monthly rated employees covered by this agreement.
Any monthly rated employee covered by this agreement who is required to work on this day shall be remunerated at one and half (1 1/2) times
the daily rate ascertained in accordance with the provision of Clause 19 (ii) hereof, irrespective of the number of hours worked during normal
working hours.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
15. Sick Leave.–
(1) An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty one (21) days leave exclusive of weekly or other holidays in any one
year, in case of sicknesses on full pay, subject to the conditions in Sub-clause (2) hereof.
(2) The employer will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a
Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) Where such period of absence exceeds two (2) days or
(b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a medical
practitioner, is in excess of ten (10) days in any one year and the employer has reasonable cause for suspicion
of the bona fides of the application of the employee.
(c) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any holiday
allowed under Clauses 11, 12 & 13 hereof.
Provided further that any employee who has abused the concession conferred para (a) above shall be liable to
forfeit the same and the employer may by agreement with the Union accordingly withdraw such concessions.
(3) An employee who takes less than twenty one (21) days sick leave in any one year as prescribed above, shall be entitled to
avail himself of balance entitlement in any succeeding year or years. Provided however, that in no case shall the entitlement
of sick leave on full pay in any one year by reason of such accumulation of sick leave entitlement exceed 90 days. Provided
however, that such accumulated sick leave shall be availed of only for the following purposes:
(1).
Hospitalisation - Only in Government hospitals and subject to production of Medical Certificate from the same hospital
(2). Infectious diseases - Subject to production of an Official Medical Certificate from the respective M.O.H., P.H.I or Panel
Doctor.
(3). Accidents at work - For periods not covered by leave under the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance.
(4). Other accidents - Subject to production of Medical Certificate from the Government Hospital treating the employee or
a Panel Doctor.
(5) As a supplement to leave granted in case of TB/ Leprosy. Provided further that an employee may avail himself of the
accumulated leave for aforementioned purpose before he has exhausted his Sick leave entitlement for the current year.
(4) An employee who was in the employment of the Employer prior to the date hereof shall be entitled to accumulated Sick leave
as prescribed in sub clause (3) above in respect of any period of employment under the Employer after 1st January 1979.
16. Wages :- The Employer shall as from the Eleventh Day of September 2013 pay wages to the employees in accordance with the
scales of consolidated wages set out in the First Schedule annexed hereto.
(i) To ascertain the monthly wage payable to an employee with effect from 11th day of September 2013 the following
provisions shall apply ;
(a) A sum of Rs. 2,000/= will be added to the wages paid to an employee as at 11th day of September 2013.
(b) To the amount arrived at in terms of (a) above a sum of Rs. 15/= per each completed year of service per employee
as at 11th day of September 2013. will be added.
(c) A sum of Rs. 300/= will be added to the Supervisory Grade for responsibility.
(d) Increments of all Grades will be increased by Rs.25/= and the revised increments are indicated in the First
Shedule annexed hereto.
Each employees shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point in the grade applicable to him in the scales of consolidated wages set
out in the first shedule hereto. In the event of there being no corresponding point, the employee shall be placed on the next higher point on the
grade applicable to him.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
16. a) (i) NOTIONAL ARREARS.– A lump sum payment of Rs. 28,000/-  as Notional Arrears would be payable one week after the
singing of the Collective Agreement. Such Notional Arrears would not attact EPF/ ETF and other statutory payments.
(ii) With effect from 11th September 2014 the Employer shall increase the wages of the employees by a sum of Rs. 600/- to each
employee.
Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point in the grade applicable to him in the scales of
Consolidated wages inclusive of Cost of Living Payment, set out in the first shedule hereto. In the event of there being no
corresponding point, the employee shall be placed on the next higher point on the grade applicable to him.
(iii) The increases in paragrhaphs I and II above which applies to individual employee wages covered by this agreement and
shall not be included into the salary scale in Annexure - 1 to this Collective Agreement which would remain same.
(iv) If during the continuance in force of the Agreement the government of Sri Lanka.
(01) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the Employer will pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law :
(02) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer covered and bound by
this Agreement, irrespective of whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this
Agreement.
17. Allowance. –
(a) Each employee shall be paid a shift allowance as agreed in 1997 subject to revision on implementation of shift work.
(b) The employer agrees to provide the Laundry Facility by making internal arrangements for same. However, the employer
may has the option of making an allowance according to the prevailing market price. The said market price will be reviewed
only twice a year.
(c) An employee who is called upon to act for a Charge Hand, Quality Control Inspector, Forklift Operator, Storeman and
Canteen Supervisor (only when the Canteen Supervisor is on half day’s leave) shall be paid an allowance of Rs. 35/= for
08 hours.
(d) Employees shall not be entitled to any other allowances.
18. Increments. – Annual Increments shall be paid in January or in July of each year as specified in the Letter of Appointment of each
employee. The Annual Increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule hereto shall be automatic
unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency or disciplinary action on account of established misconduct an increm ent is
suspended, stopped or deferred in which case an increment is ;
(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop the increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
accrue to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the employee has been notified in
writing of a complaint against such employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of ineffciency, fraud or miscon-
duct, which in the circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
The Management may grant double increments to all employees in any Section if such Section achieves production targets,
quality improvements, reduces scrap as set by the Management.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
19. Wages for periods less than one month. – For the purpose of this Agreement the wage of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following;
(i) For one hour : The monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(ii) For one day : The monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(iii) For one half-day : A day’s wage ascertained as above (either morning or evening) divided by two (2)
(iv) For one week : 1 day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
20. Non Recurring cost of Living gratuity. – With regard to th COLA, the company will continue with the present practice as
stipulated in the Memorandum of understanding dated 15th November 2011, signed between the company and the Commercial and industrial
Worker’s Union. The Practice of the company in relation to the enhanced value of the unit cost of the Cost of Living Index, which has been
granted to the employees already in September 2012 will be continued.
21. Provident fund. - The minimum rates of contribution to the Employee’s provident fund shall be 12% by the Employer and
8% by the employee. of the employee’s earnings as defined by the Employee’s Provident Fund Act.
22. Bonus :
(1) The Employer will pay a sum equal to one month’s wages to each employee by way of Bonus each year.
(2) If the Employer finds it necessary in his discretion to reduce the quantum of Bonus payment in respect of any year, the Branch
Union in the Company may canvass the question of the reduction with the Employer. If the Branch Union is not satisfied by
the response of the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue the matter with the federation. There upon the Federation
will consider the matter and advise the Employer in such manner as the Federation deems fit in the circumstances. If the Union
is not satisfied in regard to the quantum of Bonus payment finally decided on by the Employer in the light of the advice given
by the Federation, the Union will not pursue the matter further, by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
pendency of this Agreement.
(3) Payment of a Bonus, higher than the quantum referred to in sub clause (1) above, will be at the sole discretion of the Employer
and the payment of such higher Bonus shall not be the subject to any dispute.
(4) Any employee who has ceased to be employed prior to the date of payment of the Bonus referred to herein, shall be entitled
to a proportionate payment calculated upto the last completed month of service prior to the termination of his contract.
However such employee shall not be entitled to the payment of the proportionate share of the variable Bonus referred to Sub
Clause (3), until such time as the variable Bonus is declared by the Management. The Management shall notify such employee
the date of payment of such proportional share of the variable Bonus to his last known address.
(5) The Employer and the Union reserve the right to review the provision of this clause in the event of profit sharing or employee
participation in profits becoming compulsory by virtue of any law. Any dispute arising there from shall be dealt with, as
provided in Clause (31) hereof.
23. Promotions: – The following shall be the principles which would guide the Employer on the question of promotions : -
(1) Mere length of service shall not be the sole criterion for promotions and the Employer shall be entitled to take into account
other factors such as efficiency, educational qualifications. Where suitability is comparable, seniority shall be given prefer-
ence.
(2) Promotions will depend on the availability of vacancies in the Higher Grades and the ability of the employees to perform the
duties in the Higher Grade to the satisfaction of the Employer.
(3) Where an employee is promoted from one grade to another in accordance with the preceding clause (1) and (2), such employee
shall be placed at a wage not less than which he would have received at the next normal incremental date, had he remained in
the grade from which he is promoted.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(4) Those who are serving or had served in a particular department in which the vacancy exists, will be given preference,
considering the period of such service. If no applicants are available form the department in which the vacancy has occurred
applicants will be considered on the basis of (1), (2) and (3) above.
24. Resignation.- An employee may resign by giving notice or making payment of wages in lieu of notice, as prescribed in his letter
of Appointment. An employee who resigns from his post without giving without giving the stipulated notice or payment in lieu of such notice
shall be liable to reimburse the Company the amount due by way of wages in lieu of notice and such amount shall be set off from any amounts
due to the employee from the Company.
25. Transfers.-
(1) An employee may be transferred from one operation to another within the same department if in the opinion of the Employer,
there is no other  employee in such Department possessed of such skill as is required to carry out the job/ operation to which
such employee is to be transferred.
(2) If work is temporarily not available in his own job, an employee will be offered such other work as the Management may so
direct within his skill.
(3) An employee could also be transferred from one Department/ Section / Operation to another Department/ Section / Operation
on the grounds listed below after stating reasons for such transfer.
(a) On account of conduct and/ or application to work after assigning the specific reason for such a transfer.
(b) On consideration of application made by an employee or after an employee expresses willingness to such a transfer.
26. Warnings :- Where the Employer is of the opinion that the conduct of an employee warrants a warning, the same shall be
conveyed to the employee by a letter and a duplicate of the said letter shall be signed in acknowledgement by the employee, subject to the right
of the Union to raise a dispute in terms of Clause (31) hereof.
27. Suspension :- Subject as hereinafter provided, an employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer :-
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct where such charge or charges relate
to :
(i) Fraud, theft, misappropriation or a like offence by the employee in the course of his employment ;
(ii) Abuse, threat or gross insubordination by the employee to the Employer or to any other employee of the Employer,
whether such other employee is a member of the supervisory staff or otherwise;
(iii) In the event of, or in order to avoid, a breach of the peace or any disturbance at or about the undertaking of the
Employer, or to prevent damage being caused to such undertaking as a result of the conduct of the employee, provided
however that the Employer shall be entitled to suspend an employee only for so long as the employee’s continuance in
employment will or is likely to be undersirable or to be prejudicial to the proper investigation of the Charges or the
Employer carrying on its business ;
(b) As a punishment for misconduct for a period of not exceeding seven (07) working days, after due inquiry;
(c) If any employee fails to carry out the Employer’s written instructions.
At the time of the suspension, or within twenty four (24) hours thereof, the employer shall provided the employee with a
written order of suspension specifying the reason for such suspension.
28. Disciplinary Action : - Where the Employer proposes to proceed against any employee, then : -
(1) Irrespective of whether, an  such employee has been suspended under Clause (28) or not, the employee shall be furnished
with a show cause Notice which shall set out the particulars of the chargers misconduct alleged against  such employee, and
such show cause notice shall give the employee not less than five (05) working days in which to give the answer or
explanation,  to the chargers preferred.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(2) Within five (5) working days after the date of the show Cause Notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the Employer
the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such employee. Provided however, that if in the circumstances it
is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the written answer or
explanation to the show Cause Notice, and where such request is made by an employee to the Employer, the Employer, shall
grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(3)  If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee shall, if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all emoluments and entitlement due during the period of such suspension.
(4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee to the show Cause Notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14) working
days from the date of receipt by the Employer of the written answer  or explanation to the show Cause Notice.
(5) After holding such inquiry, the Employer shall notify the employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show Cause
Notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the Show Cause Notice within thirty (30) working days from
the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the employee shall not  be liable to be punished thereafter, in respect of such
charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn from such charges.
(6) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes orders that ;
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed, then the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall, subject to
Clause (27) (b) hereof, be paid all emoluments and entitlement due during the period of suspension, irrespective of
such other punishment less than dismissal  that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as the charges in the
Show Cause Notice.
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee’s suspen-
sion and accordingly employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show Cause Notice against the employee, the employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquires and that the matter be therefore, referred to the police or other authorities or in
view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employee the matter had been previously
referred to the police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or
inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances, the employee may remain suspended without pay.
(7) If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein, the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee’s own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from the date of the employee’s suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the period
of thirty (30) working days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period in excess of thirty (30)
working days upto the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause,
irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) In any case, where an employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to
(c) of sub clause (6) within Ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the employee, unless he is prevented from so doing
by reason of the employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the
Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case, the period of Ninety (90) days be extended for such further time
as may be agreed.
29. Retirement. –  The age of retirement shall be 60 years of age. An employee would also have the right to retire on reaching the age
of 55 years or any time thereafter.
30. Carrying out Employer’s Instructions as to Duties. –
(1) If an employee considers that any duty which he is required to perform by the Employer does not fall within the scope of his
employment in the Company, the employee shall be entitled to bring such matter to the notice of the Employer. If notwith-
standing such notification, the Employer requires the employee to carry out such instructions, then the employee shall be
entitled to request the Employer to give him such instructions in writing.

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(2) If the Employer gives the employee such instructions in writing, the employee shall carry out same but without prejudice of
the right of the employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute the same with the employer.
(3) If the Employer refuses to give such instructions in writing the employee shall be entitled to refuse to carry out such
instructions and in that event the Employer shall have no right of action against the employee.
(4) If the Employer gives such instructions in writing but the employee fails to carry out the same, the Employer shall be entitled
to suspend the employee immediately without pay and to take disciplinary action against him without prejudice of the right of
the employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such suspension or such disciplinary action, as may
be taken against the employee as provided in this Agreement.
31. Grievance and Dispute Procedure. –  Subject to the provisions of clause 33 hereof, in the event of any dispute or grievance
other than a dispute or grievance in relation to any kind of Bonus arising between an employee or employees and the Employer, or betweeen
the Union and the Employer, the following procedure shall be followed for the settlement of such dispute or in resolving such grievance :
(a) The employee or the Branch Union representative will, in the First instance, raise the dispute or grievance with the Foreman/
Departmental Manager.
(b) If the dispute or grievance is not satisfactorily resolved, the employee or the Branch Union representative will then represent
matters to the Manager Human Resources or Assistant Manager - Human Resources in writing and the manager, Human
Resources/ Assistant Manager, Human Resources will discuss the matter with the employee or the Branch Union represen-
tative and endeavor to bring about a settlement.
(c) If no satisfactory solution is arrived at, then the issue in dispute will be discussed by the Branch Union and the Group Director
- Human Resources / Factory Director/ Managing Director/ Chairman.
(d) If the Union is not satisfied with the decision of the Employer in this matter, the Union may pursue the matter with the
Employer’s Federation of Ceylon, of which the Employer is a member.
(e) Nothing contained in sub-Clause (a) to (d) will prejudice the right of the Union to take up with the Employer or with the
Federation any dispute the Union may consider necessary.
(f) In the event of a dispute or grievance not being resolved or settled under the preceding Sub-Clauses and if the Union or the
Employer requests a reference of the dispute under the Section 3 (1) (d) of the Industrial Dispute Act and regulations made
hereunder for settlement by arbitration, the other party shall consent to such reference.
32. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementation under this agreement shall be dealt with. –  Any anomaly arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiations between the Employer and the Union or between the Federation and the
Union. and if the matter cannot be settled by negotiations, the matter shall be settled by reference to arbitration under Section 3 (1) (d) of the
Industrial Disputes Act.
33. Trade Union Action. –  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
employer that during the contnuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union Action against
the Employer in respect of any dispute between the Employer on the one hand and the Union and its members and/or any employee o r
employees covered and bound by this Agreement  on the other hand, whether or not such dispute is relative to this Agreement. Pr ovided
however, that this Clause shall not apply in respect of any dispute arising out of any breach by the Employer of the provisions of Clause (28),
Clause (31) and Clause (34) hereof.
34. Unfair Labour Practice .–
(a) Any person bound by this Agreement shall not during the currency of this Agreement instigate, support or engage in any
unfair labour Practice.
(b) The Employer will not take any action which is calculated to undermine the existence of the Union in the establishment of
the Company.
35. Variation of Terms and conditions of Employment or Benefits.–
(a) The Union and its members and employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they shall not seek to vary or add to all or any of the terms

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
and conditions of the employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered by and bound by this agreement,
or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employee covered and bound by this Agreement other than by
mutual agreement.
(b) Subject to the terms of this Collective Agreement, the Employer agrees that it shall not seek to vary or add to all or any of
the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this
Agreement or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement
other than by mutual agreement.
(c) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under the provisions of sub-  clauses (a) and (b) may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
36. Union Meetings. –
(i) The following provisions shall apply to the meetings of the Branch Union :-
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Branch Union desires to hold at the Company’s premises, an application for
permission shall be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia one or more of the
under mentioned conditions.
(i) That no person other than an employee in the service of the Company shall be present at the meeting of the
Branch Union.
(ii) On occasions such as a General Meeting, Office Bearers of the Parent Union may, with the previous
approval of the Employer, be present.
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold
a meeting of the Union were granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of
or in connection with a meeting of the Branch Union to the Employer’s property or any other person at the
Employer’s premises and the Union shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any
such damage.
(ii). Annual General Meeting.–  Members of the Branch Union will be allowed two (2) hours leave without loss of pay to attend the
Annual General Meeting of the Branch Union on a week day on one day in the year provided the Employees agree to a short
lunch lnterval of 20 minutes. On such day, the Factory will be closed at 1.20 p.m. The date of the Annual General Meeting
will have to be agreed upon between Employer and the Branch Union taking into account the exigencies of the work in the
Factory.
37. Duty Leave. –   The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :-
(a) Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permission if, in its discretion, the exigencies of the
circumstance warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of  the Branch
Union :-
(i) To be present at discussions and conference held with the Employer or under the aegis of the Department of Labour, in
connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer, or
(ii) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals; without loss of wages for such absence.
(b) The Following provision shall apply to meetings of the Executive Committee of the Union :-
(i) Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permission if in its discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission to members of the Executive Committee, of

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
the union, in order to attend a meeting of the Executive Committee to leave Office not earlier than 1 O’clock in the
afternoon on not more than one occasion in a month without loss of salary for such absence, if applications for
permission to attend is made at least forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting of the
Executive Committee.
(ii) For the purpose of paragraph (i) above, the Union shall forthwith furnish the Employer, in whose service there are
members of the Executive Committee  of the Union, with a list of such members and keep the Employer informed of all
changes therein, which may be made from  time to time.
(iii) The Employer will grant Duty Leave to the Nominated Branch Union delegates to attend the Delegates Conference once
in 2 years.
(c) The provision of the preceding sub-clauses (a) and (b) shall not be in derogation of any existing concessions or facilities granted
by the Employer to the Branch Union regarding Union meetings.
38. Check Off. –
(a) This clause shall apply to the Employer so long as the Union maintains a membership of not less than forty per centum (40%)
of the employees of the Employer, employed in manual and labouring capacity at the Factory at Ratmalana.
(b) The Employer shall, on the written request of an employee, deduct from the wages due to such employee the current monthly
Union, dues as are specified by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit the amount so
deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(c) Every employee, who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his  wages, shall sign an authorisation and forward it to the
Employer.
(d) Every employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that effect and
forwarding the same to the Employer.
(e) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorisation shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorisation and shall continue thereafter until the authorisation is cancelled by a revocation.
(f) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorisation shall ease from the date of receipt of a revocation canceling such
authorisation, provided, however :-
(i) That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the employee concerned for the failure
to comply with sub - clauses (d) or (e)
(ii) That at its discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of Check Off in any month in which
the deductions by way of Check Off will together with all other deductions from an employee’s wage in that month
exceed the deductions permitted by Law.
(g) The Employer shall, not later than the Tenth day of each month remit to the Union, dues deducted from the wages of
employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Commercial and Industrial Worker’s Union (CIWU)
in accordance with the tenor of each authorisation, by a cheque payable to the Treasurer hereof, and crossed “Account payee”.
(h) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned, by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to
the Treasure of the Union at its address for the time being.
(i) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(j) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the union
dues actually deducted.
39. Structural Changes of Organization. – The Union and it’s members agree to amalgamate the WWF- A and WWF-B departments
with effect from the date of the signing of this Collective Agreeemt.

<!-- page 13 -->

13 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
40. Work Arrangements - Allocation of Supervisors. – The Management at it’s discretion would allocate one or two Charge Hands
in the Assembly Line Department Considering the work to be performed during overtime.
41. Punctuality. – The Management will initials strict disciplinary action against employees in respect of not reporting to work on time
and not commencing work at 7.00 a.m. in all departments.
42. Report For Work. –  The union and members agree that employee who would not be coming for work whole day, must inform
the Guard Room before 11.00 a.m. of that particular day.
(43) Medical payments. – Arrangements will be made to pay Medical Claims on three (03) days of the week. i.e. Monday.
Wednesday and Friday, in case  of holiday falling on any of these days the payment will be made on the following working day.
(44). Deployment of Labour. –  The Union & Branch agree to continue present practice of deployment of labour.
(45). Definitions. –  The following words shall have the meaning set opposite to them :
EMPLOYER : SINGER INDUSTRIES (CEYLON) PLC
UNION : COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WORKERS’ UNION
(CIWU)
BRANCH UNION : THE BRANCH UNION OF THE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
WORKERS’ UNION (CIWU) IN THE ESTABLISHMENT
FEDERATION : THE EMPLOYERS’ FEDERATION OF CEYLON
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT : THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT NO. 43 OF
1950 AS AMENDED
DISPUTE : A DISPUTE OR DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
EMPLOYER AND AN EMPLOYEE OR BETWEEN
THE EMPLOYER AND THE UNION ON ANY
MATTER COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT IN
RELATION TO THEIR EMPLOYMENT UNDER
THE EMPLOYER
WEEK : THE PERIOD BETWEEN MIDNIGHT ON ANY
SATURDAY AND MIDNIGHT ON THE
SUCCEEDING SATURDAY NIGHT
MANAGEMENT : THE CHAIRMAN, THE MANAGING DIRECTOR/CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER, DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE STAFF OF THE COMPANY
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES : ALL EMPLOYEES WHOSE EMPLOYMENT HAS BEEN CONFIRMED
UPON COMPLETION OF THEIR PROBATIONARY PERIOD
PROBATIONERS : PERSONS ENGAGED ON TRIAL AND WHOSE APPOINTMENT
HAVE NOT YET BEEN CONFIRMED.
APPRENTICES : TRAINEES ENGAGED FOR A SPECIFIC PERIOD AND PURPOSE
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE : A DAILY PAID EMPLOYEE RECRUITED FOR A SPECIFIC PERIOD
OR JOB
CASUAL EMPLOYEE : A DAILY PAID EMPLOYEE RECRUITED ON A DAILY CONTRACT
OF EMPLOYMENT AND WHOSE WORK IS OF A CASUAL NATURE
EMPLOYEE OR EMPLOYEES : EMPLOYEE/ EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND
BY THIS AGREEMENT

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
We certify that the contents of Page (One) to Page 27 (Twenty Seven) both numbers inclusive and from Clause 1 (One) to Clause
45 (Fourty five) both numbers inclusive and First Schedule from Page 1 (One) to Page 4 (Four) both numbers inclusive and enumerated herein
are in accordance with what was agreed upon.
In witness hereof parties have hereto set their hands hereunder at Colombo on this 11th day of September 2013.


<!-- page 15 -->

15 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
(01) SERVICE EMPLOYEE Rs. 26,637/ = - Rs. 90/ = x 8 = Rs 29,574/ 50
- Rs. 95/ = x 10
- Rs. 97/ 50 x 13
(02) SEMI SKILLED
Grade I Rs. 26,707/ = - Rs. 100/ = x 31 = Rs. 29,807/ =
Grade II Rs. 26,814/ 50 - Rs. 105/ - x 21 = Rs. 30,739/ 50
- Rs. 107/50 x 16
Employees classified as Semi Skilled Grade I shall be entitled to transfer to Semi Skilled Grade II on completion of four Annual Increments
of Semi Skilled Grade I, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency or disciplinary action on account of established misconduct
after due inquiry
(03) COUNTERMAN
Grade I Rs. 26,707/ = - Rs. 100/ = x 31 = Rs. 29,807/ =
Grade II Rs. 26,814/ 50 - Rs. 105/ = x 21 = Rs. 30,739/ 50
- Rs. 107/ 50 x 16
Counterman classified as Grade I shall be entitled to transfer to Counterman Grade II on completion of four Annual Increments Counterman
Grade I, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency or disciplinary action on account of established misconduct after due inquiry
(04) SKILLED Rs. 26,897/ = - Rs. 110/ = x 12 = Rs. 30,402/ =
- Rs. 115/ = x 19
(05) STOREMAN Rs. 26,897/ = - Rs. 110/ = x 12 = Rs. 30,402/ =
- Rs. 115/ = x 19
(06) CHARGE HAND
Grade I Rs. 27,142/ = - Rs. 125/ = x 21 = Rs. 29,767/ =
Grade II Rs. 27,227/ = - Rs. 130/ = x 30 = Rs. 32,054/ 50
- Rs. 132/ 50 x 7
Will be eligible for Grade I and II Salary Scales. Transfer to Grade II will be automatic on aching the maximum in each Grade I unless as a
matter of punishment for general inefficiency or disciplinary action on account of established misconduct after due inquiry.
(07) QUALITY CONTROL INSPECTORS
Grade I Rs. 27,142/ = - Rs. 125/ = x 21 = Rs. 29,767/ =
Grade II Rs. 27,227/ = - Rs. 130/ = x 30 = Rs. 32,054/ 50
- Rs. 132/ 50 x 7
I. Will be restricted normally to the above mentioned Grade I Scale.
II. Hereinafter, Quality Control Inspector will be in addition to their duties act for Charge Hands as and when necessary, subje ct to the
conditions having been met the Grade II Scale will be open to this category on reaching the Maximum of Grade I, unless as a mat ter of
punishment for general inefficiency or disciplinary action on account of established misconduct after due inquiry.
(08) TOOL ROOM SPECIALISTS
Grade I Rs. 27,142/ = - Rs. 122/ 50 x 21 = Rs. 29,714/ 50
Grade II Rs. 27,227/ = - Rs. 127/ 50 x 30 = Rs. 31,052/ =
Grade III Rs. 27,372/ = - Rs. 130/ = x 28 = Rs. 31,012/ =
Will be eligible for Grade I, II and III Salary Scales, Transfer to Grade II & III will be automatic on reaching the maximum in each Grade
irrespectively, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency or disciplinary action on account of established misconduct after due
inquiry.

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(09) CHIEF COOK Rs. 26,897/ = - Rs. 110/ = x 12 = Rs. 30,402/ =
- Rs. 115/ = x 19
(10) COOK Rs. 26,707/ = - Rs. 100/ = x 12 = Rs. 29,902/ =
- Rs. 105/ = x 19
(11) DRIVER Rs. 26,897/ = - Rs. 110/ = x 12 = Rs. 30,402/ =
- Rs. 115/ = x 19
(12) PURCHASER Rs. 27,227/ = - Rs. 130/ = x 22 = Rs. 30,087/ =
(13) CANTEEN SUPERVISOR
Grade I Rs. 27,142/ = - Rs. 125/ = x 21 = Rs. 29,767/ =
Grade II Rs. 27,227/ = - Rs. 130/ = x 30 = Rs. 32,054/ 50
- Rs. 132/ 50 x 7
Will be eligible for Grade I and II Salaey Scales. Transfer to Grade II will be automatic on reaching the maximum of Grade I unless as a matter
of punishment for general inefficiency or discipilinary action on account of established misconduct after due inquiry.
(14) SENIOR QUALITY CONTROLLER
Grade I Rs. 27,227/ = - Rs. 130/ = x 22 = Rs. 30,087/ =
Grade II Rs. 27,372/ = - Rs. 132/ 50 x 30 = Rs. 31,347/ =
I. Will be restricted normally to the above mentioned Grade I Scale.
II. Hereinafter, Senior quality Control Inspectors will be in addition to thier duties act for Charge Hands as and when necessar y,
subject to this conditions having been met the Grade II Scale will be open category on reaching the Maximum of Grade I, unless
as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency or discipilinary action on account of established misconduct after due inquiry.
(15) FOREMAN AND LEADING HAND
Rs. 28,017/ = - Rs. 160/ = x 28 = Rs. 32,497/ =
 05 - 818
My No. : CI / 1352.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between Ravi Industries Limited, 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one part and the
United Tea, Rubber And Local Produce Workers’ Union, No. 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 20th day of
September 2013 is hereby published in terms of section 06 of Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956).
           V. B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
             Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
11th April, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 24 of 2013
THIS COLLECTIVE Agreement made this Twentieth day of September Two Thousand and Thirteen to take  effect from the First day of June
Two Thousand and Thirteen pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between Ravi Industries Limited, having its registered office  at No.
400,Deans Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as  “the Employer”) of the One Part and The United Tea Rubber And Local Produce
Workers’ Union a registered Trade Union having its office at No. 513 - 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as “The
Union”) of the Second Part

<!-- page 17 -->

17 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
WITNESSETH and it is herevy agreed between the parties as follows :
Title : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Ravi Industries Limited Manual Workers’ Collective Agreement of 2013.
PART  I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS
INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Persons  Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind by the Employer, the Union and all  members of the Union
who are employed  by the Employer in a Manual or Labouring capacity on monthly contracts of employment and for whom provision has been
made in the wage scales set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of June, Two Thousand and Thirteen
and shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving  notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act in writing to
the other subject to the following provisos:-
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the Thirty First day of May Two Thousand and
Sixteen and no notice given before that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lankan Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be
at liberty to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–  During the continuance in force of this agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall  come into being at any time after the date hereof or during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a Period of probation of not more than six (6) months, Provided
however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee , the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the employer shall indicate to the employee in
writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended during the Period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall
have the right to terminate the services of the employee without notice. If the employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service
during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer, the Employee shall  be
deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation or extended probation,
as the case may be, ended.
5. Attendance.- (1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every day
(other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout the normal
working hours.
(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job work is temporarily not available for an employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within his capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to appropriate
Disciplinary action.
6. Hours of work.-The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be nine and one half (9 1/2) hours inclusive of a half
(1/ 2) hour interval for a meal and other  intervals existing at the date of  this Agreement.
The hours of work on a shift shall be a period of eight (8) hours on a normal working day and a period of five (5) hours on a short
working day.
7. Forfeiture of Wages.-Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer, an employee fails to hold himself available
for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his wages for
the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
8. Overtime.- (1) Depending on the order situation and the Company requirements, overtime work may be available. The Employees
agree to perform overtive work if requested by the employer.
(2) Overtime work ( that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and half
(1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16(a) hereof.
9. Weekly Holiday and Saturdays.- (1) In respect of each week every employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that
week as the weekly holiday. Provided, however, that if an employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty-eight (28) hours, exclusive
of any period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage in
respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16 (b) hereof.
(2) In computing the period of twenty-eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include.-
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to Employee as annual holiday.
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 11 hereof;
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
(3) The Employer may employ any employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee, as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided, however, that if any employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and in such
event that employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that employee within six (6) days of that
weekly holiday, provided further that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly holidays in any one calendar month the
Employer may with the consent of the employee.-
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that employee shall
not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid pay him one day’s wage
computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday,  or
(b) In case that an employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in respect
of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage as aforesaid
employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) that in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the employee shall be paid as remuneration:
(a) One and one-half (1 1/2 ) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(a) hereof
for the  number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16(a) hereof for each subsequent
hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer for
periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a non-working day only for Employees for whom it was a non-working  day as at present. In their case
where an Employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday in terms of this clause he shall forfeit three fifth of his pay for
Saturday if he has worked only 2 days in the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has worked only one day in the week
and shall receive no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any day in the week. For the purpose of this sub-clause days
worked will be reckoned in terms of sub-clause 2 above.
10. Annual Holidays.- Annual holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Board in the case of Employees in the Brush Manufacturing Trade the annual holidays shall be in terms of the decision of the Wages Board for
the Coir Matters and Bristle Fibre Export Trade.
11. Public Holidays.- (1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Board. In the case of Employees in the Brush Manufacturing Trade the Public holidays shall  be in terms of the decision of the Wages Board
for the Coir Mattress and Bristle Fibre Export Trade. Provided however,  that an employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance
with the decisions of the aforesaid Wages Board.

<!-- page 19 -->

19 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(2) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day
either in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be
granted to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause 9 hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the number
of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding the saturday shall be five and half (5 1/2)
hours and no interval for a meal shall be granted.
12. Casual leave.- (1) In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment that
employee shall be entitled to take  on account of private business or other reasonable cause, including ill-health if that Employee’s entitlement
to sick leave has been fully utilised, leave (hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of periods
not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however
that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any time save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided further that any
employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided
further that in respect of any employee’s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to casual leave for that
year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to
the employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him
casual leave.
13. Sick leave.- In any year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty-one (21) days. Provided that:
(a) his illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer), and
(b) the employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause  4 hereof. Provided, however, that an employee who has
been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be entitled
to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and sick leave not exceeding five
(5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
14. Monthly consolidated wages in Lieu of CCPI Consolidation. - (1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 15 hereof and the
Employer’s right to make deductions from wages in terms of the practices prevailing at the date of this Agreement and also subject to the
existing practices in relation to the performance by Employees of work in other grades (whether in higher or lower grades), as from the First
day of June Two Thousand and Thirteen each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a
monthly consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule 1 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedule 1 hereto include the Allowances which were consolidated in terms of Clause
14 of the Collective AgreementNo.  20 of 1982.
(3)This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this agreement will be revised as follows :
A sum of Rs. 1,000/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Thirteen.
A sum of Rs. 1,000/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Fourteen.
A sum of Rs. 1,000/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Fifteen.
(5) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka -
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement, legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law.

<!-- page 20 -->

20 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(b) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether or
not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
(6) (a) As a matter of goodwill it is agreed that an employee, who is in employment at the date hereof shall receive an ex-gratia
payment of a sum representing the amount added to the wage of each individual employee by virtue of Clause 15 (a) (i) hereof
multiplied x 3.
(b) This lump sum payment by way of notional arrears shall not constitute a part of an employee’s earnings for any purpose
whatsoever and shall not attract consequential payments such as overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund, etc.
14A. Incentive payments.– The Incentive Scheme applicable to the relevant employees with effect from First day of October
Two Thowsand and Thirteen is set out  in Schedule 2.
15. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.– (a) For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee
shall receive with effect from the First day of September Two Thousand and Thirteen on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out
in the Schedule 1 hereto the following provisions subject to the provisions of clause 14 above shall apply:
(i) All Employee shall be given an increase in wage of a sum equivalent to fiifteen (15) per cent of their wages as at
Thirty First day of August  Two Thousand and Thirteen.
(ii) Each employee shall thereafter be placed at the corresponding point  the wage scale in Schedule 1 without change in
grade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the same grade.
(b) Provided that the Company at least achieves Rupees Fifteen Million as Profit Before Tax for the financial year 2013/ 2014
and also at least achieves Rupees Thirty Million as Profit Before Tax  for the financial year 2014/ 2015, all Employees in
employment as at First day of September Two Thousand and Thirteen and are in employment as at the Thirty First day
of August Two Thousand and Fifteen, shall be given an increase in wage of a sum equivalent to five (5) per cent of their
wages as at Thirty First day of August Two Thousand and Fifteen, with effect from first day of September  Two Thousand
and Fifteen.
16. Wages for Periods Less Than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
17. Annual Lump sum payment in lieu of NRCOLG .–   (1) A lump sum payment based on revenue growth would be made in April
each year on the following basis.
FOB Turnover Growth (FOB Turnover for the year less FOB Turnover for the previous year/ FOB Turnover for the
previous year) % x Average Basic Salary that prevailed at the beginning of the year (April) x 12 subject to a minimum as set
out below and maximum payment of Rs 14, 000 per year and a maximum payment equivalent to 2 months average basic
salary that prevailed at the  beginning of the year. Prorated deductions will be made from employees who have registered no
pay during the year.
The minimum payment to an Employee shall be a sum of -
(a) Rs 18,000/- in April 2014
(b) Rs 19,000/- in April 2015
(c) Rs 20,000/- in April 2016
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on this lump sum payment.
18. Provident Fund .– (1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the
Employees’ Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.

<!-- page 21 -->

21 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employee’s Trust Fund Act No. 46 of 1980 where the Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee’s
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to Employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of
1983.
20. Bonus.–   (1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment
in the past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of
his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing
of the Agreement No. 20 of 1982. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than the sum of money
paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of the Agreement No. 20 of 1982 the Union  may
canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may
pursue this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation,
the same shall be referred to a committee of three (3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus Committee’) which shall be constituted in
accordance with the provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour
will constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10)
years’ post qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to the Federa-
tion. Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee
so constituted a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in
settling the dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of
the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and
the Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is
divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on
the parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General’s decision shall be communicated in writing to the Federation and
the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of
Agreement No. 20 of 1982.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of Agreement No. 20 of 1982 shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by
the Union and / or its members nor shall the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
21. Annual Increments.– (1) The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in Schedule I hereto
shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary
action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –

<!-- page 22 -->

22 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) Susupended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
occur to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the
circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
(2) With effect from 1st September the incremental rates in Schedule 1 will be revised as follows :
Grade A               Rs. 100/-
Grade B        Rs. 75/-
Grade C               Rs. 60/-
22. Productivity Improvement and Elimination of Waste.– The employees agree to co-operate with the Employer to enchance
productivity levels, comply with health and safety procedures and practices, various projects implemented by management to mini mize
waste in all forms in the mutual interest of preserving the future of the Company. The employees will cooperate with the management to
strive to exceed the minimum norms fixed for payment of incentives and to ensure optimum utilization of machine capacity.
23. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
  24. Suspension.–  1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer–
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an
inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 25 hereof.
25. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then:
1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 24 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or  charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice  and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
3. If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Ten (10)  working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.

<!-- page 23 -->

23 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30)  working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that; -
(a) The Employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 24(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension
irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to
the charges in the show cause notice;
(b) The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the  Police or  other
authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or  other
authorities or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had
been previously referred to the Police or  other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the Employee may remain suspended
without pay.
7. If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from  the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension
in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes and order under paragraphs ( a) to (c) of the
preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
8. In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of  sub-clause 6  within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the  Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of  ninety (90) days be extended for such
further time  as may be agreed.
9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes  to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the
Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then
apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after the
receipt of the Employee’s  explanation shall not be material or relevant.
26. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired  may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
27. Termination of Services:  (1)  Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for
work usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 4 hereof or unless otherwise
expressly stipulated) be deemed  and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from
month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to  be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to the
other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an  Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.

<!-- page 24 -->

24 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
28. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members who is employed in
any work - place of the Employer bound by this agrement.  In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters
affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the following provisions shall apply.
(1) When the Union is representative of not less than forty per cents (40%) of the Employees whose membership subscription
is not in arrears, the Employer of such Employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and
negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty per cents (40%)
of such Employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with
the Union competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such
Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one work - place and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one work - place but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
29. Disputes Procedure.–  (1) In the first instance, the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer of
such members and give the Employer at least ten (10) working days’ time within which to reply. If, in the Union’s opinion, the Employer’s
reply is unsatisfactory, the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) When the Union concludes that negotiations with the Employer  have been abortive, it shall ask the Department of Labour to
intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conference and /or discussions with a view
to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until the
Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 29 hereof, all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties hereto
shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
30. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.– Any anomaly arising from the implemen-
tation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled by negotiation,
it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
31. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in
force of this Agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any dispute
between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such dispute has
been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body, (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or
vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and/ or its members or is grossly unfair
or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and / or its members.  Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days’ notice in writing
shall be given by the Union to the Employer the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of any
intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent/ an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by
whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities
of the Union and/ or its member is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and/ or its members.
32. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–  (1)  The Union and Employees jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary,  alter or add to all or any of the terms and
conditions of employment presently  applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in terms
of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, other than
by mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the Union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any
of the benefits presently enjoyed by the Employees other than by mutual Agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses (1) or (2) may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.

<!-- page 25 -->

25 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and Federation the Union shall commit a breach of any of
the terms of this  Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore
such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide:
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 25 is a member of the union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice-
(a) The Employeer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as An Observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires ‘an Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.– The following Provisions shall apply to  Meetings of the Union:-
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the  Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, and application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the employer shall be entitled to impose inter alia, one or more the under noted
conditions
(i) That no person other than an Employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, Office Bearers of the Parent Union may with the
previous approval of the employer, attend;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union  shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of the
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage  is caused in the course of or the,in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other person at the Employer’s  premises and the Union shall
indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–   (1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave:– Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse
to grant permission if, in his discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for
not less than two (2) Office Bearers of the Union -
(a) To be present at conferences held under  the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer. or
(b) To attend  inquiries  before  Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals.

<!-- page 26 -->

26 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
Without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an employee to attend a trade union course or
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to Annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
5. Check - off.–
(1) The facility of check-off shall be granted subject to Clause 1 of  Part II hereof only so long as the Union represents no le ss
than forty  (40) precent of the employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall, on the written request of an Employee, deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be  payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the  conditions hereinafter set
forth.
(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No.1 referred to as an “ Authorisation”.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to  check - off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a “Revocation”.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorisation shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deductions under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however-
(a) That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub - clauses (5) or (6).
(b) That, at his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in
which the deduction from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorisation by a cheque payable to the Treasures thereof and crossed “Account Payee”.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to the
Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasure on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the Union’s
dues actually deducted.
FORM No. I
Name of Employer : RAVI INDUSTRIES LIMITED
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the RAVI INDUSTRIES LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2013 and I desire to avail
myself of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the UNITED TEA RUBBER
& LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ………… (Rs.) in respect of my
current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made
from my wages due immediately following the date hereof.

<!-- page 27 -->

27 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
………………… ………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
………………………… ……………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM No. 2
Name of Employer : RAVI INDUSTRIES LIMITED
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour of UNITED
TEA RUBBER & LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date
hereof.
………………… ………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
………………………… ……………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and  II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite
to them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptions
payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.

<!-- page 28 -->

28 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement
(For convenience sometimes
referred to as ‘he’ or its
grammatical variations)
Employer Ravi Industries Limited
Federation Employer’s Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is em-
ployed in.
Union United Tea Rubber & local produce Workers’ Union
Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule
hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Year  A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine .
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 29 -->

29 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 30 -->

30 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 31 -->

31 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 32 -->

32 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 33 -->

33 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.-
1. The incentive scheme applicable to Brush Filling Machine Operators (BFMO) will commence at 70% efficiency level of each machine
capacity (based on the cycle time of the respective machine). The amounts payable at 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 91% and 101% are set out
in the attachment. The output that has to be achieved in order to receive incentive payments on short working days are also set out in the
attachment.
2. No incentive payments will be made to BFMO for efficiency levels below 70%.
3. Only marketable quality output with zero defects will be considered for calculations of incentives as described in (1) and (2 ) above.
Damaged or items that need to be re-worked will not be considered for same.
The incentive payable for a shift to a BFMO would be calculated by multiplying the marketable quality brushes * rate (at each efficiency
level).
4. Machine breakdown time will be considered as operating time for the purpose of calculating incentives.
5. In the event a machine could not be operated for the entire eight hour shift due to non-availability of brush blocks or filling material, the
incentive payable would be calculated as follows :
(a) The machine should have been operated for a minimum of five hours during the shift.
(b) The output obtained during the hours that the machine was operated would be pro-rated to compute the incentive.
6. The incentive scheme applicable to Mechanics and Electricians is as follows :
They would be entitled to a maximum of 80% of the average incentive earned by BFMO during the respective month subject to the
following criteria :
i. If Engineering availability index is below 80% No Incentive
ii. If Engineering availability index is between 80% and 84.99% 50% of average incentive earne by BFMO will be paid to Skilled
employees.
75% of the amount payable to Skilled employees would be re-
ceived by semi skilled employees.
and
60% of the amount payable to Skilled employees would be re-
ceived by un skilled employees.
iii. If Engineering availability index is between 85% and 89.99% 60% of average incentive earned by BFMO would  be received by
Skilled employees.
75% of the amount payable to Skilled employees would be re-
ceived by semi skilled employees.
and
60% of the amount payable to Skilled employees would be re-
ceived by Unskilled employees.
iv. If Engineering availability index is above 90% 80% of average incentive earned by BFMO would  be received by
Skilled employees.
75% of the amount payable to Skilled employees would be re-
ceived by semi skilled employees.
60% of the amount payable to Skilled employees would be re-
ceived by Unskilled employees.

<!-- page 34 -->

34 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
7. Incentive Scheme Applicable to General Workers in Supporting Divisions will be as follows :
Up to 2.5 day approved leave during the month 25% of the average incentive earned by the Brush Filling Machine
Operators
3 days approved leave during the month 20% of the average incentive earned by the Brush Filling Machine
Operators
3.5 day approved leave during the month 15% of the average incentive earned by the Brush Filling Machine
Operators
4 days or more approved leave No Incentive
Any unauthorized absence during a month No Incentive

<!-- page 35 -->

35 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 36 -->

36 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 37 -->

37 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 38 -->

38 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
05 - 819

<!-- page 39 -->

39 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
My No. : CI / 1816.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Limited, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one part
and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Suboothipura, Battaramulla  of the other part on 1st day of  November
2012 is hereby published in terms of section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956).
           V. B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
             Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
11th April, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 32 of 2012
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made this First day of November Two Thousand and Twelve to take  effect from the First day of April
Two Thousand and Twelve to pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Limited, having its registered
office at No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as  “the Employer”) of the One Part and The Inter Company Employees’
Union a registered Trade Union having its office at No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri Suboothipura, Battaramulla (hereinafter referred to as “The
Union”) of the Second Part
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows :
Title : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Limited, Kottawa Factory Manual
Workers’ Collective Agreement of 2012.
PART  I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Persons  Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and all  members of the Union
who are employed  and are working at the Factory at 168/D, Brahmanagama, Kottawa of the Employer in a Manual or labouring capacity on
monthly contracts of employment as at the date of signing this Agreement and for whom provision has been made in the wage scales set out
in Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement. For employees recruited to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June Two Thousand
and Eight and for new employees recruited directly under the Employer, provision has been made in the Wage Scales set out in Schedule 3 of
this Agreement and Clauses 15 and 19 shall not apply to such employees.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective from the First day of April, Two Thousand and Twelve  and
shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving  notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act in writing to the
other subject to the following provisos:-
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the First day of November Two Thousand and
Fourteen and no notice given before that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lankan Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be
at liberty to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–  During the continuance in force of this agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall  come into being at any time after the date hereof or during the continuance in force of this Agreement.

<!-- page 40 -->

40 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
4. New Employees.– The company will be entitled to recruit employees to the permanent cadre after the date hereof and place them on
a suitable point in the Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3, if required. Such new employees will  not be covered by clauses 15 and 19 of this
Agreement. The Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3 hereto includes the Statutory Allowances as at the date of this Agreement.
5. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee, the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the Employee in
writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation and the employer
shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice.
6. Attendance.– 1. Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on
everyday (other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
2. If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in  his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
7. Hours of Work.– The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be nine and one half (9 1/ 2) hours inclusive of
a half (1/ 2) hour interval for a lunch and two fifteen minutes intervals for tea. (Please note that the decision to work a five day week was
arrived at consequent to the Fuel Conservation Law of 1973 and the request made by the employees to continue with the same work
arrangements after the repeal of the Law. Therefore, currently the employees enjoy the benefit of an additional holiday on the short working
day which is - presently on Saturday).
8. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer and Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
9. Overtime.– 1. If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the
Employer. Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
2. Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and half (11/2) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 18(a) hereof.
10. Weekly Holiday.- (1) In respect of each week every employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that week as the
weekly holiday. Provided, however, that if an employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty-eight (28) hours, exclusive of any period
of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of the
weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 (b) hereof.
(2) In computing the period of twenty-eight (28) hours referred to in Sub-Clause (1) the Employer shall include.–
(a) every holiday allowed by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday ;
(b) every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 12 hereof; and
(c) every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
(3) The Employer may employ any employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee, as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided, however, that if any employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and in such
event that employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of Clause 18(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that employee within six (6) days of that
weekly holiday, provided further that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly holidays in any one calendar month the
Employer may with the consent of the employee.–

<!-- page 41 -->

41 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that employee shall
not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid pay him one day’s wage
computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday,
OR
(b) In case that an employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in respect
of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage as aforesaid
employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) That in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the employee shall be paid as remuneration:
(a) One and one-half (1 1/2 ) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 18(a) hereof
for the  number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18(a) hereof for each subsequent
hour of work.
The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the
Employer for periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a non-working day and where an Employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday in terms of this clause
he shall forfeit three fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has worked only 2 days in the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday
if he has worked only one day in the week and shall receive no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any day in the
week. For the purpose of this sub-clause days worked will be reckoned in terms of sub-clause 2 above.
11. Annual Holidays.- An employee will be entitled to a maximum of fourteen (14) days earned annual leave in accordance with the
practice of the Company.
12. Public Holidays.- (1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the Practice of the Company. Provided
however,  that an employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance with the practice of the Company.
(2) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either
in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be granted
to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause 10 hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the number
of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding the such public holidays shall be four and
one half (4 1/2) hours and no interval for a meal shall be granted.
13. Casual leave.- (1) In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment
that employee shall be entitled to take  on account of private business or other reasonable cause, including ill-health if that  Employee’s
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilised, leave (hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate
of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration. Provided
however that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any one time save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided
further that any employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual
holidays. Provided further that in respect of any employee’s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to
casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state that reason for the
application. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to
the employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him
casual leave.
14. Sick leave.-
(1) In any year an employee Covered by the Wage Scales set out in Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement shall be entitled to sick leave
not exceeding twenty-one (21) days. Provided that:

<!-- page 42 -->

42 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer), and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause  5 hereof. Provided, however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and sick leave not
exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
2) In any year an employee recruited to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June Two Thousand and Eight and for
new employees recruited directly under the Employer Covered by the Wage Scales set out in Schedule 3 of this Agreement shall be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding Seven (7) days. Provided that:
(a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer), and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause  5 hereof. Provided, however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding five (05) days if he is confirmed after six (6)  months’ probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding three (03) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
15. Monthly Consolidated Wages in lieu of CCPI consolidation .– (1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 hereof, Employee
shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of
consolidated wages set out in the Schedules 1 and 2 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set  out in  Schedules 1 and 2 hereto include the Statutory Allowances as at the date of this
Agreement.
(3) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this agreement and for whom provision has been made
in the wage scales set out in schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement will be revised as follows:
(a) A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each employee with effect from the First day of
September Two Thousand and Twelve.
(b) A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
September Two Thousand and Thirteen
(c) A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
November Two Thousand and Fourteen.
(4) Employees recruited to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June Two Thousand and Eight and for new
employees recruited directly under the Employer, and for whom provision has been made in the Wage Scale set out in
Schedule 3 hereto, shall not be covered by the provisions of this Clause and therefore would not be entitled to the
aforementioned payments.
16. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.–  If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government
of Sri Lanka –
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging
the Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law
and in terms of such written law;
(b) Recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of
whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
17. Productivity Bonus Scheme.– Effective from the First day of April Two thousand and Twelve the Employer will pay a
Productivity bonus in accordance with the Productivity Bonus Schemes set out in Schedules 4 and 5 of this Agreement. The norms
mentioned in Schedule 4 will be the level of production to be achieved by the employees on a daily basis during normal working hours.

<!-- page 43 -->

43 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
18. Wages for Periods Less than one Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
19. Annual lump sum payment in lieu of Non Recurring Cost of Living Gatuity .-  (1) A lump sum payment on an ex -gratia
basis would be made to the employees for whom provision has been made in the Wage Scales set out in Schedules 1 and 2 on the following
basis :
(a) A sum of Rs. 14,000/- payable in September 2012 for the period 01st September 2011 to 31st August 2012.
(b) A sum of Rs. 14,000/- payable in September 2013 for the period 01st September 2012 to 31st August 2013.
(c) A sum of Rs. 14,000/- payable in September 2014 for the period 01st September 2013 to 31st August 2014.
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on these ex-gratia payments.
(3) Employees recruited to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June 2008 and new employees recruited
directly under the Employer and for whom provision  has been made in the Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3 hereto, shall not
be covered by the provisions of this Clause and therefore would not be entitled to the aforementioned payments.
20. Provident Fund.- The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
21. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act, No. 12
of 1983.
22. Bonus.– (1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment
in the past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of
his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus by Haychem (pvt) Ltd. for the year
immediately preceding the signing of the Agreement. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than
the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus by Haychem (Pvt) Ltd for the year immediately preceding the signing of  this
Agreement the Union may canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in
the matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bon us is not
settled with the Federation, the same shall be referred to a committee of three (3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus Committee’)
which shall be constituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour
will constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10)
years’ post qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to the Federa-
tion. Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee
so constituted a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in
settling the dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of
the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and
the Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is
divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on
the parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General’s decision shall be communicated in writing to the Federation and
the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.

<!-- page 44 -->

44 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of
Agreement by Haychem (Pvt) Ltd.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) the payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus by Haychem (Pvt) Ltd to employees in the year
immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called
in question by the Union and / or its members nor shall the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject
of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
23. Annual Increments.– 1. The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in the  Schedules 1
2 and 3 shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunct uality or
disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –
(a) deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) susupended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
occur to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the
circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
2. The incremental rates as stipulated in respect of the consolidated scales of wages set out in Schedule 1, 2 and 3 hereof and/ or
may be revised thereafter in terms of Clause 15 (3) shall be as set out hereunder :
Schedule 1
Grade III 10 x Rs. 100/-
10 x Rs. 105/-
129 x Rs. 115/-
Grade II 149 x Rs. 80/-
Grade I 149 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 1
Skilled 99 x Rs. 125/-
Semi - Skilled 99 x Rs. 105/-
UnSkilled   99 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 1
Class B 149 x Rs. 105/-
Class G   149 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 2
Grade 3 10 x Rs. 100/-
10 x Rs. 105/-
79 x Rs. 115/-

<!-- page 45 -->

45 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
Grade 2 99 x Rs. 80/-
Grade 1 99 x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 3
Grade 3 10 x Rs. 100/-
10 x Rs. 105/-
79 x Rs. 115/-
Grade 2 99 x Rs. 80/-
Grade 1 99 x Rs. 65/-
3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
24. Warnings.– If in the opinion of  the Employer an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the employee by a
letter, duplicate of which shall  be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
25. Suspension.– 1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer–
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry.
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)  (a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an
inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 26 hereof.
26. Disciplinary Action. - Where the Employer proposes to proceed against any employee, then -
1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 25 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or  charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than Five (5) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. within Five (5) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice  and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
3. If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14)  working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, If any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30)  working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that-

<!-- page 46 -->

46 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 25(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespec-
tive of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the
charges in the show cause notice;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s suspen-
sion and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to Police or  other authorities or if in view
of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred
to the Police or  other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be
awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
7. If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from  the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension
in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes and order under paragraphs ( a) to (c) of the
preceding  sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
8. In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of  sub-clause 6  within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the  Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of  ninety (90) days be extended for such
further time  as may be agreed.
9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes  to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the
Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then
apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within fourteen (14) working days after the
receipt of the Employee’s  explanation shall not be material or relevant.
10. The Employer may, as an alternative to more serious disciplinary action, recover from an employee the cost of damage to
or loss of the Employer’s goods or property, or a percentage thereof, caused through the negligence of the employee as
determined at a domestic inquiry or on the admission of the Employee.
27. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired  may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
28. Termination of Services:  (1)  Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for
work usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 5 hereof or unless otherwise
expressly stipulated) be deemed  and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from
month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to  be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to the
other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an  Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
29. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members bound by this
agreement who is employed in any work - place of the Employer in bound by this agrement regard to issues of general application or to the
effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the
following provisions shall apply.

<!-- page 47 -->

47 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(1) When the Union is represenative of not less than forty per cent (40%) of the Employees whose membership subscription is
not in arrears, the Employer of such Employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and
negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty per cent (40%) of
such Employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with all
the Unions competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such
Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one work - place and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one work - place but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer the Union is, competent to make
general claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a referundum which shall be held by the Department
of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the Employer and the Union and the parties hereto.
30. Disputes Procedure.–  (1) In the first instance, the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer of
such members and give the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If, in the Union’s opinion, the Employer’s reply
is unsatisfactory, the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) When the Union concludes that negotiations with the Employer and the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon have been abortive,
it shall ask the Department of Labour to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange
conference and /or discussions with a view to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of
Labour shall then proceed until the Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 32 hereof, all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties hereto
shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
31. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.– Any anomaly arising from the implemen-
tation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled by negotiation,
it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
32. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in
force of this Agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any dispute
between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such dispute has
been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body, (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or
vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and / or its members or is grossly unfair
or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and / or its members.  Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days notice in writing shall
be given by the Union to the Employer the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of any
intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent / an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling  body (by
whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities
of the Union and / or its members is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and / or its members.
33. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–  (1)  The Union and the Employees jointly and severally
agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary,  alter or add to all or any of the terms
and conditions of employment presently  applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in
terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, other
than by mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the Union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any
of the benefits presently enjoyed by the Employees other than by mutual Agreement.

<!-- page 48 -->

48 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses (1) or (2) may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING  THE  FACILITIES  AND  CONCESSIONS  GRANTED  BY  THE  EMPLOYER  TO  THE  UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the Union shall commit a breach of any
of the terms of this Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the Employer in the succeeding clasuses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore
such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 26 is a member of the union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice -
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as an observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.– The following Provisions shall apply to  Meetings of the Union:-
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the  Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, and application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions:
(i) That no person other than an Employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, office bearers of the Parent Union may, with the
previous approval of the employer, attend;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union  shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its office bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of the
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s  premises and the Union
shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–  (1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave: -
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if, in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two office bearers of
the Union -
(a) To be present at conferences held under  the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.

<!-- page 49 -->

49 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
or
(b) To attend  inquiries  before  Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss of wages for such absence.
2. The Employer shall provide the President and the Secretary one day’s duty leave per month to attent meetings at the Union
Headquarters in connection with Union activities if required to do so by the Union. The employer shall be informed of such
meetings at least 48 hours before the meeting and written approval should be obtained from the management.
3. The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays,
which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
4. The Employer shall grant a day’s duty leave for the branch committee not exceeding fourteen (14) employees to attend the
Annual convention of the Parent Union. However, the Employer shall be informed of such meetings at least 48 hours before
the meeting and written approval should be obtained from the management.
(5) Check-off.- (1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Union
represents not less than forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter
setforth.
(3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 referred to as an ‘Authorization’.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitiled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a ‘Revocation’.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter untill the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deductions under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however –
(a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub-clause 5 or 6;
(b) that at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in which
the deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by Law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concernd by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to
the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
Union’s dues actually deducted.

<!-- page 50 -->

50 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
FORM NO. 1
Name of Employer :  HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Authorization
As I am an Employee working at the factory at 168D, Brahmanagama, Kottawa, of the Employer covered and bound by the HAYLEYS
AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2012 and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check-off
contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UNION, please deduct
from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ……………… (Rs.        ) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Unio n
and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages due immediately following the date
hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer:  HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Revocation
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UNION, with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) (Checkroll Number)
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 51 -->

51 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
PART III
CONTAINING  DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to
them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory at 168/D, Brahmanagama, Kottawa
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptions
payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
(For convenience sometimes referred to
as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Employer HA YLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Federation Employers’ Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Indusrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which and employee would normally receive and increment
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is employed in
Union Inter Company Employees’ Union
 Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of wages set out in Schedule 1, 2 and 3
hereto.
    Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
    Year  A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine .
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 52 -->

52 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 53 -->

53 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 54 -->

54 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 55 -->

55 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 56 -->

56 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 57 -->

57 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 58 -->

58 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 59 -->

59 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 60 -->

60 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 61 -->

61 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 62 -->

62 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 63 -->

63 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 64 -->

64 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 65 -->

65 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 66 -->

66 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 67 -->

67 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 68 -->

68 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 69 -->

69 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 70 -->

70 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 71 -->

71 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
05- 820

<!-- page 72 -->

72 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
My No. : CI / 1674.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Dipped Products PLC, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one part and the Inte r
Company Employees Union, No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Suboothipura, Battaramulla  of the other part on 24th day of  December 2013 is
hereby published in terms of section 06 of Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition
1956).
           V. B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
             Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
11th April, 2014.
Collective Agreement No. 02 of 2014
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made this Twenty Fourth day of December Two Thousand and thirteen to take  effect from the First day
of September Two Thousand and Thirteen  pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between Dipped Products PLC, having its registered office
at No. 400,Deans Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as  “the Employer”) of the One Part and The Inter Company Employee’s Union
a registered Trade Union having its office at No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Suboothipura, Battaramulla (hereinafter referred to as “The Union”)
of the Second Part
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows :
Title : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Dipped Products PLC Manual Manual Worker’s Collective Agreement
of 2013.
PART  I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED
THEREWITH
1. Persons  Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind by the Employer, the Union and the  members of the Union
who are employed  by the Employer in a Manual or labouring capacity on monthly contracts of employment  and for whom provision has been
made in the wage scales set out in schedules 1(a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration. – This Agreement shall be effective from the First day of September, Two Thousand and
Thirteen  and shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving  notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act in
writing to the other subject to the following provisos:-
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the 31st day of August Two Thousand and
Sixteen and no notice given before that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lankan Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be
at liberty to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–  During the continuance in force of this agreement the terms and conditions
of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall  come into being at any time after the date hereof or during the continuance in force of this Agreement.

<!-- page 73 -->

73 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
4. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months,
provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee, the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the Employee in
writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation and the employer
shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory
service during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer the Employee shall
be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation or extended
probation as the case may be, ended.
5. Attendance.– 1. Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on
everyday (other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
2. If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in  his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
6. Hours of Work.– The hours of work shall be a period of eight (8) hours on a normal working day and a period of five (5) hours
on a short working day exclusive of intervals whether on shift or otherwise.
7. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer and Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
8. Overtime.– 1.If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the
Employer. Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
2. Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and half (11/2) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 17(a) hereof.
9. Weekly Holidays and Short Working Day.-
1. In respect of each week, every employee shall be allowed a holiday on a particular day of the week which shall be granted as
his weekly holiday and such day may be subject to change at intervals of not less three (3) months in accordance with a roster.
2. In the case of each employee a particular day of the week either preceding or succeeding his weekly holiday referred to in
clause 9(1) above shall be granted as his short working day.
Provided however, that if any employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours exclusive of any period
of overtime during that week he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wage in respect
of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 17  hereof.
3. In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in subclause (2) the Employer shall include-
(a) Every holiday or leave allowed by the Employer of the employee as Annual Holiday;
(b) Every Public Holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 11 hereof ;
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer
4. The Employer may employ any employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions :—
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee as a Holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in Sub clause (1) then and in
such event that employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in accordance

<!-- page 74 -->

74 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
with the provisions of Clause 17 hereof  in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that employee within the six
(06) days of  that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (02) such weekly holidays in any
calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the employee :—
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within the six (06) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that employee
shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct  one day’s wage  as aforesaid pay him one
day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 17 hereof, in lieu of such alternate holiday ; or
(b) In case that employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within the six (06) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid, in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit, and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage
as aforesaid and employ that employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) That in respect of work done on such weekly holiday an employee shall be paid as remuneration :
(a) One and half (1 1/ 2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 17 hereof
for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a  meal) ; and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 17 hereof for each subsequent hour
of work.
10. Annual Holidays . – Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Boards.
11. Public Holidays . – Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Boards. Provided however, that an Employee may be employed on a Public holiday in accordance with the decisions of the aforesaid Wages
Boards.
12. Casual Leave . –
(1) In respect of each year of employment, during which any employee has been continuously in employment that Employee shall
be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health, if that employee’s entitlement
to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the period or an
aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (07) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be liable to pay
such remuneration provided, however, that not more than two (02) days’ Casual Leave shall be taken at any time save and
except upon the ground of ill health. Provided further that any employee shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave immediately
preceding or immediately following any period of Annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any employee’s first
year of employment, including any period of probation he Shall be entitled to Casual Leave for that year computed on the basis
of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
(2) Casual Leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state  the reasons for the
application. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant and application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to the
employee as soon as possible after the application is made, and in such case the employee may be required to state the reason
for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him Casual
Leave.
13. Sick Leave. – In any year, an Employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that –
(a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate (unless waived by his employer), issued by a registered medical practitioner
approved by the Employer (other than in cases of medical certificates issued by State owned institutions) and the employer
shall also be entitled to require an employee to submit prescriptions of drugs prescribed and invoices in support of the
purchase of drugs relating to the illness in respect of which the medical certificate is issued.
(b) The Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 4 hereof. Provided however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months, probation.

<!-- page 75 -->

75 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
14. Monthly Consolidated Wages .– (1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 15 hereof, as from the First day of September Two
Thousand and Thirteen  each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a month ly
consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the First Schedule hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set  out in  First Schedule hereto include the allowances which were consolidated in terms
of clause 14  of the Collective Agreement No. 18 of 1982.
(3) This Agreement  shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) If during the continuance in force of this agreement the Government of Sri Lanka :
(a) Prescribes increase in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this agreement legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in Wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law.
(b) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of  whether
or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this agreement.
15. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.– For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall
receive with effect from the First day of September Two Thousand and Thirteen on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the
First Schedule hereto the following provisions subject to the provisions of clause 14 above shall apply.
(a) ( i) An employee who is in employment as at the date of the signing of this Agreement shall have his wage revised with
effect from the First day of September Two Thousand and Thirteen by the addition of Rupees Two Thousand One
Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 2,150/-) to the wage drawn by him on the Thirty First day of August Two Thousand and
Thirteen.
(ii) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the wage scale set out in the First Schedule.
(b) ( i) An employee who is employment as at the First day of September Two Thousand and Fourteen shall have his wage
revised with effect from the First day of September Two thousand and Fourteen by the addition of Rupees Two
Thousand Two Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 2, 250) to the wage drawn by him on the Thirty First day of August Two
Thousand and Fourteen.
(ii) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the wage scale set out in the First Schedule.
(c) ( i) An employee who is employment as at the First day of September Two Thousand and Fifteen shall have his wage
revised with effect from the First day of September Two Thousand and Fifteen by the addition of Rupees Two
Thousand Three Hundred (Rs. 2,300/-) to the wage drawn by him on the Thirty First day of August Two Thousand
and Fifteen.
(ii) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the wage scale set out in the First Schedule.
16. Agreement Relating to Productivity improvement and Elimination of Waste.– The Employees and the Union commit their
fullest co-operation to the Employer to enhance productivity and minimize waste in all forms in the mutual interest of preserving the future
of Dipped Products PLC through the programmes conducted under the Dipped Products productivity improvement schemes.
The Employees also agree to adhere to the guidelines laid down in Schedule Two hereof with regard to maintaining the highest
levels of productivity in the factory.
17. Wages for Periods Less than one Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)

<!-- page 76 -->

76 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
18. Annual Lump sum Payment in lieu of Non - Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity  .- (1) A lump sum payment on an ex-gratia
basis would be made at the end of each year of this agreement on the following basis.
(a) A sum of Rs. 12,000/- payable in September 2014 for the period from 01 September 2013 to 31 August 2014.
(b) A sum of Rs. 12,000/- payable in September 2015 for the period from 01 September 2014 to 31 August 2015.
(c) A sum of Rs. 12,000/- payable in September 2016 for the period from 01 September 2015 to 31 August 2016.
2. No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on these Ex - gratia payments.
19. Provident Fund.- The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
20. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act, No. 12
of 1983.
21. Bonus.– (1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment
in the past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of
his employees a bonus which will not be less that the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing
of the Agreement No. 18 of 1982. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than the sum of money
paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of Agreement No. 18 of 1982 the Union may canvas
such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue
this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same
shall be referred to a committee of three (3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus Committee’) which shall be constituted in accordance
with the provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour
will constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10)
years’ post qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to the Federa-
tion. Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee
so constituted a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in
settling the dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of
the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and
the Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is
divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on
the parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General’s decision shall be communicated in writing to the Federation and
the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of  this
Agreement.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) the payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of Agreement No. 18 of 1982 shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by
the Union and / or its members nor shall the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.

<!-- page 77 -->

77 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
22. Annual Pilgrimage/ Excursion.– The employer agrees to grant an annual pilgrimage in keeping with the following conditions
which are accepted by the Union.
1. That in the previous year all operating divisions of the factory had worked on all days except the days stated below, as
has been the practice followed by the company.
The holidays allowed would be -
13 April
14 April Sinhala/ Tamil New Year
15 April In the event of either the 13 or 14 falling on a weekly holiday
01 May
Wesak Day and the Day after Wesak
Poson Full Moon Day -
Two additional days for the purpose of pilgrimage (one which could be a Poya Day).
The Company will close on the 15 April if either the 13 or 14 of April does not fall on a weekly holiday and will set off
one day against their leave entitlement.
(2) With the prior approval of the Company the Branch Union will be responsible for organizing the pilgrimage/ excursion,
obtaining a quotation from the PTB, making payments to the PTB accounting for the funds provided to them for hiring
buses and obtaining a refund of the returnable deposit with the PTB.
(3) Transport costs will be met by the Company at the prevailling PTB rates and the number of buses to be provided will be
on the basis of the maximum rated capacity of the type of buses recommended for the route.
(4) The duration of the pilgrimage should not exceed two (02) days and the maximum approved mileage will be three hundred
and fifty (350) inclusive of dead mileage.
(5) If the pilgrimage is organised to take place during working days the employees will work on holidays in lieu, before the
scheduled dates of the pilgrimage, by prior arrangement with the management.
(6) Each participant will receive a pilgrimage advance of Rs. 800/- a special advance of Rs. 250/- from the annual lump sum
payment in lieu of NRCOLG (provided sufficient funds are available at the time) and an outright grant of Rs. 100/-
(7) Any employee who obtains the payments of sub- clause 6 above and fails to participate in the pilgrimage would be liable
to refund the full sum in the succeeding month. In addition, the company will be entitled to recover the cost of the redundant
seat of the bus due to his non - participation.
(8) Members of the immediate family of an employee will also be permitted to participate in the annual pilgrimage/ excursion.
In respect of their participation, the contribution of the Company will be restricted to the cost of transport.
23. Annual Increments.– The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in the  First Schedule
hereto shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctu ality or
disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –
(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
 

<!-- page 78 -->

78 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(c) Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
occur to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the
circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
24. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
25. Suspension.– 1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer–
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an
inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 26 hereof.
26. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then:
1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 25 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or  charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than Three (3) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. Within Three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice  and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
3. If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Ten (10)  working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings of each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, If any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30)  working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that;
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 25(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespective
of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges
in the show cause notice;

<!-- page 79 -->

79 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s suspen-
sion and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to Police or  other authorities or if in view
of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred
to the Police or  other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be
awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
7. If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from  the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension
in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes and order under paragraphs ( a) to (c) of the
preceding  sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
8. In any case where the Employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of  sub-clause 6  within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the  Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of  ninety (90) days be extended for such
further time  as may be agreed.
9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes  to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the
Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then
apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after the
receipt of the Employee’s  explanation shall not be material or relevant.
10. The Employer may, as an alternative to more serious disciplinary action, recover from an Employee the cost of  damage to
or loss of the Employer’s goods or property or a percentage thereof, caused through the negligence of the Employee as
determined at a domestic inquiry or on the admission of the Employee.
27. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be Employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired  may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
28. Termination of Services.- (1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for
work usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 4 hereof or unless otherwise
expressly stipulated) be deemed  and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from
month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to the
other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual  or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
29. Union Recognition.- The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf  of any of its members who is employed
in any workplace of the Employer bound by this Agreement. In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as
matters affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as whole, the following provi sions
shall apply.
(1) When the Union is  representative of not less than forty per cent. (40%) of the employees  whose membership subscription
is not in arrears, the Employer of such employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters

<!-- page 80 -->

80 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
and negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of  not less than forty percent
(40%) of such employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and
negotiated with the Union competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately
with each such Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer the Union is, competent to
make general claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by the
Department of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the employer and that Union and the parties
hereto.
30. Disputes procedure.– (1) In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand  on behalf of its members to the Employer of
such members and give the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply.  If in the Union’s opinion the Employe’s
reply is unsatisfactory the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) When the union concludes that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive it shall ask the Department of Labour
to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working day’s to arrange Conference and or discussions with
a View to a settlement of the  dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until
the Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 32 hereof all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties
hereto shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair Labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
31. How Anomalies In The Course of Implementing  this Agreement Shall be Dealt With .- Any anomaly, arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled
by negotiation, it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
32. Trade Union Action.– The union and Employees  jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in
force of this agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any dispute
between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is  related to the  Agreement, except where such dispute
has been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the union is mala
fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the union and/or its members or is grossly
unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the union and/or its members. Provided however that at least seven (7) days notice in writing
shall be given by the union to the Employer, the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of
any intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent upon an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body
(by whatsoever name called)  of the union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate
activities of the union and/or its members  is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the union and/or its members.
33. Variation of terms and conditions of Employment and Benefits.–  (1) The Union and the employees jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or  add to all or any of the terms
and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement  as amended or altered
in terms of  this Agreement, all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement other
than by mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or
any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  the employees other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary
arbitration.

<!-- page 81 -->

81 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
PART II
CONTAINING  THE  FACILITIES  AND  CONCESSIONS  GRANTED  BY  THE  EMPLOYER  TO  THE  UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the Union shall commit a breach of any
of he terms of this Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the Employer in the succeeding classes of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore
such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide:
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 26 is a member of the union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice-
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as an observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Annual General Meeting . – It is agreed that for the Annual General meeting of the Union the Employer will grant duty leave not
exceeding four (4) hours to all employees subject to the following conditions :
(1) The Union shall give adequate notice to the Company regarding the date on which the Annual General Meeting is to
be held and the date shall be one which is acceptable to the Company.
(2) That no person other than an employee in the service of the Employer shall be present at such meeting save and
except as provided for in the following sub-paragraph.
(3) The Parent Union office bearers shall be permitted to attend such meeting on approval being obtained for the
individuals concerned for which purpose the union shall specify the names of the persons who would be represent-
ing the Union at such meeting.
(4) The Union shall take appropriate steps to provide a skeleton staff to enable essential functions to go on while the
Annual General Meeting is in session.
(5) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting
of the Union is granted are duly complied with.
(6) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in the
connection with the Annual General meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property, other employees or persons
within the premises and the Union shall indemnify the Employer against such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–   (i) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave -
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if, in his discretion, the exigencies of the circumstances warrant
refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of  the Union :-
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour, in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer ;

<!-- page 82 -->

82 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
 OR
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals - without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer shall provide the President and the Secretary half day’s duty leave on not more than 4 occasions per month
to go to the Union Headquarters in connection with Union activities.
(3) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.
(4) The Employer shall grant a day’s duty leave to twelve (12) employees to attend the annual General Meeting of the Parent
Union.
5. Check Off. –
(1) The facility of check - off shall be granted, subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Union represent no less
than forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall, on the written request of an employee, deduct from the wages due to such employees the current
monthly Union, dues as are specified by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set
forth.
(3) Every employee, who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his  wages, shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 referred to as an “Authorization”
(4) Every employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a “Revocation”.
(5) As far as practicable, deduction under an Authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorisation, Provided, however –
(a) That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the employee concerned for failure
to comply with sub - clauses (5) or (6);
(b) That in his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in
which the deductions From the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by law ;
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to
the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
Union’s dues actually deducted.

<!-- page 83 -->

83 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
FORM NO. 1
Name of Employer:  DIPPED PRODUCTS PLC
Authorization
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the DIPPED PRODUCTS PLC COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2013 and I desire to avail
myself of the facility for check-off  contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the INTER COMPANY
EMPLOYEES’ UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ……………… (Rs.        ) in respect of my current
monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from
my wages due immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer:  DIPPED PRODUCTS PLC
Revocation
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UNION, with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and  II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite
to them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptions
payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.

<!-- page 84 -->

84 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement
(For convenience sometimes
referred to as ‘he’ or its
grammatical variations)
Employer Dipped Products PLC
Federation Employer’s Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is em-
ployed in.
Union Inter Company Employees’ Union
Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule
hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Year  A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine .
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 85 -->

85 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 86 -->

86 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 87 -->

87 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 88 -->

88 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 89 -->

89 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 90 -->

90 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 91 -->

91 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 92 -->

92 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 93 -->

93 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 94 -->

94 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 95 -->

95 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 96 -->

96 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 97 -->

97 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 98 -->

98 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014


<!-- page 99 -->

99 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
SCHEDULE 2
GUIDLINES FOR ENHANCED PRODUCTIVITY
I) The Union and the Employees agree to co - operate with the employer by taking the necessary initiative to ensure inter alia, the following
in all departments of the factory.
(A) Increased Production
(B) Increased Productivity
(C) Improved Quality
(D) Maintain ISO Systems
(E) Ensure Proper Housekeeping
(F) Control and Elimination of Waste
(G) Business Process Review
(H) 5 ‘S’ Projects
(I) Total Product Maintenance
(II) The issues that will be addressed in achieving the aforementioned measures are referred to hereunder :-
1. Increase in Production
Monitor Stoppages due to.–
(a) Breakdowns
(b) Planned Maintenance
(c) Unplanned Breakdowns
(d) Monitor job completion times
(e) Interruption to services
(f) Delays due to shortage of compounds
(g) Quality Problems
(h) Bypassing
(i) Latex Tank changes
(j) Lack of Employees
(k) Attendance on Poya / holidays
(l) Bowl efficiency and Factory Efficiency
(m) Sorting Output
2. Increase Productivity
Monitor pairs produced per man - hour
(i) Monitor man - hours
(ii) Programme to eliminate unnecessary hours
(iii) Reduce Su pervision Time
(iv) Ensure first time correct
(v) Monitor Kg per man hour
3. Improvement To Quality
(A) Reduction of scraps and rejects
(B) Reduce grade 2 defects
(C) Increase grade 1 Level
(D) Control correct specification of Centrifuged Latex
(E) Control correct re - sorting Level
(F) Monitor and control specification of compounds / process parameters
(G) Monitor and control quality problems due to compounds

<!-- page 100 -->

100 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
4. ISO Systems
Responsibility for–
(a) Audits
(b) Training participation
(c) Adhere to laid down Systems
(d) Control charts and Trend charts
5. House Keeping
Involvement of the members to create a better working environment and adhering to ‘5S’ concept
6. Wastage
Monitor and Control
(a) Dipping levels
(b) Weights and thickness of gloves
(c) Steam consumption
(d) Compressed air consumption
(e) Water Consumption
(f) Flock Consumption
(g) Compound Consumption
(h) Chemical Consumption
(III) It is agreed that Plant B will be operated by company Employees. In the event of a vacancy in the cadre of Plant B the Uni on in
consultation with the Management will find a suitable replacement from the permanet employees. In the event a suitable replacement
cannot be found within a period of one week the management would be at liberty to engage a person of their choice.
(IV) As additional work the employees would have to take part in organized Group meetings to monitor the results.
(V) The employees agreed to the following :
(1) Increase Plant B output by running at 70 sec. cycle
(2) Focus attention of their members in the plants to reduce breakage of former
(3) Further improve productivity in other departments as well and Centrifuging in particular
(4) There will be no stoppage of plants for tea breaks
(5) To open and  maintain bank accounts and obtain all payments through the Bank including wages, bonus payments and such
other payments
(VI) Whereas both parties agree that it is in the overall interest and stability of the enterprise to adhere to the guidelines set out herein, the
parties shall cooperate with each other in a sense of mutual trust  to adhere to the said guidelines.

<!-- page 101 -->

101 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2014.05.13
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2014
05 - 821
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA