

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
889
889
wxl 1"712 - 2011 cqks ui 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'06'24
No. 1,712 – FRIDAY , JUNE 24, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 892
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 899
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st July, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th June,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,711 of 17.06.2011 was not published.
Note.— (i) Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist Educational Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was
published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 03rd June, 2011.
(ii) Sri Lanka Psychological Association (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 03rd June, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
890
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
891
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
892
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Post of Superintendent of Translations
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka with the
qualifications stipulated hereunder, for the post of Superintendent
of Translations, now vacant in the Ministry of Justice.
02. (i) Educational qualifications.– Should have obtained a degree
from a University, recognized by the University Grants
Commission ; and
Should have obtained a credit pass for Sinhala/Tamil/
English Languages at the General Certificate of Education
Ordinary Level Examination ; or
Should have passed Sinhala/English/Tamil Languages at
the General Certificate of Education Advanced Level
Examination.
(ii) Professional qualifications.– Should be an officer in the
Special Class of the Translators’ Service.
(iii) Physical qualifications.– Every applicant may be called
upon to serve in any part of the Island and should be
mentally and physically fit to perform the duties of the
said post.
03. Other qualifications :
(a) 1. The applicant should bear a moral character ;
2. The applicant should posses all the required
qualifications for the post as at the date mentioned in
the gazette notification or notice for calling
applications.
04. Salary scale.– MN-7-2006-A
Rs. 20,030- 11 x 365 - 18 x 500 - Rs. 33,045 per month.
05. Recruitment Procedure.– Through a structural interview.
06. Conditions of Service :
(a) This post is Permanent and Pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the Widows’ and Orphans’/Widowers’
and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
(b) Selected applicant is required to conform to the provisions
of the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, rules, regulations that
may be imposed from time to time to give effect to the
Language policy of the Government. As well, the applicant
will be subjected to the financial regulations and provisions
set out in the Establishment Code, Departmental Orders
and any other orders or regulations that may be issued by
the Government from time to time. In addition, Section
10-12 of Chapter II of the Establishment Code, will apply.
(c) The selected applicant may be called upon to serve in any
part of the Island and should be mentally and physically
fit to perform the duties of the said post and should have
passed the medical examination conducted by a
Government Medical Officer.
(d) The selected candidate should adhere to the rules, orders
or regulations of the Public Services Commission published
in the Gazette Notification dated 20.02.2009.
07. Applications should be duly filled in conformity with the
specimen application form, on a A4 size paper, using both sides and
the cages 01-14 should be on the first page and 14 onwards should be
on the second page. Completed applications should be sent through
the Heads of the Departments/Institutions, under Registered Post to
the address given below on or before 15.07.2011. The words “Posts
of Superintendent of Translations in the Ministry of Justice” should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application form.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
08. Marking Scheme of the interview :
Spheres for which marks are Total Pass
awarded Marks Marks
(01) Educational qualifications :
(i) Posses a degree :
Should have followed Sinhala/Tamil/ 45
English Languages as a major subject
for the degree (maximum marks - 15)
(ii) For a Diploma in Sinhala/Tamil/English
Languages (maximum marks - 15)
(iii) Attorney-at-Law/Degree in Law
(15 marks)
(02) Experience :
Experience in the Special Class of the 30 40
Translators’ Service (10 marks)
(2 marks per year maximum of 05 years)
Experience as a Translator with special
Reference to the field of Judiciary - (20 marks)
(04 marks per year maximum of 05 years)
(03) Additional qualifications – Computer Literacy 20
National V ocational Skilled level I (4 marks)
National V ocational Skilled level II (8 marks)
National V ocational Skilled level III (12 marks)
National V ocational Skilled level IV (16 marks)
National V ocational Skilled level V (20 marks)
(04) Leadership, personality and communication 05
skills as per discretion of the Interview Board

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
893
09. Please note that incomplete applications and applications
submitted without basic qualifications and received after the closing
date will be rejected without notice. Any complaints on the late
applications and the applications lost in the post will not be taken
into consideration.
10. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the inaccuracy is
discovered before selection and to dismissal if discovered after
selection.
Any matter not provided for in this notification will be determined
by the Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
S
UHADA K. GAMALATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF SUPERINTENDENT OF TRANSLATIONS
No. :..................
(for office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
Name with initials (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
(b) Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
Permanent address (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
03. Contact Telephone No. :––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
05. Sex :––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Date :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of application :
Days :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Years :–––––––––.
08. Nationality :––––––––––.
09. Marital status :––––––––––.
10. Particulars in respect of the degree :
Degree :––––––––––.
Subjects :––––––––––.
University :––––––––––.
Date awarded :––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––.
11. The date on which the applicant absorbed to the Special Class of
the Translators’ Service :––––––––––.
Experience : No. of years :––––––––––.
12. Experience as a Translator with special reference to the field of
Judiciary, No. of years :––––––––––.
13. Other educational qualifications :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
(iii) ––––––––––.
14. Language proficiency (indicate ‘3’ in the relevant column) :
Very good Good Satisfactory Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
CERTIFICATE OF THE APPLICANT
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I have
not been retired compulsorily for inefficiency or not been retired as
a merciful alternative to dismissal or has not been dismissed on any
other ground. I am also aware that if any particular contained herein
is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualify if detected
before selection and to dismissal if detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF
THE DEP ARTMENT/INSTITUTION
I declare that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... is an
officer in Special Class of the Translators’ Service in the Department/
Institution, and that he/she can be/cannot be released from service if
selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of
Head of the Department/Institution.
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––.
06–626

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
894
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
TRINCOMALEE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for this post.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th Jul y, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
01st June, 2011.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary’ s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Trincomalee Padavi Sripura Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Padavi Janapadaya Division and   Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General) of Katukulan   Trincom alee
Pattu East Division
06–550
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of  Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
895
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th of July, 2011.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
06th June, 2011.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Matara Kotapola Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Morawak Koralaya West and Births   General, District Secretariat, Matara
and Deaths of Pallegama Division
Matara Kirinda Puhulwella Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Gangabada Pattuwa and Births and   General, District Secretariat, Matara
Deaths of Kirinda East Division
Matara Dickwella Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Wellabada Pattuwa and Births   General, District Secretariat, Matara
and Deaths of Dickwella Division  
Matara Mulatiyana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Kandabada Pattuwa and Births   General, District Secretariat, Matara
and Deaths of Ranchagoda Division
Matara Akuressa Post of Registrar of Additional Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Weligam Korale,   General, District Secretariat, Matara
Akuressa Division
06–483
–––––––––––––––-
DEPARTMENT  OF  PRISONS
Recruitment for Post of Prison Guard of the
Department of Prisons – 2011
Open Category
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka both males
and females with the qualifications stipulated hereunder, for the
posts of Prison Guards, vacant in the Department of Prisons.
02. Number of vacancies and filling of vacancies :
2.1 Number of vacancies in the post of Prison Guard is Two
Hundred and Ninety (290). 95% of the existing vacancies
will be filled by an Open Category and 5% will be recruited
from the applicants of the Department of Prisons by
Open Category. Number of Female guards recruited will
be restricted to the number of vacancies existed in the
posts of Female guards.
2.2 The appointing authority shall have the power not to fill
any number of vacancies or all vacancies.
03. Responsibility of the post.– Provide custody and care about
inmates in prisons and assist in administration of the Prisons.
04. Nature of the post.– This post is permanent and pensionable.
Contributions should be made to the Widows’ and Orphans’/
Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
896
05. Salary Scale.– Rs. 14,280 - 7 x 145 - 10 x 180 - 17 x 240 -
Rs. 21,175.
06. Conditions of employment :
6.1 Appointment to the post of Prison Guard will be made
subject to general conditions governing the appointment
of Public Service and to the regulations of the approved
scheme of recruitment for the post of Prison Guard set
out in the Letter No. A/SA/3/2/07(01) and dated
18.11.2008 of the Public Service Commission and any
other amendments made and to be made thereto.
6.2 Prison Guards who are liable to serve in any prisons
throughout the Island are required to reimburse all
expenses incurred on training, if they vacate the initial
period of training or compulsory service period not
exceeding 10 years.
6.3 The persons recruited to the post of Prison Guard should
stay for a minimum period of five years in bachelors’
quarters provided by the Department of Prisons.
07. Scheme of selection :
7.1 Number of applicants equal to five times of vacancies,
will be called for written examination among the
candidates who have scored highest marks at physical
fitness test.
7.2 Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration (SLIDA) will conduct the written
examination.
7.3 In order to be qualified in any subject the candidates are
required to obtain 40 marks (40%) or above.
7.4 Number of applicants equal to twice the number of
vacancies will be called for the structural interview among
the candidates who have qualified and scored highest
marks at the written examination.
7.5 The Director SLIDA is required to furnish to the
Commissioner General of Prisons, a Schedule prepared,
on alphabetical order of the names of candidates who
obtained highest marks at the examination and are
qualified to be called for the interview, without including
the marks they have obtained at the examination. These
Schedules will be published in the Prisons Department’s
web site.
7.6 The marks obtained at the interview will be furnished to
the Director SLIDA.
7.7 Candidates are selected on merit basis as per the Schedule
prepared in accordance with the total marks obtained at
the inteview and the written examination subject to the
available vacancies.
7.8 The total marks obtained by all the applicants at the
interview and the written examination will be published
in the departmental web site.
7.9 To maintain the transparency of the scheme of selection,
the marks obtained at the written examination will not
be issued to the applicants or appointing authority, till
the final result is issued. Marks of the written
examination will be issued to each applicants by the
Director SLIDA after final results is released.
7.10 Candidates who have not possessed any of the
qualifications referred to in 8.1, 8.2, 8.3 and 9 of this
notice, are not eligible to obtain appointment
notwithstanding their marks obtained singularly or
severally at the written examination or interview.
7.11 Calling for the interview shall not be treated as claiming
an appointment. As a number equal to twice the numbers
of applicants are called for an interview, half of the said
amount will be appointed to the said posts. Recruitment
of female applicants will be restricted only to the number
of vacancies existed in Female Guard posts.
08. Qualifications :
8.1 Basic qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The applicant should be of good character. Convicted
by any Court of Law for any offence relating to
immoral character is a disqualification for
appointment to the above post.
(iii) Should be physically sound.
A residential training similar to that for the military
service will be mandatory for the selected officers.
8.2 Minimum Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education Ordinary Level Examination in not more
than two sittings in 06 subjects including Sinhala/
Tamil and Mathematics ;
and
(ii) With two Credit passes for any two subjects.
Note.– Not less than five subjects should be passed in
one sitting.
8.3 Physical qualifications :
8.3.1 Measurements :
8.3.1.1 For males :
(i) Minimum Height - 5 feet 4 inches.
(ii) Male candidates should have a chest
measurement of 32 inches deflated.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
897
8.3.1.2 For females :
(i) Minimum height - 5 feet 2 inches.
8.3.2 Physical fitness -
Should be scored minimum or higher marks relevant
to each age category.
09. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years or not more than
30 years as at the last date for the receipt of application. The
minimum age limit will not apply to persons already in public
service/Provincial Public Service.
10. Written Test :
Serial Question Maximum Cut Time Nature of the
No. Paper Marks off Question paper
marks
01 Intelligence 100 40 1 hour Multiple choice
Test questions and
questions for
which short replies
are required
02 General 100 40 1 hour Multiple choice
Knoweldge questions and
questions for
which short replies
are required
10.1 Syllabus :
10.1.1 Intelligence Test :
The paper will consist of questions designed to
test the candidate's ability in logical thinking and
analytical reasoning.
10.1.2 General Knowlege :
General paper designed to test the knowledge of
the candidate on matters relating to human rights
and fundamental rights, information technology, the
political, social, cultural and economic environment
of Sri Lanka including the environment where the
candidate is resident, current affairs of national and
international importance and scientific and technical
developments.
11. Structural Interview :
Serial Field Maximum marks
No. obtainable
01 Sports 05
02 Technical knowledge 05
03 Character development and leadership 05
04 Subject related activities 05
05 Higher education 05
06 Presentation skills 05
12. Penalty for furnishing false information .– The application
should be filled very carefully and accurately. If found furnishing
falls information his/her candidature will be cancelled at any time
before the selection process or while the selection process is being
conducted or after. If any information furnished by any candidate is
found to be false at any stage, he/she is liable to be dismissed from
public service.
13. Application Procedure :
13.1 Preparing the application :
13.1.1 Application should be prepared in conformity
with the specimen application form. Further the
candidate should check whether the completed
application form conforms to the specimen
application mentioned in the notification of the
examination. If not the application will be rejected.
13.1.2 Applications should be prepared on a usual
photocopy sheet (21 x 29cm/8.5" x 12'/A4) using
both sides of the paper.
13.2 Filling the application form :
13.2.1 Application should be filled in the medium of
language in which you sit at the examination.
13.2.2 Attestation :
Candidate’s identity should be attested by a
principal of a government school, Justice of the
peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, a
commissioned officer in the Armed forces, an officer
holding a gazetted post in the police service or an
officer holding a permanent post in the government
service with an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or
above or in case of an officer in Public/Provincial
Public Service by the Head of the relevant
institution.
13.2.3 Applications not conforming ot the specimen
application form and not paid the prescribed
examination fee on or before the stipulated date
and incomplete applications will be rejected
without any notice. Any liability resulting from
not completing application should be borne by the
candidate themselves.
13.3 Sending the application form :
13.3.1 The words "Recruitment to the post of Prison
Guards 2011 – Open category" should be written
on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application form.
13.3.2 The completed applications should be sent under
registered cover to the address which is convenient
to you, to be present at physical fitness test to be
reached on or before 08.07.2011 enclosing stamped,

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
898
addressed envelope of size 9" x 4". See Schedule
01 for address.
13.3.3 Any complaints on applications reached after
08.07.2011 and the applications lost in the post
will not be considered.
14. Any matter not provided for here will be determined by the
Commissioner General of Prisons. All candidates are bound to act
in conformity with the general rules and regulations set out in the
Gazette.
V . R. S
ILV A, RSP, USP, NDU, IG.,
Major General,
Commissioner of Prisons.
Prison Headquarters,
Colombo 09,
07th June, 2011.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
R
ECRUITMENT FOR POST OF PRISON GUARD AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
PRISONS – 2011 OPEN CATEGORY
(for office use only)
Medium of Examination : (The medium of language cannot be
changed later)
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
*Indicate the town in which the applicant wishes to sit for the
examination, as 1, 2, 3......... according to applicants own choice in
the cage below. (Applicant is directed to the closest centre when
adequate number of applicants are not available for any center.)
Town
Colombo
Kandy
Anuradhapura
Batticaloa
Jaffna
(The town applied for cannot be changed later)
01. Name :
(i) Name with initials (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
Ex : PERERA, A. B. C.
(ii) Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(iv) National Identity Card Number :
02. (i) Permanent address (in English block letters) :–––––––––.
(ii) Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(iii) Address to which the admission card should be sent (in
English block letters) :–––––––––.
03. (i) Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant digit in the cage)
(ii) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iii) Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
(iv) Whether married or single :
Married – 1
Single – 2
(Indicate the relevant digit in the cage)
04. (i) Since when the candidate is resident in the relevant
district ? :–––––––––.
(ii) Police Division :–––––––––.
(iii) Height : ––––––– feet ––––––––– inches
(iv) Chest :–––––––––. inches :–––––––––.
05. Educational qualifications :
Particulars of the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
(iii) Results of the examination :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1st attempt  2nd attempt 1st attempt  2nd attempt
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
06. Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law for any offence ?
(If yes give particulars) :
Yes N o
(Mark 3 in the relevant cage) (if "yes" give reasons)
07. Certificate of the appilcant :
(i) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
I hereby agree to bear any loss resulting from failure to fill
any sections and/or, not correctly filling any section and/
or incorrectly filling any section of this application. Further
I declare that all sections of this application have been
correctly filled.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
899
(ii) I am also aware that I am liable to be disqualified before
selection and to be dismissed after the appointment if this
declaration is proved to be incorrect.
(iii) I read all the particulars mentioned in the Gazette before
filling the application.
(iv) I will not subsequently alter any particulars contained
herein.
(v) I enclosed an addressed and stamped envelope of 9'' x 4''
here with.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
09. Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ...............
who is submitting this application is personally known to me and
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ............. and that
he/she has paid prescribed examination fee and the said receipt is
affixed hereto.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––.
Full name of Attester :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Official seal should be affixed)
SCHEDULE 01
District Institute of Prisons Institute of Prisons - Address
01. Jaffna Jaffna Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Jaffna Remand Prison, Jaffna
02. Trincomalee Trincomalee Remand Prison Ass istant Superintendent of Prisons, Trincomalee Remand Prison,
Trincomalee
03. Anuradhapura Anuradhapura Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Anuradhapura Remand Prison,
Anuradhapura
04. Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Polonnaruwa Remand Prison,
Polonnaruwa
05. Batticaloa Batticaloa Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Batticaloa Remand Prison,  Batticaloa
06. Kurunegala W ariyapola Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Wariyapola Remand Prison,
Wariyapola
07. Gampaha Mahara Prison Superintendent of Prisons, Mahara Prison, Mahara
Negombo Remand Prison Superintendent of Prisons, Negombo Prison, Negombo
08. Kegalle Kegalle Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Kegalle Remand Prison, Kegalle
09. Colombo New Magazine Prison Superintendent of Prisons, New Magazine Prison, Colombo 09
Colombo Remand Prison Superintendent of Prisons, Colombo Remand Prison, Colombo 09
10. Kaluthara Kaluthara Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Kaluthara Remand Prison, Kaluthara
11. Kandy Bogambara Prison Superintendent of Prisons, Bogambara Prison, Kandy
12. Badulla Badulla Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Badulla Remand Prison, Badulla
13. Ratnapura Kuruwita Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Kuruwita Remand Prison, Kuruwita
14. Monaragala Monaragala Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Monaragala Remand Prison,
Monaragala
15. Galle Galle Remand Prison Superintendent of Prisons, Galle Prison, Galle
16. Mathara Mathara Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Mathara Remand Prison, Mathara
17. Hambantota T angalle Remand Prison Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, Tangalle Remand Prison, Tangalle
06–559
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-Service Professional
Course in Teacher Education - 2012
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre-Servic e
Professional Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility : Every applicant should –
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
900
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health ;
2.3 Age :
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as on 01.01.2012 ;
2.3.2 Clergy who apply for the course of Catholicism/Christianity should not be more than 30 years of age as on 01.01.2012;
2.3.3 Buddhist Monks/Buddhist Nuns who apply for the Course of Buddhism should not be more than 27 years of age as
on 01.01.2012 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010.  (Two passes for Sri Pada
National College of Education).
(Applicants for Technological Studies Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.12 and applicants for Christianity/
Chatholicism course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.9 ).
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects  including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language with three Credit passes at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings. (Should have passed at least 5 Core subjects at the first sitting). Core
subjects - (i) Religion, (ii) First Language, (iii) English, (iv) Mathematics, (v) Aesthetic subjects (Art, Dancing, Music,
Drama and Theatre/Literature (Sinhala, Tamil, English, Arabic), (vi) Science and Technology, (vii) Social Studies and History,
(viii) Technical subjects (Agriculture, Commerce and Accounts, Handy craft)).
3.3 If the Special requirements in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been completed in two sittings,
they should have been completed at the third sitting. (Special requirements will be considered only if the applicants have
completed the basic qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above. If Special qualifications have not been especially mentioned;
only the qualifications mentioned under 3.1 and 3.2 will be considered).
3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Language Course and English Medium Courses.
3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses except for English Language Course should have obtained a Credit
pass in English/Ordinary pass in English Literature at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
3.4.2 Applicants for the English Language Course should have obtained Very Good Pass in English Language/Credit Pass
in English Literature. A Credit for English or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) will be sufficient
if the applicants have passed English Language as a subject in G .C.E. (A/L). However, in case of obtaining the same
mark in proficiency test by two or more applicants, the results obtained at the G. C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting will
be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good pass, 02 marks
for a Credit pass and 01 mark for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the
total number of marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
3.4.3 Although the Courses on  Information Communcation Technology and Western Music are conducted in the English
Medium, the applicants are selected from those who have appeared for G.C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil or English
Medium concerning the number of vacancies existing in Sinhala and Tamil Medium Schools.
3.5 Effective date of all the Educational/V ocational certificates should be on or before the closing date of applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special Requirements :
Educational qualifications and other special requirements applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows :
4.1 Course No. 01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2010 (Two passes including
Sinhala/Tamil Language for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
901
4.1.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil
Language and two other subjects.
Note.– The student will be selected for primary course in National Colleges of Education in year 2013, from those
who have credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, English Language in G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
* Selected applicant for the primary course should serve a period of 05 years continuously in primary classes in the
government school.
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Sinhala)
Science (Tamil)
Science (English)
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 in the following subjects :  Physics,
Chemistry and Biology (Two passes including biology for Sri Pada National College of Education);
and
4.2.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Mathematics 32 or Mathematics 42
Note.–  Science (English) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and apeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium. If 50% of the qualified applicants as per (i) is not available layman applicants will be selected
as per (ii).
4.3 Course No. 03 - Mathematics (Sinhala)
Mathematics (Tamil)
Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2010  in the following subjects :
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two passes in one of the
following subjects including Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and Higher Mathematics for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ;
and
4.3.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Science 34.
Note.–  Mathematics  (English) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and apeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium. If 50% of the qualified applicants as per (i) is not available layman applicants will be
selected as per (ii).
4.4 Course No. 04 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
Physical Education (Tamil)
4.4.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 ;
and
4.4.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Health and Physical Education
and Mathematics ;
and
4.4.3 Achievements /performances of the recognized Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports. A maximum of 75
marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
902
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS /EVENTS
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single —— 1 25
2 International Level single —— 2 24
3 International Level single —— 3 23
4 International Level —— team 1 22
5 International Level —— team 2 21
6 International Level —— team 3 20
7 International Level single team —— 19
  Representation
8 National Level single —— 1 18
9 National Level single —— 2 17
10 National Level single —— 3 16
11 National Level —— team 1 15
12 National Level —— team 2 14
13 National Level —— team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single —— 1 12
15 Provincial Level single —— 2 11
16 Provincial Level single —— 3 10
17 Provincial Level —— team 1 09
18 Provincial Level —— team 2 08
19 Provincial Level —— team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major —— —— —— 06
/Warrant Officer 1
21 Presidents’ Scout/Girl Guide —— —— —— 06
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant —— —— —— 05
Officer 2
23 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal / single —— 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal / —— team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal / —— team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal / —— team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level
4.4.4 Following marks will be awarded for passes obtained for the Health and Physical Education at G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
A Pass  -  05
B Pass  -  03
       C Pass  - 02
Note.–
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions (International).–  Participation at International Competitions representing
Sri Lanka National Teams or School National Sports Teams (except Chess, Carom and Draught) through
Ministry of Education / Ministry of Sports and their registered sports Associations (Participation in International
Competitions on personal basis by school sports teams will not be considered) ;
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions .– National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/
Ministry of Sports/National Youth Services Council ;
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education /Provincial Ministry of
Sports /National Youth Services Council ;

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
903
District Level Competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/Provincial Ministry of Sports
/National Youth Services Council ;
Zonal level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education ;
(iii) 1st, 2nd and 3rd places in “A” Grade competitions organized by Sports Associations registered  under the
Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education will only be given priority in order ;
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements within the preceding five years before the closing
date of the application will only be valid ;
Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
4.5 Course No. 05 - English
4.5.1 Passed any Three Subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2010 including English Language (Not General
English) with credit pass for English Language/Ordinary pass in English Literature and Six core subjects including
Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
 or
4.5.2 Passed any Three Subjects in one sitting at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 and three passes including
English at London G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 and credit pass in English Language/Ordinary pass
in English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination/London G . C. E. (O/L) examination having passed six core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics ;
or
4.5.3 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010  and passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in
six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a very good pass in English Language/
Credit pass in English Literature.
Note.–
(i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.5.1 and 4.5.2 they do not need to sit for the proficiency test. Their
qualifications should be proved at the interview ;
(ii) Applicants who are qualified under 4.5.3 will be selected through the Proficiency Test.
4.6 Course No. 06 - Buddhism
Buddhist Priests/Nuns and the Laity can apply for the Course of Buddhism. All requirements should have been
completed in Year 2010 or before. (Laity candidates should have completed all educational qualifications in their laity
name in Year 2010 or before).
4.6.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2010 with three subjects including two out of Buddhism,
Buddhist Civilization, Pali and Sinhala ;
4.6.2 Passed Pracheena, Preliminary examination (only for Buddhist Priests/Nuns) ;
4.6.3 Passed Bauddha Dharmacharya Examination ;
4.6.4 Passed Daham School Final Examination ;
4.6.5 Passed  G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Buddhism and
Mathematics passed Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination in six core subjects with Sinhala Language,
Mathematics and Tripitaka Dharma.
Note.–
(i) Priority order in selection –
(a) Applicants having all certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 4.6.3, 4. 6. 4 and 4.6. 5 ;
(b) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and 4.6.5 ;
(c) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.3 and 4.6.5 ;
(d) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.4 and 4.6.5 ;
(e) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1 and 4.6.5.
4.7 Course No. 07 - Hinduism
4.7.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the  following subjects. – Hinduism, Hindu Civilization and
Sanskrit in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 ;

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
904
4.7.2 Candidates having Shaiva Siddhantha Pandithar Certificate ;
4.7.3 Candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.7.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.7.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Hinduism.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having 4.7.1 and all other certificates ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4, 4.7.5 and one certificate out of other two ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.5 and one certificate out of other three ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1., 4.7.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2010 or earlier.
4.8 Course No. 08 – Islam
4.8.1 Three passes including one of the following subjects - Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic in the
G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010.
4.8.2 Passed all subjects in Al-Alim Preliminary Examination and passed all subjects in Al-Alim Final Examination ;
4.8.3 Having Moulavi Certificate and passed all subject Al-Alim Preliminary Examination ;
4.8.4 Having Moulavi Certificate ;
4.8.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and Islam.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.2, 4.8.3, 4.8.4 and 4.8.5 ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.3, 4.8.4. and 4.8.5 ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.4 and 4.8.5 ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1 and 4.8.5.
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2010 or earlier.
4.9 Course No. 09 – Catholicism/Christianity (Sinhala)
                          Catholicism/Christianity (Tamil)
4.9.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 and passes in six core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
Ordinary pass for Christianity in G. C. E. (A/L) examination or Credit pass for Catholicism/Christianity in
G. C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
The certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics to be a teacher of Catholicism and the certificate of National
Christian Council for Christians to be a teacher of Christianity.
4.9.2 Selection of Catholicism candidates will be made by giving priority in the order of following qualifications :
4.9.2.1 Four year course certificate on Theology (BTH) ;
or
4.9.2.2 Christian Philosophy certificate conducted by the National Seminary ;
or
4.9.2.3 Three year religious education course certificate in Deva Dharma Nikethanaya ;
or
4.9.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy Sect that the candidate has successfully
completed the study of the religious education and training course (Novitiate) to become a member
of the clergy ;
or
4.9.2.5 Passed the Catholic Dharmacharya examination conducted by the National Catechetical Centre
Namely Dharmacharya Hons/Dahamguru 3 ;
or

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
905
Dharmacharya Special (Dahamguru 2) or Dharmacharya Ordinary (Dahamguru 1) ;
or
4.9.2.6 Passed Christianity in G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
4.9.3 Selection of candidates for Christianity will be made according to the qualifications indicated in the following
order :
4.9.3.1 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Lanka Theological College, Pilimathalawa.
4.9.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge conducted by National Christianity
Council.
Note.– (i) To select 90% from all admissions, Catholic candidates qualified under 4.9.1 will be selected on the
serial order shown under 4.9.2 When 90% of Catholic candidates have not applied, Christian candidates
will be selected for such vacancies.
(ii) 10% of the total number of admissions will be selected from among Christian candidates qualified under
4.9.1 according to the serial order shown under 4.9.3. If 10% Christian candidates have not applied,
Catholic candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
(iii) 40% of the total number of admissions will be selected from Catholic and Christian Clergy. If the
required percentage (40%) of vacancies cannot be filled out of clergy, selection will be made from Laity
applicants.
(iv) In case of sufficient applicants of the Clergy who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) in 2010  are not available,
those (clergy, who have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) examination immediately preceding the Years 2009,
2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 will be selected considering the closest year to 2010. If 40% of the Clergy
candidates have not applied layman candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
4.10 Course No. 10 - Special Education (Sinhala)
                           Special Education (Tamil)
4.10.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 ;
and
4.10.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six  core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
Note.– The applicants of this course are considered to appoint as techers to teach those of special educational
needs such as visually-impairments, hearing-impairments, multi-impairments, autism, learning difficulties
and intellectual deficiencies, Hence, only those who agree to serve in the classrooms where the impaired
children learn, should apply.
4.11 Course No. 11 - Agriculture and Food Technology (Sinhala)
                         Agriculture and Food Technology (Tamil)
4.11.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010  with Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry ;
or
4.11.2 Passed three subjects including Agriculture/Agricultural Technology/Bio - Resource Technology / Food
Technology at  G . C. E. (A/L) examination in year 2010 ;
and
4.11.3 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with Credit passes for Mathematics
and Science.
Note.– Priority will be given to the Applicants qualified under 4.11.1
In admission of students in year 2013, for Agriculture and Food Technology Course,
1. Compulsory to obtain credit passes for Agriculture/Agriculture and Food Technology, Mathematics and
Science at G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
2. Priority will be given to those who have passed Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry at G . C. E. (A/L) and a
certificate for successfully completing an Agriculture Course for one year or more in a recognized Government
Agricultural Institute.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
906
4.12 Course No. 12- Technical Studies (Sinhala)
                         Technical Studies  (Tamil)
4.12.1 Design and Technology :
4.12.1.1 Passed three subjects including one of the following components in Hard Technology at G . C. E. (A/L)
examination in Year 2010.
(i) Civil Technology,
(ii) Mechanical Technology,
(iii) Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology ;
or
4.12.1.2 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 ;
and
4.12.1.3 Pas sed 6 core subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language,
and one subject out of the following subjects. Construction Technology//Mechanical Technology/
Electric and Electronic Technology Dising and Technology.;
and
4.12.1.4 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is
relevant to the subject area, conducted by a Government approved Technical College/National
Apprentice Board/V ocational Training Authority/Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion
Department/Other Institutions Governed by Central/Provincial Ministeries.
4.12.2 Crafts and Arts :
4.12.2.1 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 ;
and
4.12.2.2 Passed six core subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language
and Craft and Art/Art and Craft) ;
and
4.12.2.3 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is relevant
to the subject area, conducted by a Government approved Technical College/National Apprentice
Board/Vocational Training Authority/Textile Industries Department/Industrial Development and
Enterprise Promotion Department/Other Institutions governed by Central/Provincial Ministries.
Note.– (i) Priority Order of selection –
y   Design and Technology :
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.1.1 and 4.12.1.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.1.2, 4.12.1.3 and 4.12.1.4.
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) and (b) are   not available, the applicants who have
passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2009 and 2008 will be considered as per (a) and (b)
mentioned in this Gazette notification.
y Those who anticipate to apply for the course of Design and Technology at National Colleges of
Education in 2015 under 4.12.1.1 should have completed minimum of ten months course mentioned
under 4.12.1.4.
y Craft and Art :
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.2.1, 4.12.2.2 and 4.12.2.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.2.1 and 4.12.2.2
(i) If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) is not available, the applicants who have passed
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2009 and 2008 will be considered as per (a). If further vacancies
are available the applicant who have passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2010, 2009 and 2008
as per (b) will be considered.
(ii) In the application, under Selection 16.1 it must be clearly indicate the applying  field of the course
whether the course as Design and Technology or Crafts and Art.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
907
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the
applications.
4.13 Course No. 13 – Art (Tamil)
4.13.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010  including Art ;
and
4.13.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including  Tamil Language, Mathematics and Art.
4.13.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Art/Art and Sculpture at G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2010.
4.14 Course No. 14 – Dance  (Bharatha)
4.14.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 including Bharatha Natyam. (Two subjects
including Bharatha Natyam for Sri Pada National College of Education).
4.14.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Bharatha
Natyam.
4.14.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Bharatha Natyam in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2010.
Note.– If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination held in Year 2010 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Bharatha Natyam
in G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.15 Course No. 15 – Music  (Carnatic)
4.15.1 Passed any three subjects including Carnatic Music at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 (Two passes
including Carnatic music for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.15.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Carnatic Music.
4.15.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Carnatic Music in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2010.
Note.–(I) If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination held in Year 2010 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Carnatic music
at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.16 Course No. 16 – Western Music  (English)
4.16.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 including Western Music  ;and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music and, with a Credit pass for English Language or an ordinary pass for English Literature ; or
4.16.2 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2010 ; and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music with a Credit pass in English language or an ordinary pass in English Literature. ; and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory and Practical) from a recognized institute approved by the Colleges of
Education Board. ; or
Passed Western Music at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination as an additional subject.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
908
Note : (i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the practical test conducted for Western Music
Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.16.1.
4.17 Course No. 17 – Drama and Theatre (Tamil)
4.17.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 including Drama and Theatre ; and
4.17.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Drama and
Theatre/Music/Art or Dance ;
4.17.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Drama and Theatre in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2010 ;
Note.– Priority will be given to the Applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
In case of sufficient applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G. C. E. (O/L) examination are not
available those who have passed Music/Art/Dance at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered.
4.18 Course No. 18 – Information Communication Technology (English) :
4.18.1 Passed in any three subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 (Two subjects for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ; and
4.18.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a Credit pass for
English language/an ordinary pass for English Literature and Credit pass for Mathematics.
Note : (i) Applicants who apply for this Course should sit for the Selection Test.
(ii) This test paper is an objective type of 1-1/2 hour question paper.
This test measures competency of the candidate in order to the basic concept of mathematical necessary to
follow the Information communication Technology.
(iii) Applicants shall sit for the Selection Test in Sinhala, Tamil or English medium of study.
(iv) Indicate the preferred medium under 1.0 para. of the application as S/T/E.
4.19 Course No. 19 – First Language  (Sinhala) :
4.19.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year  2010 in three subjects including a credit pass for Sinhala subject ;
and
4.19.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass in Sinhala Language.
4.20 Course No. 20 – First Language  (Tamil) :
4.20.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 in three subjects including a Credit pass for Tamil subject. (Two
passes including Tamil for Sri Pada National College of Education, Priority will be given to those who have a Credit
pass for Tamil Language at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination) ; and
4.20.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass in Tamil language.
4.21 Course No. 21 – Second National Language  (Sinhala) :
4.21.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Sinhala.  ; and
4.21.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Tamil as a Second National Language at
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Tamil issued by the Official
Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.22 Course No. 22 - Second National Language (Tamil)
4.22.1 P assed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Tamil ;  and
4.22.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Tamil Language.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
909
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Sinhala as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Sinhala issued by the Official
Languages Department/Optional Second National Language at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.23 Course No. 23 - Home Economics (Sinhala) :
Home Economics (Tamil) :
4.23.1 Passed three subjects including Home Economics at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2010 ; and
4.23.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics and a Credit pass
for science.
4.24 Course No. 24 - Social Science (Tamil) :
4.24.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2010 including one subject out of History, Political
Science and Geography. (Two passes in above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.24.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language and Mathematics and with a Credit
pass for Social Science and History.
4.25 Course No. 25 - Business and Accounting (Sinhala) :
Business and Accounting (Tamil)
4.25.1 Three passes in one sitting including Accounting and Business Studies at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held on 2010 ;
and
4.25.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a Credit pass in Business and Accounting/Entrepreneurship
Studies/Mathematics and with a Credit pass for English Language or an Ordinary pass for English Literature.
5.0 Number of the Course, Name of the Course and the Medium of the National Colleges of Education where each course will be
conducted and the respective number of the NCoE are given below :–
(Refer the chart carefully and identity the number of your course correctly before filling in the appilcation form. Your applic ation
will be computerized referring to your Course Number. Applications that are filled incorrectly will be rejected. No alteration is
permitted after your application is sent to the Branch of National Colleges of Education, Ministry of Education.)
(i) Column - Course Number ;
(ii) Column - Course Name ;
(iii) Column - NCoEEs where Sinhala medium courses are conducted ;
(iv) Column - NCoEEs where Tamil medium courses are conducted ;
(v) Column - NCoEEs where English medium courses are conducted.
(The numbers of the National College of Education are given within brackets.)
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
01 Primary Education (7) Sri Pada (6) Va vuniya
(11) Pulathisipura (7) Sri Pada
(12) Wayamba (8) Addalaichenai
(14) Ruhuna (15) Jaffna
(17) Hapitigam (16) Dharga Town
02 Science (2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
910
(2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
03 Mathematics (7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
04 Physical Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(3) Mahaweli
05 English (10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
06 Buddhism (4) Sariputta
(17) Hapitigam
07 Hinduism (6) Vavuniya
08 Islam (8) Addalaichenai
09 Catholicism/Christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
10 Special Education (17) Hapitigam (8) Addalaichenai
11 Agriculture and Food Technology (11) Pulathisipura (6) V avuniya
12 Technical Studies (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
13 Art (9) Batticaloa
14 Dance (Bharatha) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
15 Music (Carnatic) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
16 Western Music (3) Mahaweli
17 Drama and Theatre (15) Jaffna
(7) Sri Pada
18 Information Communication Technology (13) Ruwanpura
(16) Dhar ga Town
19 First Language (Sinhala) (12) Wayamba
(7) Sri Pada
20 First Language (Tamil) (8) Addalaichenai
21 Second Language (Sinhala) (3) Mahaweli
22 Second Language (Tamil) (3) Mahaweli
23 Home Economics (14) Ruhuna (16) Dharga Town
24 Social Science (7) Sri Pada
(9) Batticaloa
25 Business and Accounting (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
Note : (i) Only Tamil medium female applicants should apply to Dharga Town National College of Education.
(ii) Courses for Art, Dance (Baratha), Music (Carnatic), Drama and Theatre, Social Science will be conducted only in
Tamil Medium.
(iii) Courses for Western Music, Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in English Medium.
6.0 Procedure for Selection of Trainees for Year 2012 :
6.1 Basis of Selection :
6.1.1 The number of trainees to be admitted will be decided based on the teacher carder requirements in the school system
in the year 2015.
6.1.2 The basis of selection will be the Z score obtained at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2010. Student will be selected for
English/Information Communication Technology and Physical Education Courses on the achievements and performances
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
911
of Proficiency Selection . Tests/Sports in case of obtaining the same mark in Proficiency Test or Performance of
Sports, by two or more applicants, the results obtained at the G. C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting will be considered.
Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good pass, 02 marks for a Credit pass
and 01 mark for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total number of
marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects. Selection for all courses will be
30% on National Level and 70% on Difficult District Level except for Sri Pada National College of Education and
except for Primary Education Course offered National Colleges of Education. For the primary Education Corse,
selection will be 50% on National Level and 50% on Difficult District Level except for Sri Pada National College of
Education.
6.1.3 Applicants who prefer to follow English Medium Coruses Western Music and Information Communication Technology
and Sinhala/Tamil Medium Business and Accounting Course should qualify with a Credit pass in the English Language
or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature. Applicants for English Language Course should have obtained a very good
pass in English Language or Credit Pass in English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination including six core subjects
with Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics.
6.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the Practical Test conducted for Physical Education and Western
Music.
6.2 Difficult District Basis :
6.2.1 Admission for difficult districts will be made from applicants belonging to the 17 districts deemed as difficult based
on the distribution of educational facilities. (Matale, Mullativu, Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Vavuniya, Polonnaruwa,
Hambantota, Trincomalee, Badulla, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Moneragala, Kilinochchi, Ampara, Ratnapura, Mannar,
Puttalam).
Number to be admitted from each district will be decided for each course proportional to the number of students
appeared for G . C. E. (A/L) - 2010 Examination in all media in respective districts.
6.2.2 If the expected number from relevant difficult district is not available, vacancies will be filled from other districts.
6.2.3 Determination of Districts :
6.2.3.1 The district of any school applicant will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or major part of the Five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the last
day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination at
the first sitting.
6.2.3.2 If any private applicant had left the school after having previously sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination as a
school applicant, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school from which he/she had first
sat the above examination.
6.2.3.3 If any private applicant has left the school without having previously sat for the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or the major part of the five years (more than 2 1/2) years period ending on the
last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
at the first sitting.
6.2.3.4 If any private applicant has not studied in a School, he/she should confirm his/her district of residence with the
voter's list of Election Commissioners Office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.
6.3 Selection for Sri Pada National College of Education :
6.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese applicants.
6.3.1.1 On the required number of vacancies prevailing at State-schools in plantation districts, 35% of the candidates
will be appointed to the Moneragala, Badulla and Ratnapura Districts.
6.3.2 75% will be selected to Tamil Medium Courses while 25% will be selected to Sinhala Medium Courses.
6.3.3 Primary, Mathematics and Science Courses will be conducted in the Sinhala Medium whereas Information
Communication Technology Course, in the English Medium. Primary, Mathematics, Science, Music (Carnatic),

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
912
Dance (Bharatha) and First Language (Tamil), Social Science Courses will be conducted in the Tamil Medium. (These
courses will be offered at Sri Pada National College of Education.).
6.3.4 6.3.4.1 Applications for admission to Sri Pada National College of Education will be entertained only from children
whose parents are residenes employed in the plantation sector in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla,
Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and Kurunegala Plantation Districts. Priority is
given to children of the workers who work at present.
6.3.4.2 In case of insufficient number of children of the estate workers as applicants from the estate sector, applications
from those of the estate workers who worked at least 05 years after 2001 will be considered although they are
not employed at the moment. (Priority is given sequentially as 2010, 2009, 2008.)
6.3.4.3 In case of insufficient number of children, of the estate workers as applicants from the above districts for
Tamil Medium, applicants those who are not children of employees in the plantation sector but Indian Origin
live in above mentioned Districts, will be considered.
6.3.4.4 In case of insufficiency of qualified applicants from plantation districts, Tamil Medium applicants who are
from other districts with Indian Origin will be considered.
6.3.4.5 Tamil medium Indian Origin applicants those who live in Plantation Districts and other districts should have
passed in three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
6.3.4.6 In case of insufficient number of Sinhala Medium applicants from Plantation Districts, the rest of the
vacancies will be filled from those who applied for the same course in other National Colleges of Education.
The basis of the selection will be the Z-score.
6.3.5 At the interview the children of the employees in the State and Private Sector Estate Companies should submit a letter
from the Estate Superintendent relating to service (indicating employee’s period of service) that he is permanently
serving for the past period of 05 years or more/retirement from the plantation sector (indicating year and date clearly).
Candidate’s letter agreeing to serve a period of ten (10) years continuously in the schools in the plantation sector after
the training and letters to prove that deductions are being done for the Employees Provident Fund including Registration
Numbers. Paragraph 6.2.2 will be applied for the applicants of Sri Pada National College of Education when deciding
district of applicants.
6.3.6 In selection, at least one applicant will be considered for each relevant district.
Note : In the case of an applicant having an Indian Tamil Origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium will be considered
for the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil Origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had studied in Tamil
Medium will be considered for the Sinhala medium percentage.
7.0 Other Matters related to Selection :
7.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm their eligibility
on the date of conducting the interview. A number of applicants more than the number of vacancies will be called for the
interview.
7.2 Applicants who fail to submit the originals of all certificates will not be considered.
7.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the
expected level in the Course and the Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/she should be subjected to a special
interview and after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board the decision taken by the Board should
be implemented.
7.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the relevant College of Education within 03 days from the due date, he/ she
will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled according to the merit
order. Appeals from the applicants who fails to register within 03 days from the due date will strictly not be considered.
7.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to a College of Education to
ascertain whether they are physcially and mentally fit for service in any part of the island.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
913
7.6 After the admission to any Course/National College of Education permission will not be granted to change such Course/
College of Education. If a sufficient number of applicants are not available for a particular Course the applicants will be
transferred to the nearest College of Education where such Courses are conducted.
7.7 In selecting applicants for a Course, if the number of applicants who have obtained equivalent Z Score at the G. C. E. (A/L)
is in excess of the number of vacancies available, the results obtained by the applicants at the G . C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting
will be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good pass, 02 marks for
a Credit pass and 01 mark for an ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total number
of marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
8.0 Persons who are not eligible to apply or to get admitted :
8.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government or in Private Schools.
8.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a Government School.
8.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course in a College of Education.
8.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree Course in a University or University Institute or any other Higher
Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirement. (After publishing the gazette notification students who
were/are withdrawn the registration will not be eligible to apply/to get admitted).
8.5 Those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on disciplinary ground.
9.0 Conditions applicable for Training :
9.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period consists of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year internship training while being attached to a school. Attendance of a student
teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations at the end of the second year.
9.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests held in the first and the second year, Internal Test conducted at th e
end of the second year and the external final examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Except, those who
follow English Courses all those who follow other Courses should pass in the English subject at the above examinations.
Applications should be forwarded only by those who agree to the above conditions.
9.3 During the period of two years residential training a trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities to the value of
Rs. 2,500 per month for ten months in a year. During the Internship year a monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000 will be paid for
ten months. Other expenses for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
9.4 During the period of training, a trainee will not be allowed to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in a
University, University Institution or other Higher Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is treated as the entry requirement.
If it is proved that a trainee had followed such a Course amount of the Bond and Agreement Rs. 500,000 incurred for him/
her will be surcharged and the trainee will be removed from the Course.
9.5 The clergy of any religion should make Bond and agreement with the Ministry of Education on at least 5 years service
without being disrobed. If the trainees get married during the period of training their studentship will be cancelled.
9.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during the period of
training he will be removed from training. Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the
first year of academic training or found to be following any other Course in an Institute as indicated at 9.4 they will be
removed from the Course. Regarding these matters the decision made by the Colleges of Education Board shall be the final
decision.
9.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President of the College
during the period of training or by the Principal of the school during the Internship period the trainee will be referred to a Special
Interview Board. A final decision will be taken after the submission of This report to the Colleges of Education Board.
9.8 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the trainees who will successfully complete the Training Course. Course
Work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed during
the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
914
9.9 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be considered for grant of appointments as teachers based on the
availability of vacancies on Education Zonal Level in difficult districts.
9.9.1 In future priority will be given to those who complete this Training Course in awarding teaching appointments for
Government Schools. Therefore, the candidates who are invited for the interviews for selecting to the above Course
should appear for the interview only if would agree to the above conditions.
9.9.2 Priority is given to those who will follow these training courses in appointing teachers to Government Schools.
Therefore, candidates should appear for the interviews if only they can adhere to the conditions mentioned above.
9.9.3 Applicants who receive their training under the above conditions should enter into Bond and Agreement with the
Secretary of the Ministry of Education that they will serve under the Ministry of Education for a minimum period
of five (5) years from the date of appointment in the district selected for National College of Education they have
been appointed. The Education Zone for which the appointment has been given will not be changed for any reason.
9.10 Applicants who get registered in a National College of Education should sign a Bond and Agreement for Rs. 500,000 for the
cost to be incurred for providing training and for supply of infrastructure facilities. A student who leave the Course half way
or who fail to serve for five years under the Government will be subjected to a condition for paying the total amount in the
Bond and Agreement to the Government.
9.11 If any applicant claims to change the selected National College of Education on medical/personal reasons will not be eligible
for admission.
9.12 All educational and other qualifications should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for applications.
10.0 Application :
10.1 An applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 courses. If applied for the same course in two media, it is considered as applied
for two courses. Such applicant can apply only for one more course. Buddhist monks should apply for the Course of
Buddhism whereas the clergy of Christianity, Hinduism and Islam for their respective courses of religions.
10.2 An applicant can enclose only one application and two of its certified copies in the same envelope. If any applicant has
submitted applications other than the above mentioned application and the two certified copies all the applications will be
rejected.
10.3 Application should be prepared according to the Specimen Form and instructions given below.
10.4 Applications should be sent under Registered Post and addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), Colleges of
Education Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before 15.07.2011.
Specimen of the envelope in which the application is enclosed should be as follows :
Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education 2012
Course Number indicated as first preference .......... Medium ................
Apply to the Sri Pada National College of Education Yes/No.
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education),
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(It is stressed that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations/National Colleges of Education).
10.5 The postal receipt of registration issued in forwarding the application and a photo copy of the application should be sent
in all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals. Hence, these documents should be kept with the candidate.
10.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, Year and Course Number as well as the incomplete and
informal applications will be rejected.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
915
10.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
10.8 No other document should be attached to the application.
10.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate, the candidate wil l be
dismissed from service and he will be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
11.0 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges of
Education Board will be the final decision.
12.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala Text shall
prevail.
H. M. GUNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
07th June, 2011.
INSTRUCTIONS    FOR    THE    PREPARATION    OF    APPLICATION    FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only three courses to which you are eligible. Submit only one application form
with two of its photocopies enclosed in one envelope. (School applicants should get the photo copies certified by the Principal
while the private applicants should get them certified by a Justice of the Peace).
2.0 Application should be prepared in a (legal) F5 size white paper (21.8 x 33c.m.) in conformity with the specimen form. Paragraphs
1.0 to 9.5 should be included in the first page. In places where information has to be given in a cage, mark “x” in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared based on the
information given from 1.0 to 9.5 in the first page. Specially the Course Number, Index Number of G . C. E. (A/L) and Z Score
should be confirmed as accurate. Please note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and ille gible
and erroneous writing.
4.0 The information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical Education Course,
Paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course,
Paragraph 14.0 for Catholicism /Christianity Course,
Paragraph 15.0 for Hinduism/Islam Course,
Paragraph 16.0 for Technological Studies and Paragraph 17.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully in filling the
application. The information specified will not be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the districts are indicated below  :
Colombo – 01 Hambantota – 09 Amparai – 17
Gampaha – 02 Jaffna – 10 Puttalam – 18
Kalutara – 03 Kilinochchi – 11 Kurunegala – 19
Matale – 04 Mannar – 12 Anuradhapura – 20
Kandy – 05 Mullativu – 13 Polonnaruwa – 21
Nuwara Eliya – 06 Vavuniya – 14 Badulla – 22
Galle – 07 Trincomalee – 15 Moneragala – 23
Matara – 08 Batticaloa – 16 Kegalle – 24
Ratnapura – 25
6.0 Symbol for each Medium : Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
916
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2012
(An applicant should submit only one application and two certified photocopies of the application enclosed in one envelope. Applications
which are not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in the application sho uld be
included in the first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.5).
1.0
Preference Course College Course Medium Course Number (18) and the medium of
Number Number S/T/E the examination (S/T/E)
1
2
3
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letters) Example : PERERA R. C.
Mr./Miss :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential address :
  In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para. 6.2.3 in Gazette Notification :
District :–––––––––––. District No.
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month  Date
5.2 National Identity Card No.
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female   2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G. C. E. (A/L) in Year 2010 :
8.1 Y ear Medium of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.2 Index No.
8.3 Z score                  . It Z is minus indicate M
8.4 Details of results subject wise
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for English and English medium Courses at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature Subject No.
Year :
Index No.
9.2 Are you applying to Sri Pada National College of Education ? Y es 1 No 2

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
917
9.3 If yes indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking ( ‘x’ in the relevant cage) :
Yes 1 N o 2
9.4 Total marks included for section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil
9.5 9.5.1.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Sinhala) Medium Courses at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Tamil) : Subject No. :
9.5.1.2 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Tamil) Medium Courses at the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Sinhala) : Subject No. :
10.0 If you have sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2010, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 No. of sittings for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
11.0 Details of G . C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the Clause 4.4.3 in Para. 4.4 of the Gazette Notification :
(Only those who apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the
Clauses in 4.4.3 when you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports/competency will be sufficient.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grate as in 4.4.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 9.4 in the first page of this application.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
918
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-International/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.4.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L), Grade          Marks
Total Marks
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final Examination according to 4.6 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha P irivena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Year
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject 1 1 1
Grade 2 2 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11
14.0 The applicant of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para. 4.9 of the Gazette Notification.
Duration
Name of  the Course/Certificate
From  To Grade
14.1 Degree in Theology (BTH)
14.2 Philosophy Certificate (BPH) conducted by the National and Seminary
14.3 Dharmachariya Certificate conducted by the National Catechetical center
14.4 Three year religious education course in Deva Dharma Niketanaya
14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that
the candidate has successfully completed the study of  the religious
education and training course (Novitiate) or become a member of the clergy
14.6 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Theological
College Pilimatalawa
 14.7 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge
conducted by National Christian Council
14.8 Certificate issued by relevant Bishop be a religious Teacher of Catholicism
or Christianity
14.9 Obtained a pass in G. C. E. (A/L) Christianity subjects

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
919
15.0 The applicants of Hinduism (4.7)/Islam (4.8) should fill the necessary particulars according to secretions 4.7 and 4.8 of the Gazette
Notification :
Name of the Course Duration V alid Date of the Certificate
16.0 The applicants of Technical Studies (4.12) should fill the necessary particulars according to the Gazette Notification.
16.1 In the application clearly indicate the applying field of the course whether the course as Design and T echnology or Crafts
and Art :––––––––.
16.2 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technical Course in a recognized Government Institute and hope to
follow the Technical Skills Course Para. 4.12.1.4/4.12.2.3 should fill in the following table :
Name of the Number and Date Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical Registration in conducted the completed the course
Course Government Course
17.0 Applicants for the Western Music according in terms of para. 4.16.1 and 4.16.2 in the Gazette Notification should include relevant
particulars :
Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed
18.0 Declaration of the applicant :
(i) I have forwarded only one application and two photo copies of it. I am aware that all my applications will be rejected if I
send more than one application.
(ii) I certify that the particulars given by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given by me in this application
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be discontinued if detect ed
after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
19.0 Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants :
I certify that this applicant sat G . C. E. (O/L) examination and G. C. E. (A/L) examination/Pracheena Preliminary Final examination
as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particular given above by the applicant are correct according to my knowledge and

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
920
that the Aggregate marks/Z-Score ...................... (writing words) obtain by the applicant at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examinati on in the
year ...................... is according to the official sheets issued by the Commissioner-General of Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Name and address of School/Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
20.0 Declaration in respect of private applicants :
I certify that the aggregate marks/Z-Score obtained by me in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in the year ............ is ....... ...... (write
in words) according to the Official result sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, is ....................... .
–––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Justice of the Peace.
Name :–––––––––––,
Official Frank :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–488
––––––––––––––––
SPECIAL OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO FILL THE VACANCIES IN CLASS
III OF  SRI LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE FOR
NORTH AND EAST PROVINCES - 2011
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens of
Sri Lanka for the Special open Competitive examination for
recruitment to fill the vacancies in class III of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service for North and East Provinces.
1. In this notice “Secretary” means the “Secretary to the
Ministry of Public Administration and Home affairs”
“Service” means the “Sri Lanka Administrative Service”.
2. Date of Examination. – This examination will be held in
Colombo in October 2011 by Commissioner General of
Examinations. The Secretary reserves the right to
postpone or cancel this examination subject to
instructions given by the Public Service Commission/
Cabinet of Ministers.
Written Examination .– The Examination will consist of the
following question papers.
(i) General Intelligence,
(ii) Essay and Precis,
(iii) General Knowledge,
(iv) Aptitude for Management.
Oral Test.– The Secretary will decide the date for interview for
the candidates who sat for all the papers in the written examination
and obtained a higher aggregate of marks as determined by the
Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers as sufficient.
3. Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of
appointment will be determined as per the orders of the Public
Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers. Public Service
Commission/Cabinet of Ministers shall reserve the powers to fill a
certain number of vacancies or to refrain from filling all the number
of vacancies.
4. Conditions  of Service :- A selected candidate will be appointed
to Class III of the Service on the general conditions governing
appointments in the Public Service and on the terms and conditions
set out in the Minute of the Service dated 28th October, 2005,
(Published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 of 14th November, 2005) and
subject  to any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the
Minute.
4.1 Number of the vacancies in North and East Provinces
filled by this examination is 46.
4.2 Selected candidates are bounded to serve in North and
East provinces for a minimum period of 10 years from
the date of appointment. If they fail to do so, action
shall be taken to terminate their service.
4.3 Appointments of the candidates, who fail to assume
duties of the post awarded to him on due date/refuse or

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
921
avoid to assume duties in a post or in an area is liable to
be cancelled.
4.4. The officers recruited by the special examination are
required to pass the Sinhala  language test within 3 years
in addition to the first efficiency bar prescribed for officers
in Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
5. Structure and salary scale per month  :
Special Grade : Rs. 42,390 - 12 x 1310 - Rs. 58,110
Class I Rs. 36,755 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555
Class II Rs. 30,175  - 8 x 790 - Rs. 35,705
Class III Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - Rs.29,385
(Whilst the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed
within 03 years from the date of appointment and 2nd Efficiency
Bar Examination within 06 years from the date of appointment,
proficiency of the second official language should be achieved within
05 years from the date of appointment in terms of the provisions of
Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.)
The appointments through this examination will be made to the
Class III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
6. Health and Character.–  A candidate must satisfy the Secretary
that he is duly qualified in respect of health and that he has an
excellent moral character. He/she must possess good eye sight and
be physically fit for service in any part of the island. Selected
candidates will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
7. Eligibility :- A candidate appearing for this must :-
(i) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Have obtained a degree from a university recognized by
the University Grants Commission ;
(a) The effective date of the certificate of degree should
be 25.07.2011 or a date prior to that.
(iii) have followed the degree in Tamil medium or have studied
Tamil language as a subject of the degree or have sat for
the Subject of Tamil Language at G. C. E. (A/L) ;
(iv) Not have reached 28 years of age as at 25.07.2011 ;
(v) have a sound moral character and be physically fit ;
(vi) no person ordained in any religious sect shall be
permitted to sit this examination.
Note :-
(i) No person is allowed to sit the competitive
examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka
Administrative service for more than two sittings as
per 5(1) or 5(2) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service
Minute.
(ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination should
have been completed in every aspect by 25.07.2011
8. Examination Fee  :- The fee is Rs.1,000. It should be paid
before the closing date of  applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13.
The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat/Divisional
Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application
form. This fee is non -refundable, it is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidates.
9. Method of Application :-
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by
the candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A 4)
using both sides. It should be specially noted that the
application forms should be prepared that cages 1.0 to
2.0 apper on the first side of the paper and rest of the
cages apper in the other side of the paper. Applications
that do not comply with the specimen and that are not
completed in every aspect, shall be rejected without
notice. (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application with candidate). It is the responsibility of
the candidate to make sure that the application form
perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen given
in the examination notice as otherwise the application
may be rejected.
(b) The application should be filled correctly by the candidate
himself as per the instructions.
(c) The completed application form for the examination
should be sent by registered post to reach the
Commissioner - General of Exmainations, P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo on or before 25.07.2011. The words “Special
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to fill
the vacancies in class III of  Sri Lanka Administrative
Service for North and East Provinces - 2011” should be
clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope enclosing the application. Any application
received after the closing date will not be accepted. When
preparing the application, it is essential to mention the
name of examination in Tamil language as well as, in English
language.
(d) Candidate’s signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-
Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces, and officer holding a gazetted post in the Police
Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in public
service whose annual inital salary is more than Rs.
240,360.
(e) Any application, which is not completd in every aspect,
is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application
has been lost or delayed in post will be considered.
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. A notice
will be published in the newspapers by the Department

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
922
of Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to
applicants. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps should
b taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be
advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of
calling the Department of Examination i. e. a certified
photocopy of the application form and the receipt kept
at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of
applicants outside colombo, letter of request furnishing a
fax number to which the admission cards should be sent.
10. Admission to the Examination :-
(a) The Commissioner  - General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all persons whose applications have
been received. A candidate presenting himself for the
examination must produce his admission card to the
supervisor of the examination center. A candidate who
fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted
to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his signature
attested in advance and hand over the admission card to
the supervisor on the first day he presents himself for the
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates
is  published on this gazette. Candidates are subjected to
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on conducting the examination
and they are liable to be subjected to a punishment
imposed by him/her for breach of these rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a candidate does
not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
11. Identity of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will only be accepted :
(a) National identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
12. Penalty for furnishing False Information .– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any   stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found
that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that
they are false, or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material
fact, he/she will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
13. Any Matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the  Secretary subject to the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
14. Scheme of Examination - Medium of Examination.
(a) The Examination will be held only in Tamil Medium
15. Method of Selection :- A written examination in the following
subjects :-
(i) General Intelligence - Duration : 1 hour - 100 marks
(ii) Essay and Precis - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iii) General Knowledge - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iv) Aptitude for Management - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
Candidates should sit all the question papers.
Oral Test (25 Marks)
Candidates who have sat all the question papers of the written
exam and qualified themselves shall be called for the oral test. Only
the candidates who have scored 40% of marks or above for each of
the papers and scored an aggregate of marks above the level
determined as sufficient by the Public  Service Commission/Cabinet
of Ministers according to the number of vacancies existing shall be
called for the interview. if there are a sufficient number of candidates
who possess above qualifications, a number equivalent to twice the
number of vacancies shall be called for the oral test. (The scheme of
allocating marks shall be approved by the Appointing Authority/
Public Service Commission at the early stage of recruitment.)
16. The selection for appointment will be made in order merit
from among those who have sat the written examination, presented
themselves for the interview and scored the highest aggregate of
marks. (Facing the interview should not necessarily mean that he or
she has fulfilled requisite qualifications to receive an appointment)
17. The Number of appointments shall be decided by the Public
Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
18. Syllabus :-
(i) General Intelligence (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks)
To assess the candidate's capacity for comprehension,
qualification and perception of time space relations by
measuring the candidate's inferences and responses to
problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial
contexts. (The question paper will consist of multiple
choice questions and questions and questions for short
answers)
(ii) Essay and Precis (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks)
To test the candidate's capacity for conceptualization,
critcal reasoning and his judgmental abilities in the
development organization and presentation of ideas and
information on a topic/theme chosen by the candidate
from a given set of topics/themes, and the ability to

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
923
comprehend a fairly complex passage, a peice of writing
or a memorandum and express the salient ideas thereof
concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate's own
words.
(iii) General knowledge (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks)
To test the candidate's awareness and understanding of
the social, cultural, educational, scientific, political,
economic and any other relevant factors operating at the
National, Regional and Global environment or
organizations as well as of our society. (The question
paper will consist of multiple choice questions and
questions for short answers)
(iv) Aptitude for Management (Duration  2 hours - 100 marks)
This paper is designed to assess the candidate's aptitude
for sound management, as reflected in the candidate's
responses to problems and situations requiring diagnosis
and decision making, dealing with interpersonal relations,
communicating and developing policy and strategy and
managing self. (The question paper will consist of multiple
choice questions and questions for short answers)
 On the order of the Cabinet of Ministers.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
06th June, 2010.
Specimen Form of Application
(For Office use only)
SPECIAL OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO FILL THE V ACANCIES IN CLASS III
OF SRI LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE FOR NORTH
AND EAST PROVINCES - 2011
APPLICA TION
1.0 Personal Information : Eg :- SILV A A. B.
1.1 Name with initials (in English block capitals) :–––––.
1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Tamil) :––––––––.
1.4 Permanent address : (admission card will be posted to
this address) (In English block capitals) :––––––––.
1.5 Permanent address (in Tamil) :––––––––.
1.6 Telephone Number :
1.7 Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.8 Civil Status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.9 Ethnic Group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil -3)
Muslim, 4, Other -5)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.10 National identity card No. :
1.11 Date of birth :
Date :              Month :          Year :
1.12 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
2.0 (i) State the years in which you sat any previous
examinations for recruitment to the Sri Lanka
administrative Service :
(a)................. (b).................... (c).................
3.0 The year in which the canidadate sat the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination :
Index No. :––––––––.
Subject Pass
(i) Effective date of the Degree :––––––––.
(Please read para 7 (ii) of the notification carefully to see
whether you are qualified in this respect)
(ii) University/Insitute :––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number :––––––––.
(iv) Internal/External :––––––––.
(v) Degree :––––––––.
(vi) Language Medium :––––––––.
(viii) Subjects :––––––––.
(viii) Class :––––––––.
(ix) Upper/Lower :––––––––.
(x) Index Number :––––––––.
(xi) Language medium of Examination :––––––––.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2011
924
5.0 Paste the Cash receipt properly here :
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
6.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is ture to the best of
my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the receipt
No............... dated............... being the payment of the examination
fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior
to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner -
General of Examinations as conducting of the exam.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
7.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 9 (d) of the
Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certify that.............. (Full name) who submits this
application is known to me personally, that he/she has paid the
prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein.
He/she placed his/her signature in my presence on.....................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Singanture.
Date :––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the singanature :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
06-523                                                                                   
           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.