

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2451$11 - 2025 wf.daia;= ui 26 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2025.08.26
No. 2451/11  -  TUESDAY,   26  AUGUST ,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A- G 45246 - 05 (08/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. D.-B. 5/2025
SRI  LANKA  ELECTRICITY  ACT,  N o. 36  OF  2024
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Energy under Section 50 of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 36 of 2024, read 
with Paragraphs (f) of subsection (3) of Section 18 of that Act.
 Punya Sri Kumara Jayakodi,
 Minister of Energy.
Colombo,
26th August, 2025.
Regulations
 1. These Regulations may be cited as the Sri Lanka Energy  Electricity (Terms and Conditions of V oluntary 
Retirement Scheme) Regulations of 2025.
 2. These Regulations shall  apply to every officer and servant (hereinafter referred to as the “employee”) of the 
Ceylon Electricity Board who do not opt to be assigned to a successor company and be entitled to voluntary retirement under 
a voluntary retirement scheme (hereinafter referred to as the “voluntary retirement scheme”) referred to in the provisions of 
Paragraph (f) of subsection (3) of Section 18 of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No.36 of 2024. 
 3. Any employee who is entitled to  voluntary retirement under regulation 2 may make an application substantially 
in the form specified in the form specified in the Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.08.2025
2A
4. (1)  The compensation payable under the voluntary retirement scheme, to the following categories of
employees who are serving under the permanent cader of the Ceylon Electricity Board shall be as follows :-
(a) employees who count ten years or more than ten years of service -
(i) 2.0 months salary for every twelve months of past service; and
(ii) 1.5 months salary for every twelve months of service foregone;
(b) employees who count less than ten years of service -
(i) 5.0 months salary for every twelve months of past service; and
(ii) no payment shall be made for the  service foregone;
(2) The compensation specified in sub regulation (1) shall be paid subject to a minimum limit of Rupees Nine
hundred Thousand and maximum limit of  Rupees five million.
5. The compensation payable to the employees who are not categorized as employees serving under 
the permanent cader of the Ceylon Electricity Board excluding the employees serving under the contractual agreements, 
shall be as follows :-
(a) 2.0 months salary for every twelve months of past service;
(b) minimum compensation shall be twelve months salary; and
(c) method of calculation of compensation (22 x daily wage x number of months).
6. The compensation payable under regulation 4 or regulation 5 shall be calculated on the basis of monthly
salary taken into account in calculating the amount of the Provident Fund at the time of retirement excluding the interim  
and other allowances.
7. In addition to the compensation, all statutory payments shall be made in terms of the provisions of the relevant
Acts.
8. The employees subject to disciplinary inquiries or whose status are in question in any tribunal shall not be
eligible to apply for the voluntary retirement under these regulations. 
9. All outstanding dues from respective employees shall be recovered from the compensation payable under
regulation 4 or regulation 5.
10. Any employee who voluntary retires under the voluntary retirement scheme and is payable with the
compensation specified under these regulations shall not be employed in any successor company under any circumstance.   

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.08.2025
3A
SCHEDULE 
 (Regulation 3)
Application form for Voluntary Retirement Scheme
To be filled by the employee.
 1. Name of the employee :
 2. NIC No. :
 3. PF No. :
 4. Designation :
 5. Date of Birth : 
 
 6. Date of joining the Ceylon Electricity Board (excluding temprorary period if any) : 
 7. Number of completed years of srevice in Ceylon Electricity Board :
 
 8. Date of attending of optional retirement :
 9. I hereby  certify -
 (a) that the information given above is complete and true.
 (b) that I hereby authorize the ............(name of the entity) to recover and adjust all loans/ dues ect.,
      payable by me whatever kind of nature.
 (c)  that I agree that in case any of the aforesaid statement is found to be untrue, the payment made to me by  the  
................ (name of the entity), under this scheme, shall be recoverable from me without prejudice to any action 
that may be taken against me by the ............ (name of the entity).
 (d)  that I agree to voluntary retire from the service of ............(name of the entity) according to the terms and 
conditions prescribed in the Sri Lanka Electricity (Terms and Conditions of V oluntary Retirement Scheme) 
Regulations of 2025. 
      
..........................................
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :
EOG - 08 - 0285
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.