

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –12.04.2017
551
wxl 2015 - 2017 wfm%a,a ui 12 jeks nÞod - 2017'04'12
No. 2015 -  WEDNESDAY ,  APRIL  12,  2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 552
By-Laws ...   —
Posts - Vacant ...   553
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
551
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from the
date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  05th May, 2017  should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st April, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
G
ANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January,  2017.
 B 081161 – 5403 (2017/04)
Note .- Cancer Care Trust   (Incorporation)  Bill is published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  of April 07, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.04.2017
552
NORTHWESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notice published under Chapter II 5(I) of Cemeteries and Burial Grounds Ordinance No. 57 of 1946
I, Dasanayaka Gunarathna Basnayaka Mudiyanselage Dharmasiri Dasanayaka, the Minister of Local Government at the
Provincial Council, hereby declare the land mentioned in Schedule below, situated in the area of Narammala Pradeshiya
Sabha of Kurunegala District in Northwestern Province in accordance with the Section 5(1), Chapter II of Cemeteries and
Burial Grounds Ordinance No. 57 of 1946 which should be read with Para (A), Sub Section (II) of Section two of the
Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989, as a cemetery for burials or cremations.
D
ASANAYAKA G UNARATHNA B ASNAY AKA M UDIYANSELAGE D HARMASIRI D ASANAYAKA,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Engineering Services,
Law and Order, Economic Development in Local Government and
Provincial Administration, Electricity and Energy, Environment,
Water Supply and Drainage and Tourism of Northwestern Province.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Kurunegala.
01st March 2017.
SCHEDULE 01
The Government Land named Aliya Wetichchahena located in Pahala Medagoda, Udukahakorale North in Dambadeni
Hathpaththuwa Divisional Revenue Division in Kurunegala District and in which the extent has been calculated as Two
Roods and Twenty One Perches (0A.,2R.21P .) and bounded on the West by T. P. 281971, West by T. B. 281971 and all other
directions by T. P. T. 23049, and indicated as Plot of Land No. 16 in the final village plan No. 232 of the field sheet
No. 1,18/12/20 which is prepared by the Surveyor General and kept under his custody (Graph bearing No. V . 2521)..................
04-434/1
Provincial Council Notifications
NORTHWESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notice published under Chapter II 5(I) of Cemeteries and Burial Grounds Ordinance No. 57 of 1946
I, Dasanayaka Gunarathna Basnayaka Mudiyanselage Dharmasiri Dasanayaka, the Minister of Local Government at the
Provincial Council, hereby declare the land mentioned in Schedule below, situated in the area of Narammala Pradeshiya
Sabha of Kurunegala District in Northwestern Province in accordance with the Section 5(1), Chapter II of Cemeteries and

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –12.04.2017
553
Examinations, Results of Examinations, & c.
Burial Grounds Ordinance No. 57 of 1946 which should be read with Para (A), Sub Section (II) of Section two of the
Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, as a cemetery for burials or cremations.
DASANAY AKA G UNARATHNA B ASNAY AKA M UDIYANSELAGE D HARMASIRI D ASANAYAKA,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Engineering Services,
Law and Order, Economic Development in Local Government and
Provincial Administration, electricity and Energy, Environment,
Water Supply and Drainage and Tourism of Northwestern Province.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Kurunegala.
01st March 2017.
SCHEDULE 01
The land named Peellakanda Watta with the extent of 01 Rood and 33.1 Perches lying in Walakumbura village of Welikumbura
Grama Niladhari Division in Udukaha Uthuru Koralaya in Dambadeni Hathpaththuwa of the Divisional Secretary’s Division
Narammala Kurunegala District in Northwestern Province, indicated in the Plan No. 9043 dated 02nd March, 2016 pre-
pared by   Licensed Surveyor Mr. P . A. N. Gunasiri from the land mentioned in Plan No. 1290 dated 18th June, 1956 pepared
by the Licensed Surveyor J. Vincent Perera bounded on the North by land owned by R. P. Wimal Pushpakumara, East and
South by the Pradeshiya Sabha road running from houses to the main road, West by the land owned by W. G. Indika Prasangith
Dayaratne.
04-434/2
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION  OF  CENTRAL  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Recruitment to the posts of Technological Service (Civil/ Mechanical/ Electrical/ Draughtsman) to
Central Provincial Public Service - 2016
APPLICATIONS are called from both male and female candidates who residing within Central Province and possess
required qualifications specified in this notification to fill the vacancies in Technological Service (Civil/ Mechanical/
Electrical/ Draughtsman) Grade III and Training Grade of Central Provincial Public Service.
01. General conditions :
1.1 Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
1.2 Shall be of excellent character
1.3 Should possess a continuous permanent residence for a period of not less than 03 years within Central Province
by the closing date of application  (permanent residence of spouse will be considered when the applicant
having married a person holding more than 03 years of permanent residence within Central Province)
1.4 Shall be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications (the
maximum age limit is inapplicable to those already in Central Provincial Public Service)
1.5 Should possess the adequate physical and mental fitness required to serve in any area of Central Province and
discharge duties of the post
1.6 No person who is ordained in any religious order shall become eligible to sit the examination

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.04.2017
554
02. Educational and Professional Qualifications
(Shall have completed all educational qualifications and technological qualifications as at 15.05.2017)
Educational Qualifications
Post Professional Qualifications
            G .C.E. (O/L) G .C.E. (A/L)
             Examination Examination
Central
Provincial
Technological
Service
(Civil/
Mechanical/
Electrical/
Draughtsman)
Grade III
A pass in G . C. E.
(O/L)  Examination
in 06 (six) subjects
with credit passes
for Sinhala/ Tamil/
English   Language,
Science,
Mathematics and
one more subject,
at one sitting
A pass in G . C. E.
(A/L)  examination
 in three subjects
in Mathematics/
Technology stream,
including two subjects
related to the field at
one sitting
(Except General
English and General
Question Paper)
*note -  applicants shall have obtained
Technological Diploma Certificate relevant to
post apply in Civil/ Electrical/ Mechanical/
Draughtsman
1. National Diploma in Technology awarded by
the University of Moratuwa or Hardy
Technical College Ampara
or
2. National Diploma in Engineering awarded by
the National Apprenticeship and Industrial
Training Authority (NAITA)
.or
3. Higher National Diploma in Engineering
awarded by the Ministry of Education and
Higher Education.
or
4. Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open
University of Sri Lanka.
or
5. Successful completion of part I of the
Engineering examination conducted by the
Sri Lanka Institute of Engineers.
or
Completion of level 6 of   National
V ocational Qualification (NVQ), related to
the field;
or
6. Any other Technological qualifications
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission as being equivalent
in each and every way to the Technological
qualifications mentioned above after
obtaining views of the Institutions such as
Ministry of Higher Education and other
Institutions by which the above certificates
issued.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –12.04.2017
555
Central
Provincial
Technological
Service (Civil/
Mechanical/
Electrical/
Draughtsman)
Training Grade:
(Training Period
of One Year)
A pass in G . C. E.
(O/L)  Examination
in 06 (six) subjects
with Credit passes
for Sinhala/ Tamil/
English   Language,
Science,Mathematics
and  one more
subject, at one
sitting
A pass in G . C. E.
(A/L)  examination
 in three subjects
in Mathematics/
Technology stream,
including two subjects
related to the field at one
sitting  (Except
 General English and
General Question Paper)
Educational Qualifications
Post Professional Qualifications
            G .C.E. (O/L) G .C.E. (A/L)
             Examination Examination
03. Salary scale  :
The posts of Technological Service (Civil/ Mechanical/ Electrical/ Draughtsman) Grade III and Training Grade  of
Central Provincial Public Service are entitled for the salary scale of MN 3 -2016 which is  Rs. 31,040 - 10 x445-
11 x 660- 10 x 730- 10x 750- Rs. 57,500/- as per Public Administration Circular No. 03 /2106. Salary will be paid
as per provisions indicated in Schedule II of the said circular.
Allowances for Training Grade - as per provisions indicated in Schedule V-19 of P.A. Circular No. 03/2016
1
st year - Rs. 18, 728.00
1. Shall have possessed National
Certificate in Technology, following
successfully a course in a field relevant
to the post, from a Technical College
recognized by Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission (Ex: National
Certificate in Technology: Civil/
Electrical/Mechanical)
or
2. Shall have possessed the relevant
certificate, successfully following a full
time course of one year in
Draftsmanship from a Technical
College recognized Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission
or
3. Shall have possessed the relevant
certificate, successfully following the
National Certificate Course for
Industrial Technicians in a field relevant
to the post from a Technical College
recognized by the Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission
or
4. Shall have possessed any other
Technological qualifications recognized
by Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission as being equivalent in each
and every way to the Technological
qualifications mentioned above after
obtaining views of the Institutions such
as Ministry of Higher Education and
other Institutions by which the above
certificates issued.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.04.2017
556
04. Terms of Engagement :
Terms of Engagement determined by the relevant scheme of recruitment approved by the Central Provincial Public
Service Commission.
05. Mode of recruitment :
Vacancies shall be filled on district population ratio as per P.A. Circular 15/90. Central Provincial Public Service
Commission shall conduct a competitive examination and the candidates obtaining highest marks will be subjected
to an interview for selection of suitable candidates. No marks will be assigned at the interview. Recruitment will be
made under the merit of marks obtained in the examination by the candidates. A minimum of 40% marks should be
obtained for each question paper.
06. Conditions of recruitment :
6.1.  This post is permanent and pensionable.
6.2. Appointment is subject to the provisions in the public P.A. circular 01/2014 issued on Implementation of
Official Language Policy.
6.3. Should serve minimum of 05 years within Central Province once you call upon appointment, not eligible to
get transfer and should have serve Minimum of 03 years in the institution of your first appointment.
07.  Method of application :
9.1. A non-refundable examination fee of Rs. 600  should be credited to the Central Provincial Chief Secretary’s
revenue Head 20-03-02-13. This fee could be paid to any Divisional Secretary office in Central Province
and the receipt issued should be firmly affixed to the application. The application without receipt will be
rejected. The paid examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
9.2. Applications should be prepared using both side of a A4 size paper, in accordance with the specimen
application form at the end of this notification. Duly perfected applications should be posted under registered
cover, to reach the Secretary, Central Provincial Public Service Commission, No. 244, Katugastota Road,
Kandy, on or before 15.05.2017. The caption “ Recruitment to the posts in Technological Service to
Central Provincial Public Service - 2016” and the Code number of administration District and post
apply  should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Applications
not conform to specimen, incomplete and for which Examination fee is not paid by the due date will be
rejected without any notice. No complain will be taken into consideration in relation to loosing an application
in posting or being late.
08. Examination medium :
The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium and not allowed to change the medium later
09. Examination Center :
Central Provincial Public Service Commission will notify in the admission card
10. Syllabus: Open competitive examination consists of two question papers.
01. Intelligence Test – (Time 01 hour, Total marks - 100)
This paper consists of objective questions to assess the candidate’s, power of logical reasoning and analysis
and ability to draw sound inferences.
02. Technological question paper (Time 03 hours, Total marks - 100)
Consists of multiple Choice Questions and Structural Questions applicable to the post
a) For the post of Technological Service (Civil) Grade III/  Training Grade to Central Provincial Public
Service.
This paper is designed for candidates applied for civil posts consists of questions to test the level of
technological knowledge, a civil officer should possess in the field of Building Construction &
maintenance, Road construction & Maintenance, and Water Supply & Drainage.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –12.04.2017
557
(b) For the post of Technological Service (Mechanical) Grade III to Central Provincial Public Service
This paper is designed for candidates applied for Mechanical posts consists of questions to test the
level of technological knowledge, a Mechanical officer should possess.
(c) For the post of Technological Service (Electrical) Grade III to Central Provincial Public Service
This paper is designed for candidates applied for Electrical posts consists of questions to test the
level of technological knowledge, an Electrical officer should possess.
  (d) For the post of Technological Service (Draughtsman) Grade III to Central Provincial Public Service
This paper is designed for candidates applied for Draughtsman posts consists of questions to test the
level of technological knowledge, a Draughtsman should possess.
11. Instruction on Application :
A specimen of the application for this examination is appended to the end of this notification. The application
should accordingly be prepared only on A4 size paper using both sides of the paper, so as paragraphs 01 to 05 in the
first page, and the rest in other pages of the application. Applicant should refer following codes for filling the
application.
11.1. Code numbers of District apply where applicant permanently reside
Kandy - 01
Matale - 02
Nuwara Eliya - 03
11.2. Code numbers relevant to the post
Grade III and Training Grade Civil : 01- C
Mechanical : 01- M
Electrical : 01- E
Draughtsman : 01- D
11.3. The signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School, Justice of the
peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public, Attorney-at-Law or an officer who holds tertiary or
senior level as per P.A. Circular No. 03/2016 in a permanent post in Government or Provincial Public
Service.
11.4. Any particulars mention in the application send by you found to be false or inaccurate before the
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. If it is revealed that any of the particulars, a candidate
has furnished is false and has been furnished deliberately knowing it is false, or else he has deliberately
suppressed any important fact, he/she may be liable to be dismissed from service.
11.5. Applicants who are already in public service or in the Provincial Public Service should forward the
applications through the Head of Department.
12. The Central Provincial Public Service Commission will make the final decision of any matter not covered by these
regulations and decision on filling the vacancies, leave them vacant or filling a portion of vacancies.
R.M.N. R
A TNAY AKE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
Central Provincial Council.
…… March  2017,
Central Provincial Public Service Commission,
No. 244, Katugastota Road,
Kandy.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.04.2017
558
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Recruitment to the posts in Technological Service (Civil/ Mechanical/ Electrical/ Draughtsman)  to Central
Provincial Public Service - 2016
    Medium Applied for : Index No. :
   (Sinhala - S, Tamil -T,    English - E)       (For office use only)
(Indicate the relevant code in the cage)
Post applied for Code denoted for Post:-
District Code Denoted for District:-
1. Applicant :
1.1 Name with initials at the end: …………………………………………………………
(Mr./Mrs./Miss) (in English capital letters)
1.2 Name with initials: …………………………………………………………
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Name denoted by initials: …………………………………………………
(In English capital letters)
1.4 Name denoted by initials: …………………………………………………
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2. 2.1 Permanent Address: - …………………………………...
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.2 Address to which the admission should be sent: - …………………………………...
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent: - …………………………………...
(In English capital letters)
2.4 Official Address, if currently in public service: ……………………
2.5 Telephone No. : ……………………
3. 3.1 Date of Birth: ……………………
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications (15.05.2017)
Years:        Months:  Days:
3.3   National Identity Card No. :
4. Sex :- …………………………………..

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –12.04.2017
559
5.  5.1 Pemanet Residentail District : ………………………
Accordingly to electoral register 2014 2015 2016
Electorate District
Electorate
Polling Division
Gramaniladari Division
Residential No.
Number order in front of the name
6. Educational Qualifications : -
6.1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination:
Year: ………….… Index No.: ………….…
Subject Grade Subject Grade
 Sinhala/ Tamil/ English   
 Mathematics   
 Science   
  
  
6.2. G .C.E. (A/L) Examination:
Year: ………….…                             Index No.: ………….…
Subject Grade
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Professional Qualifications  :
Institution Course fo llowed Duration Pass Certificate No. and Date
8. Other Qualifications : ………………………………………………
9. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
i. Office to which the payment was made : ………………………………………………
ii. Date : ……………………………………………………
iii. Receipt No. : ...........……………………………………………
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.04.2017
560
10. Candidate’ s Certificate :
I certify that the particulars given in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be
dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after selection.
……………………………………
Signature of the applicant.
Date : ………………………
11. Attestation of Applicant’ s Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………. who forwards this application is known to me personally and
he/she placed his/her signature on ………………… in my presence.
…………………………..
Signature of Attester.
Date: …………..
Full name of Attester: …………..
Post : ………………………….
Address : ………………………….
(Place official Stamp)
12.  Certificate of the Head of Department (for applications in the service already) :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs. ........................... is employed this institution as a ............................ .  He/she has not
been furnished for any disciplinary action except a warning or cautioning during last 05 years. He/She could be
released if selected for this Post.
……………………………………
Signature of the Head of the Institutions.
Date …………………………………… (Place official Stamp)
04-351
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.