

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of June 18, 2010
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 21. 06. 2010)
THE RAHULA COLLEGE MATARA PAST STUDENTS
ASSOCIATION (COLOMBO BRANCH)
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Rahula College Matara Past Students Association
(Colombo Branch)
To be presented in Parliament by Mr. Buddhika Pathirana M. P.  for
Matara District
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
(Private member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Students
 Association (Colombo Branch)
 (Incorporation)
1
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  RAHULA  COLLEGE  MATARA  PAST
STUDENTS  ASSOCIATION  (COLOMBO  BRANCH )
WHEREAS an association called and known as Rahula
College Matara Past Students Association (Colombo Branch)
has heretofore been formed in Colombo for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the serveral objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Rahula College Matara
Past Students Association (Colombo Branch) (Incorporation)
Act, No.   of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are  members of  the Rahula
College Matara Past Students Association (Colombo Branch)
(hereinafter referred to as the “Association”) or shall hereafter
be admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted
shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession, under
the name and style of  the “Rahula College Matara Past
Students Association (Colombo Branch)”  (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the  same at its
pleasure.
3. The general object for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) To promote educational, cultural and social
activities among past pupils, present pupils, present
teachers and former teachers of Rahula College ;
5
10
15
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Rahula
College Past
Students
Association
(Colombo
Branch).
20
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25
30
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Students
 Association (Colombo Branch)
 (Incorporation)
2
(b) To preserve the natural resources and create
infrastructure facilities and develop and maintain
same for the well being of the students of Rahula
College ;
(c) To promote Welfare, Cultural and Social
Development activities  among students and
teachers so as to improve cordial relationship
between the two groups ;
(d) To establish the Rahula Scholarships Trust for award
of scholarships prizes and other grants ;
(e) To establish libraries, research and training centers
and maintain same ;
(f) For the purpose of V ocational training to students
maintain cordial relationships with foreign and local
non governmental organizations ;
(g) To commence projects which generate income to be
used for the activities of the Corporation ;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written Law, the Corporation  shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion,
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to open, operate and close a bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation :
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by an Executive Committee elected in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
General
powers of the
Corporation.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Students
 Association (Colombo Branch)
 (Incorporation)
3
(2) The First Executive Committee of the Corporation
shall be  the Members of the Board of Management of the
Association holding office on  the day preceding the date  of
the commencement of this act.
6. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take over, acquire and hold and property, movable or
immovable, which may become vested in it by virtue of any
purchase, grant, gift, testamentary desposition or otherwise,
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation,
it shall have power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by such
class of members and their admission, withdrawal
or  expulsion or resignation ;
(b) the election of members of the Executive Committee
and the office-bearers, resignation or removal from,
or vacation of, office of members of the Executive
Commitee, powers, duties and conduct of the
members of the Executive Committee, the
appointment, powers, duties, functions and conduct
of the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(c) the procedure to be observed at, and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Executive
Committee and the Corporation, filling vacancies,
notices and agenda of such meetings the quorum
therefore and the conduct of business thereat ;
5
20
10
15
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.

<!-- page 5 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Students
 Association (Colombo Branch)
 (Incorporation)
4
(d) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership in the Executive Committee and the
Corporation ;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
(f) Generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects
and the dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, or rescinded at a like metting and in a like manner as
a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations, contributions or fees shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Executive Committee shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this act.
 (3) The moneys of the Corporation shall be applied solely
towards the promotion of the objects as setforth herein and
no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever
to the members of the Corporation.
9. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(b) The Executive Committee of the Corporation shall
cause to be kept proper books of account with respect to all
sums of money received and expended by the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Students
 Association (Colombo Branch)
 (Incorporation)
5
5
10
15
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute;
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument except in the presence of the President and
either the Secretary or Treasurer who shall sign their names
to the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
11. All debts and liabilities of  the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Association on that day shall be paid to the Association
for the purposes of this Act.
12. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation, or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or  of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.
20 Debts due by
and payable
to the
Association.
Limitation of
liability of
Members.
30
25
35

<!-- page 7 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Students
 Association (Colombo Branch)
 (Incorporation)
6
14. No person shall be liable in any suit or other  legal
proceeding for any act done, or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out of provisions of
this Act.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Indemnity
for Acts done
in good faith.
5
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Students
 Association (Colombo Branch)
 (Incorporation)
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.