

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
67
67
wxl 1"794 - 2013 ckjdß 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'01'18
No. 1,794 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 18, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 70
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 70
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th February, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th
January, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,793 of 11.01.2013 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
68
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
69
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
70
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Additional Registrar of Marriages
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule he reto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th Feb ruary,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
31st December, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kegalle Rambukkana Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General/Kandyan) for Galbada General, District Secretariat,
 Koralaya Division Kegalle.
01–482
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF  NATIONAL  LANGUAGES  AND
SOCIAL  INTEGRATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
the Post of National Integration Co-ordinators
Grade III - 2012
THIS is to inform that the name of the question paper under the
Subject No. 02 in the sub paragraphs (b) and (c) of the paragraph 08
in English notification of the Gazette on 03.08.2012 on the above
subject should be amended as follows :
Name mentioned in Shall be corrected as
Gazette Notification
Ability to face challenges Aptitude
Secretary,
Ministry of National Languages and
Social Integration.
01–577

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
71
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO NVQ LEVEL 5 DIPLOMA COURSES
CONDUCTED AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses conducted in Colleges of Technology appearing in this Notificatio n.
Students will be selected for admission among applicants according to the qualifications and merit and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare applications by themselves on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance
with the "Specimen Application Form" given in this notification. As specified in item 14 in the specimen application form, each
application should be affixed with a valid Rs. 10 stamp duly cancelled with the candidate's usual signature. Duly completed applications
should be sent under Registered cover to reach the Director of the respective College of Technology on or before 09.02.2013.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Fee of Rs. 2,000 will be charged for Part time/Evening course per Year.
06. All courses are conducted in English Medium.
07. Attention of all candidates is invited to the Schedule of courses annexed at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges where the courses are conducted. The addresses of Col leges of
Technology are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology.
08. Candidates seeking admission to follow courses in these Colleges of Technology should –
(i) have a good character,
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude test and an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the interview will be disqualified.
11. * Rs. 50 will be paid as a stipend per day according to the attendance depending on basic of family income and subject to
maximum amount of Rs. 1,000 for those who follows any fulltime course.
* Selected Full Time Day Course students, from low income families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500 per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or several courses in this Gazette Notification for the Academic Year 2013, in Colleges of Technology
are subject to discretion of the Director General of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using separate application forms for each course.
W. A. J
AYAWICKRAMA,
Additional Secretary/Director General (Act.),
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
www.dtet.gov.lk

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
72
THE LIST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
Serial Colleges of Address District Telephone E-mail
No. Technology No.
01 Sri Lanka College of Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 011-2324177 tecmaradana@gmail.com
Technology, Maradana Colombo 10
02 College of Technology , Galle Kaluwella, Galle Galle 091-2234051 cotgalle2007@gmail.com
03 College of Technology, Kandy Ar uppola, Kandy Kandy 081-2224063 kandycot@gmail.com
04 College of Technology, Jaffna Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna 021-2222358 cotjaffna@gmail.com
05 College of Technology, Badulla Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla 055-2222413 cotbadulla@gmail.com
06 College of Technology , New Town, Anuradapura Anuradapura 025-2222666 cotanuradhapura@gmail.com
Anuradapura
07 College of Technology , Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala 037-2223264 cotkurunegala@gmail.com
Kurunegala
08 Hardy College of T echnology, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara 063-2223485 cotampara@gmail.com
Ampara
09 College of Technology , Plam Gardens, Colombo Ratnapura 045-2232390 cotrathnapura@gmail.com
Ratnapura Road, R atnapura
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY NVQ LEVEL 05 DIPLOMA LEVEL COURSES, ACADEMIC YEAR – 2013
For Official use only                  
01. Name of the College of Technology applied :––––––––––––.
02. Name of the Course :––––––––––––. (full Time Day/Evening/Part Time)
03. Course Code No. :––––––––––––.
04. Applicant's Name with Initials :––––––––––––.
05. Names indicated by Initials :––––––––––––.
06. Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
07. Contact Telephone Number :––––––––––––. E-mail :–––––––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
09. District :––––––––––––. Electorate :––––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
Gramaniladari Division :––––––––––––.
10. Date of Birth :– Year :––––––––––––, Month :––––––––––––, Date :––––––––––––.
Age as at 01.01.2013 :  Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
11. Male/Female :––––––––––––.
12. Qualifications for Admission, (mention your qualifications in the relevant cage according to the Gazette Notification) :
Admission Qualifications for Course/Details of Certificates
Name of Certificate NVQ Level Name of the Institute, Details of Service
Received followed the course Experience Y ear           Month

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
73
13. Educational qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) results (not more than two attempts) :
Index No. Y ear Subjects Grade
(b) G. C. E. (A/L) results :
Index No. Y ear Subjects Grade
14. Applicant's Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge and I have obtained the qualifications
required for the course applied for. Further, I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology and to  accept the
decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO NVQ LEVEL 5 DIPLOMA LEVEL COURSES CONDUCTED AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Admission Qualification
No. Code No. and the nature College of Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 certificates
Technology for below mention courses
Age level should be more than 17 years
01 ETB 01 Telecommunication Technology Galle, Jaffna * Computer Hardware Technician
Full time day course one year * Computer Network Technician
* Radio, TV and allied equipment Repairer
02 ETB 04 Mechatronics Technology Maradana, * Radio, TV a nd allied Equipment Repairer
Full time day course one year Galle * Computer Hardware Technician
* Electrician
ETB 04.1 Mechantronics Technology Galle * Pneumatic Technician
Weekends/Part time * Automobile Technician
(No. of allocated hours for * Automobile Electrician
NVQ Level 5) * House Hold Electrical Appliances Repairer
* Fitter (General)
03 ETB 06 Construction Technology Badulla, * Construction Craftsman (Masonry)
Full time day course one year Kurunegala * W ood craftsman (Building)
Anuradapura * Construction Site Supervisor
Kandy, Rathnapura * Plumber
* Industrial Plumber
ETB 06.1 Construction Technology Galle, Ampara * Painter (Building)
Weekends/Part time Jaf fna, Kandy, * Draughtsmen
(No. of allocated hours for Kurunegala, * Assistant quantity Surveyor
NVQ Level 5) Rathnapura

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
74
04 ETB 07 Automobile Technology Ampara, * Automobile Mechanic
Full time day course one year Kurunegala, * Automobile Electrician
Kandy, Badulla * Automobile Painter
* Motor Cycle Mechanic and Three-wheeler
Mechanic
* Three-wheeler Mechanic
ETB 07.1 Automobile T echnology Galle, Jaffna,
Weekends/Part time (No. of Kurunegala
allocated hours for NVQ Level 5)
05 ETB 08 Refri geration and Air Conditioning Anuradapura, * Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Mechanic
Technology Ratnapura * Automobile Air Conditioning Mechanic
Full time day course one year * Automobile Electrician
* Household Electricial Appliances Repairer
* Electrician
06 ETB 09 Farm Machinery Technology Anuradhapura * Tea Factory Mechanic
Full time day course one year * Agriculture equipment Mechanic
* Automobile Mechanic
* Machinist
* Construction equipment Mechanic
07 ETB 10.1 Bio Medical Equipment Maradana * B io Medical Technician
Technology * Radio, TV  and Allied Equipment Repairer
Part time * Electrician (NVQ Level 4 only)
08 ETB 11 Information and Communication Maradana, * Information and Communication Technician
Technology Kandy , Galle, * Comp uter Application Assistant
Badulla, * Computer Graphic Designer
Full time day course one year Ratnapura, * Computer Hardware Technician
Jaffna, * Desk Top Publisher
Kurunegala, * Computer Network Technician
Ampara, Kegalle
ETB 11.1 Information and Communication Galle, Jaffna,
Technology Ratnapura
Weekends/Part time (No. of
allocated hourse for NVQ
Level 5)
09 ETB 12 Welding Technology Maradana * W elder
Full time day course one year * Metal fabricator
* Automobile Tinker
* Fitter (General)
10 ETB 14 Food Technology Kandy * Baker
Full time day course one year * Fruit and Vegetable Processor
* Cook
ETB 14.1 Food Technology Kandy
Weekends/Part time (No. of
allocated hours for NVQ
Level 5)
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Admission Qualification
No. Code No. and the nature College of Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 certificates
Technology for below mention courses
Age level should be more than 17 years

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2013
75
11 ETB 15 Jewellary Design and Maradana * Jewellary Maker
Manufacturing Technology * Jewellary Stone Setter
Full time day course one year
12 ETB 16 Production Technology Kandy * Aluminium Fabricator
Full time day course one year * Machinist
* Tool, Die and Mould Maker
* Welder
* Metal Fabricator
* Fitter (General)
01–473
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Serial Course Name of Course Conducted Admission Qualification
No. Code No. and the nature College of Should have obtained NVQ Level 3/4 certificates
Technology for below mention courses
Age level should be more than 17 years