

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2045$56 - 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'11'17
No. 2045/56 - FRIDAY,  NOVEMBER  17, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  G 26507 -  17 (11/2017)
 L.D. B. 10/2017
FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  ACT,  NO. 12  OF  2017
REGULA TIONS made under Section 29 read with Section 7 of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
RANIL W ICKREMESINGHE ,
Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs.
Colombo,
17th November, 2017.
Regulations
1. These regulations shall be cited as the Foreign Exchange (Classes of Capital Transactions in Foreign Exchange Carried On
by Authorized Dealers) Regulations No. 1 of 2017 and shall come into operation on the date on which the Act comes into
operation.
PART   I
CLASSES  OF  CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS
2. (1) Following capital transactions shall be authorized classes of capital transactions in foreign exchange carried on by
licensed commercial banks as authorized dealers  : -
(a) capital transactions undertaken outside Sri Lanka by a person resident in Sri Lanka subject to such limits, terms
and conditions specified in Schedule I to these regulations;
(b) capital transactions undertaken in Sri Lanka by a person resident outside Sri Lanka subject to such limits, terms
and conditions specified in Schedule II to these regulations;  and

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
2A
(c) capital transactions undertaken under any approval (general or special) granted under the provisions of the
repealed Exchange Control Act, subject to such limits, terms and conditions specified in Schedule III to these
regulations.
(2) Other capital transactions specified in Schedule IV to these regulations shall be carried on by licensed
commercial banks as authorized dealers and licensed specialized banks deemed to have been authorized to deal in foreign
exchange under Section 4 (1)(d) of the Act and licensed specialized banks which may be authorized by the Central Bank to
deal in foreign exchange under Section 4(1)(c) of the Act, as authorized dealers, subject to such limits, terms and conditions
as specified in Schedule IV .
3.  (1) Any person specified under heading H of Schedule IV who intends to open, maintain and operate an
account within a bank outside Sri Lanka and close such accounts may do so for the purposes of these regulations.
(2) An Account opened under paragraph (1) may be credited with foreign currency received or acquired legally
outside Sri Lanka or obtained from an authorized dealer or a person in Sri Lanka specified in paragraph 1 of heading H of
Schedule IV for a foreign currency transaction of the account holder permitted under the provisions of the Act.
(3) Funds of the accounts opened under paragraph (1) may be utilized towards any foreign exchange transaction
of the account holder permitted for a person resident in Sri Lanka under the provisions of the Act.
(4) Subject to the conditions specified in paragraph (5), where an account opened and maintained with a
foreign bank in accordance with the permission granted under paragraph (1) is closed, the balance in the account shall be
repatriated to  Sri Lanka through banking channels, within one month of such closure of the account.
(5) Where a person who is permitted to open and maintain an account outside Sri Lanka under item (g) of
heading H of Schedule IV above is refused student visa by such country or decides not to embark on studies after obtaining
student visa, such person shall repatriate all monies lying to the credit of the account opened by such person outside Sri
Lanka under this permission within one month from the date of such decision.
PART   II
GENERAL  CONDITIONS  & c.
4. (1) Every licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer, person engaged in capital transactions through a
licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer, issuers of securities and borrowers shall retain all information and
documentary evidence in proof that capital transactions they engaged in are permitted transactions under these regulation,
for a period of six years from such transactions.
(2) In the case of investments in securities, obtaining of loans and guaranteeing liabilities, such information
shall be retained for a period of six years from the date of disposal of such securities, repayment of loan or expiry of
guarantee.
(3) Any person engaged in a capital transaction permitted under these regulations through a licensed commercial
bank as an authorized dealer shall retain and maintain proper legally acceptable documentary evidence on inflows or
outflows of funds, disposal or acquisition of assets, receipts of income or returns on capital transactions and any other
documentary evidence which substantially prove the legality of such transactions.
(4) Every licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer and every person engaged in capital transactions
through a licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer shall facilitate compliance with the provisions of these
regulations by providing necessary documents at the time of such transactions.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
3A
Shares, Units, Debt
Securities and
Sovereign Bonds
Setting up of Overseas
             offices
5. For the purpose of these regulations-
"Act" means the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"authorized dealer" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"capital transaction" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"licensed commercial bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"repealed Exchange Control Act" means the Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423).
SCHEDULE   I
(Regulation 2 (a))
CAPITAL  TRANSACTIONS  UNDERTAKEN  OUTSIDE  SRI LANKA  BY  PERSONS  RESIDENT  IN  SRI LANKA
1. Any eligible resident investor  may purchase foreign exchange from any licensed Commercial Bank as an authorized
dealer to make payments to persons resident outside Sri Lanka for the capital transactions for following purposes:
(a) to acquire and hold shares and debt securities of companies incorporated outside Sri Lanka (an overseas
company), units in regulated unit trusts and mutual funds and sovereign bonds issued by foreign governments
rated at or above the sovereign credit rating of Sri Lanka at the time of the investment,
(b) to set up and maintain a branch, liaison, marketing, agency, project, representative or other similar office
(Overseas office) in a foreign country (other than by an individual).
2. (1) The capital transactions specified in paragraph 1 above shall be subject to the limits specified in Table 1 below and also
to the provisions of this Schedule:
Table 1 – Limits  for  Outward  Investments
Column I Column II Column III
Eligible Resident Investor T ype of  Investments/ Permitted limit
Instruments
USD 2,000,000 or an equivalent amount in any foreign
currency designated by the Central Bank, per calendar
year
USD 500,000 or an equivalent amount in any foreign
currency designated by the Central Bank, per calendar
year
USD. 300,000 or an equivalent amount in any foreign
currency designated by the Central Bank, for life time.
USD. 200,000 or an equivalent amount in any foreign
currency designated by the Central Bank, for life time.
USD. 300,000 or an equivalent amount in any foreign
currency designated by the Central Bank, per calendar
year.
(i) A company listed in the
Colombo Stock Exchange
(ii) A company not listed in the
Colombo Stock Exchange
(iii) A partnership registered in
Sri Lanka
(iv) An individual
(v) A company or a
partnership

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
4A
(2) The aggregate limits for investments specified in Table 1 above shall consist of the aggregate  investments made
under these regulations and any outward payment previously made in terms of the general permission granted by
the Gazette Notification Nos. 1686/50, 1686/52 and 1686/53 of dated January 1, 2011  issued in terms of the repealed
Exchange Control Act.
3. Any investment  exceeding the limits above shall require a special approval of the Monetary Board in terms of Section
7 of the Act upon applications submitted to the Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank.
4. The outward remittances required to make permitted investments shall be made through an Outward Investment
Account opened and maintained by the eligible resident investor with a licensed Commercial Bank as an authorized
dealer.
5. Any income from such investments and disposal proceeds (including any subsequent shares devolving on such
investor by virtue of a corporate action by the issuer, exercise of a right, entitlement or conversion) shall be brought into
Sri Lanka through the same Outward Investment Account through which the initial investment was made within three
months from the date of payment.
6. Each eligible resident investor shall maintain all Outward Investment Accounts with one licensed commercial bank
as an authorized dealer and any such investor who requires to open and maintain Outward Investment Accounts with
more than one licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer, shall obtain a special approval from the Head of the
Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank by submitting a request through the respective licensed
commercial bank as an authorized dealer.
7. A person resident in Sri Lanka against whom legal proceedings in respect of a prosecution or investigations are
pending against such person under the provisions of the repealed Exchange Control Act or this Act shall not be
eligible to carry out capital transactions for purposes permitted under this Schedule.
8. Any eligible resident investor may acquire and hold shares of an overseas company without restriction and irrespective
of the limits specified in Table 1 of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, where no consideration has to be paid in respect of
permitted investments.
9. The limits specified in Table 1 of paragraph 2 of this Schedule shall not apply to an individual who is required to effect
payment for shares vested in that individual under an Employee Share Ownership Plan or Employee Share Option
Scheme offered by an overseas company to the employees of its branch or subsidiary in Sri Lanka. If there is any
requirement to make an outward remittance by way of consideration for the receipt of shares mentioned above to such
overseas company on basis of a lump-sum remittance from the subsidiary or branch established in Sri Lanka, such fund
transfers may be effected by a licensed Commercial Bank as an authorized dealer upon satisfying with the bona fides of
the transaction.
10. An eligible resident investor may be permitted to make investments for purposes permitted under this Schedule by
utilizing funds up to fifty percent of the value of capital gains of previous outward investments credited to the Outward
Investment Account, without being subject to the permitted limits specified in the Table 1 of paragraph 2 of this
Schedule.
11. For the purpose of this Schedule–
 "Central Bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"Colombo Stock Exchange" means the Colombo Stock Exchange formed and registered under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007 and licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka under the
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987 to operate as a stock exchange;
 "eligible resident investor" means an eligible resident investor as specified in column 1of Table 1 of paragraph 2
above;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
5A
6  A - G  26507
"Employee Share Ownership Plan or Employee Share Option Scheme" means a plan or a scheme under which a
company incorporated outside Sri Lanka offers an opportunity to acquire its shares or shares of the group of
companies, to employees of its branch or subsidiary in Sri Lanka.;
"Monetary Board" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
SCHEDULE  II
 (Regulation 2(b))
CAPITAL   TRANSACTIONS   UNDERTAKEN   IN   SRI   LANKA   BY   A    PERSON   RESIDENT   OUTSIDE
SRI   LANKA
A. Permitted Investments
1. Any person resident outside Sri Lanka including country funds, regional funds, investment funds and mutual funds
established outside Sri Lanka may engage in the following types of capital transactions in Sri Lanka which  requires
remittance of foreign exchange into Sri Lanka.
(a) subject to the exclusions specified in paragraphs 3 and subject to the limitations specified in paragraph 4 under
heading A of this Schedule, invest, acquire or hold all classes of shares or an entitlement to shares (including
any subsequent shares devolving on such investor by virtue of a corporate action by the issuer, exercise of a
right, entitlement or conversion) issued by Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka under the Companies Act, No.
7 of 2007;
(b) invest, acquire or hold all classes of shares in a company not incorporated in Sri Lanka and listed in the
Colombo Stock Exchange;
 (c) investment in debt securities or granting loans with a tenure of 3 or more years to companies incorporated in Sri
Lanka (other than licensed commercial banks, licensed specialized banks, licensed finance companies, specialized
leasing companies and companies limited by guarantee and overseas companies) in foreign exchange or in Sri
Lanka Rupees;
(d) grant loans or invest in debt securities issued in foreign currency or Sri Lanka Rupees by licensed commercial
banks, licensed specialized banks, licensed finance companies, specialized leasing companies subject to the
approval of the relevant regulatory authorities;
(e) subject to the provisions or restrictions in any other written law, investments in-
(i) units in Unit Trusts or  Mutual Funds;
(ii) Government Securities (treasury bills, treasury bonds and any other securities issued by the Government);
(iii) securities issued by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or any other statutory body;
(iv) Sri Lanka Development Bonds (SLDBs);
(v) deposits in licensed financial Institutions;
(vi) immovable properties; or
(vii) any other investment categories approved by the Monetary Board in accordance with such directions
as may be issued by the Minister.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
6A
2. All capital transactions specified in items (a) to (e) of paragraph 1 under heading A above, shall be subject to the
following conditions-
(a) all funds required for capital investments referred to above shall be made through an Inward Investment
Account opened and maintained in any foreign currency designated by the Central Bank or Sri Lanka Rupees
with a licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer;
(b) all income received from such investments and proceeds of disposal, liquidation, maturity of the investments
shall be credited to the Inward Investment Account through which the investment was made;
(c) all income, proceeds on disposal, liquidation, maturity of the above investments (including any subsequent
shares devolving on such investor by virtue of a corporate action by the issuer, exercise of a right, entitlement
or conversion) transferred from a person who is non-national (excluding emigrants as defined in sub paragraph
(1) of paragraph 1 under heading B of schedule IV) to a person who is non-national (excluding emigrants as
defined in sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 1 under heading B of schedule IV) by way of inheritance or gift may
be repatriated through an Inward Investment Account opened by the beneficiary, if the investment has been
made via an Inward Investment Account of the initial investor in compliance with paragraph 1 under heading
A of this Schedule or by way of an inward remittance through a Securities Investment Account (re-designated
as Inward Investment Account) or any other account prior to the date of operation of these regulations.
(d) all income, proceeds on disposal, liquidation, maturity of the above investments (including any subsequent
shares devolving on such investor by virtue of a corporate action by the issuer, exercise of a right, entitlement
or conversion) made prior to the effective date of this regulation may be repatriated through an Inward
Investment Account opened by the investor subject to the submission of evidences of the inward remittance
for the investment. In the event of evidence of the inward remittance for the investment are not available for
investments made prior to January 1, 2010, the said proceeds and any income of the investment may be
repatriated through an Inward Investment Account opened by the non-resident investor upon satisfying with
the bona fide of the underlying transaction by the licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer.
(e) resident entities involved with the capital transactions, specified in paragraph 1 of this Schedule including
investee company, company secretaries and all intermediaries including stockbrokers, unit trusts, mutual funds
and financial institutions shall be responsible to ensure that persons resident outside Sri Lanka carries on such
capital transactions in compliance with all requirements specified under this Schedule.
3. Exclusions – The permission under paragraph 1(a) of paragraph 1 under heading A of this Schedule shall not apply in
respect of shares of a company proposing to carry on or carrying on any of the following businesses-
(a) pawn broking;
(b) coastal Fishing;
(c) retail trade where a capital contributed by persons resident outside Sri Lanka will be less than USD 5 Million.
4. Limitations
(1) The permission under paragraph 1(a) of paragraph 1 under heading A of this Schedule shall apply in respect of shares
in a company carrying on or proposing to carry on any of the following businesses only up to 40 per cent of the stated
capital of such company or if a special approval has been granted by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka for a higher
percentage of foreign investment in any company, only up to such higher percentage.
(a) Production of goods where Sri-Lanka’s exports subject to internationally determined quota restrictions.
(b) Growing and primary processing of tea, rubber, coconut, cocoa, rice, sugar and spices.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
7A
(c) Mining and primary processing of non-renewable national resources.
(d) Timber based industries using local timber.
(e) Deep sea fishing (as defined by the Ministry assigned the subject of Fisheries).
(f) Mass communication.
(g) Education.
(h) Freight forwarding.
(i) Travel agencies.
(j) Shipping Agencies.
(2) The permission shall apply in respect of shares in a company carrying on or proposing to carry on any of the businesses
specified below only up to the percentage of the stated capital of the company, for which percentage either general or
special approval has been granted by the Government of Sri Lanka or any legal or administrative authority set up for the
approval of foreign investments in such businesses-
(a) air transportation;
(b) coastal shipping (as defined by the Ministry assigned the subject of Shipping);
(c) industrial undertaking in the Second Schedule of the Industrial Promotion Act, No.46 of 1990, namely-
(i) any industry manufacturing arms, ammunitions, explosives, military vehicles and equipment, aircraft
and other military hardware.
(ii) any industry manufacturing poisons, narcotics, alcohol, dangerous drugs and toxic, hazardous or
carcinogenic materials
(iii) any industry producing currency, coins, or security documents.
(d) large scale mechanized mining of gems.
(e) lotteries.
5. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that in interpreting the provisions under heading A, the general
principle applicable shall be that investors shall repatriate out of Sri Lanka income and proceeds arising from disposal
of investments permitted under these paragraphs including any capital gains, in all instances where the investment has
been made utilizing remittances of foreign exchange into Sri Lanka. Where an investor has deviated from the procedural
requirements set out in these regulations, the Central Bank shall upon an application made to it through a licensed
commercial bank as an authorized dealer have the power to authorize outward remittances by an investor in conformity
with this principle upon satisfying with the bona fides of the application.
B. Opening and Operating a Place of Business in Sri Lanka
1. (1) An overseas company registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, may carry on in Sri Lanka -
(a)  any commercial, trading, or industrial activity, other than the activities specified in paragraph 2 under
heading B of this Schedule, provided that prior permission has been obtained from the Government of

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
8A
Sri Lanka or any legal or administrative authority established to grant approval for foreign investments
for the activities specified in paragraph 3 under heading B of this Schedule; or
(b) any non-commercial, non-trading or non-industrial activity such as the activities undertaken or carried
out by a liaison office, representative office, regional office or other similar office, provided  that such
activities do not provide any income directly or indirectly to the company.
(2) An overseas company registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, that undertakes or carries on any
activity specified above shall-
(a) in case of a place of business such as a branch office, project office or other similar office, invest a
minimum of United States Dollars (USD) 200,000 or  equivalent amount in other designated foreign
currencies, out of remittances received from abroad and channeled through an Inward Investment
Account opened with a licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer in Sri Lanka to the credit of an
account of the overseas company and provide evidence for the proof of said remittance, to the Department
of Registrar of Companies, within thirty days of the registration.
(b) In case of a place of a business such as a liaison office, representative office or other similar office, remit
in the funds required for the setting up and maintenance of such place of business through an Inward
Investment Account opened with a licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer in Sri Lanka to the
credit of an account of the overseas company.
(3) An overseas company referred to in sub paragraph (1) above may remit out of Sri Lanka, their profit, royalty,
franchise or other similar payments or surplus funds at the time of termination net of tax through the Inward
Investment Account of the parent  company through which the investment was routed. An overseas company
registered prior to the effective date of this regulation shall remit out the said payments through an Inward
Investment Account of the parent company upon satisfying the licensed commercial bank as the authorized
dealer about the bona fide of the underlying transaction.
2. For the purpose of sub paragraph (1) (a)  of paragraph 1 under heading B of this Schedule, following commercial,
trading and industrial activities are not permitted to be carried out by an overseas company:
(a) money lending (other than the branches of foreign banks registered in Sri Lanka under the Banking Act,
No. 30 of 1988);
(b) pawn broking;
(c) retail trade where the capital contributed by persons resident outside Sri Lanka is and less than USD 5 million
after such investment;
(d) coastal fishing;
(e) growing and primary processing of tea, rubber, coconut and rice;
(f) mining and primary processing of non-renewable national resources
(g) freight forwarding;
(h) shipping agency business;
(i) mechanized mining of gems; and
(j) lotteries.
3. For the purpose of sub paragraph (1)(a) of paragraph 1 under heading B of this Schedule, following activities are
permitted to be carried out with the prior permission of the Government of Sri Lanka or any legal or administrative
authority established to grant approval for foreign investments-

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
9A
(a) production of goods where Sri Lanka’s exports subject to internationally determined quota restrictions;
(b) growing and primary processing of sugar, cocoa and spices;
(c) timber based industries using local timber;
(d) deep sea fishing;
(e) mass communication;
(f) education;
(g) outbound travel agency business;
(h) local air transportation;
(i) any industry manufacturing or producing-
(i) arms, ammunitions, explosives, military vehicles and aircraft equipment and other military hardware;
(ii) poison, narcotics, alcohol, dangerous drugs and toxic hazardous or carcinogenic material; and
(iii) currency, coins and security documents.
4. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that in interpreting the provisions under heading B, the general
principle applicable shall be that investors shall repatriate out of Sri Lanka income and proceeds arising from disposal
of investments permitted under these paragraphs, in all instances where the investment has been made utilizing remittances
of foreign exchange into Sri Lanka. Where an investor has deviated from the procedural requirements set out in these
regulations, the Central Bank shall upon an application made to it through a licensed Commercial Bank as an authorized
dealer have the power to authorize outward remittances by an investor in conformity with this principle upon satisfying
with the bona fides of the application.
5. For the purpose of this Schedule-
"Central Bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"companies limited by guarantee" shall have the same meaning as in the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007;
 "licensed Commercial Bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"licensed specialized bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"licensed Finance Company" means a finance company licensed under the Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011;
"licensed financial institution" means-
(a) a licensed Commercial Bank;
(b) a licensed specialized bank;
(c) a microfinance company licensed under the  Microfinance Act, No. 6 of 2016;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
10A
(d) a specialized leasing company; or
(e) a licensed finance company;
"Minister" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"Monetary Board" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"overseas company" shall have the same meaning as in the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007;
"specialized leasing company" means a company registered under the Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000 to
conduct fiancné leasing business;
"Sri Lanka Development Bonds" means a debt instrument denominated in United States Dollars issued by the
Public Debt Department of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
SCHEDULE  III
 (Regulation 2(c))
CAPITAL  TRANSACTIONS  UNDERTAKEN  UNDER  ANY  APPROV AL  (GENERAL  OR  SPECIAL)  ALREADY
GRANTED  IN  TERMS  OF  THE  PROVISIONS  OF  THE  REPEALED  EXCHANGE  CONTROL  ACT
All existing transactions under the provisions of the repealed Exchange Control Act similar to the capital transactions
specified in Schedules I, II and IV to these regulations may be continued subject to the terms and conditions specified for
such transactions unless specifically varied by these regulations or any subsequent regulations.
SCHEDULE  IV
                                     (Regulations 2(2) and 4)
OTHER  CAPITAL  TRANSACTIONS
All other capital transactions specified under headings A to H below of this Schedule shall be undertaken through a licensed
commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of regulation 2 for
this purpose.
A. Repatriation of sale proceeds of immovable property (land and buildings) held by residents outside Sri Lanka.
1. A Licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of
regulation 2  are permitted to repatriate sale proceeds including capital gains, if any, paid in Sri Lanka Rupees by a
person resident in Sri Lanka to a person resident outside Sri Lanka where such payments form the consideration
payable in respect of a sale of immovable property in Sri Lanka by the owner or the heir of such property who is resident
outside Sri Lanka for the following purposes and subject to laws applicable for acquisition, ownership and possession
of immovable property in Sri Lanka-
(a) to credit an Inward Investment Account of the owner or the heir, if the original acquisition of the immovable
property was made utilizing the funds in the Inward Investment Account.
(b) to credit an account maintained outside Sri Lanka by the owner or the heir,  upon ascertaining the proof of
inward remittance (including funds sent by the owner to an account of a third party in Sri Lanka who has
facilitated the acquisition of the immovable property by the owner) for the original acquisition and/or the
development of such property.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
11A
B.  Migrant Transfers
1.(1) A Sri Lanka national who has been a resident of Sri Lanka and has obtained Permanent Residency (PR) or
citizenship in another country, including a dual citizen (hereinafter referred to as an emigrant) is eligible for the
migration allowance, which includes proceeds realized from the sale of movable and immovable property,
tangible and intangible assets owned by the emigrant and gifts received by the emigrant from the spouse and
parents. Assets may include the value of precious stones, precious metals, personal jewellery and other assets
held in Sri Lanka including estates inherited as beneficiaries.
(2) Following limits shall be applicable for the transactions specified in paragraph (1) of heading B above-
(a) an initial migration allowance of USD 200,000 per individual aged 18 years and above, subject to
directions issued by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
(b) an annual migration allowance of USD 30,000. The first such annual allowance is transferable after
lapse of 12 months from the full utilization of the initial allowance of USD 200,000. With the exception
of the first allowance, subsequent allowances shall be transferable per calendar year and can be
transferred in accumulation, subject to directions issued by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
(c) an annual allowance of USD 30,000 in respect of foreign nationals as proceeds from sale of inherited
property and assets in Sri Lanka subject to the directions issued by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
(3) The migration allowance should be remitted out through a Capital Transaction Rupee Account (CTRA) opened
with a licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under
paragraph (2) of regulation 2.
(4) Eligible migration allowance as approved by the licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed
specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of regulation 2 can be transferred from Capital Transaction
Rupee Account to applicant’s Personal Foreign Currency Account and/or Inward Investment Account in Sri
Lanka or transferred to an account of the emigrant maintained outside Sri Lanka.
(5) Current income (including interest, dividends, pensions, rent, lease rentals and profits) and superannuation
benefits (Employees Provident Fund (EPF), Employees Trust Fund (ETF), gratuity and any other approved
pension or retirement fund) shall be credited to the Capital Transaction Rupee Account and can be transferred
in addition to the migration allowance to Personal Foreign Currency Accounts and/or Inward Investment
Account in Sri Lanka or to an account maintained by the emigrant outside Sri Lanka.
2. Emigrants and/or foreigners of Sri Lankan origin shall obtain prior approval of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to open and
maintain foreign exchange accounts in any designated foreign currency for the purpose of crediting proceeds/income
of inherited assets derived in foreign currency, if any, for such person.
C. Granting of Loans and Advances in Sri Lanka to Residents outside Sri Lanka
Licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of
regulation 2 may grant loans and advances in foreign currency or in Sri Lanka Rupees for certain purposes to categories of
persons as set out below.
1. Sri Lankans, resident outside Sri Lanka on Permanent Residency (PR) visa in another country and dual citizens.
(1) Loans shall be granted in foreign currency or in Sri Lanka Rupees for the purpose of acquisition/construction/
development and renovation of a residential property in Sri Lanka.
(2) Foreign currency loans shall be granted only if the borrower has foreign currency earnings to repay the loan.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
12A
(3) Loan proceeds shall be disbursed in Sri Lanka Rupees unless the borrower requests to transfer the loan
proceeds to foreign exchange accounts maintained by persons resident in Sri Lanka, who develop residential
property, provided such persons are permitted to accept foreign currency.
(4) Loans granted in foreign currency shall be repaid with foreign currency inward remittances or by utilizing
funds available in Personal Foreign Currency Accounts and Inward Investment Accounts of the borrower.
(5) Loans granted in Sri Lanka Rupees shall be repaid with foreign currency inward remittances or by utilizing
funds available in Personal Foreign Currency Accounts and Inward Investment Accounts and by utilizing Sri
Lanka Rupee earnings of the borrower.
(6) Recoveries of foreign currency loans in Sri Lanka Rupees (at default) shall be carried out only at a stage of such
loans being classified as non-performing at least in the substandard category, in terms of the Banking Act
Directions, No. 3 of 2008 (as amended), as follows:
(a) Firstly, through foreign currency assets of the borrower.
(b) Secondly, through proceeds realized from the sale of the mortgaged assets or other domestic assets.
(c) As a last resort, Sri Lanka Rupee proceeds shall be converted only up to the extent of the amount
required to settle any remaining loan balance.
2. Sri Lankans employed abroad (other than emigrants)
(1) Loans and advances shall be obtained in foreign currency or in Sri Lanka Rupees from a licensed commercial
bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of regulation 2 to
be utilized for any purpose in Sri Lanka, provided the borrower has the capacity to service such loans in foreign
currency.
(2) Before granting such loans a licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as
authorized under paragraph (2) of regulation 2 shall assess the credit risk of such loan.
(3) Loans and advances in foreign currency/Sri Lanka Rupees shall be granted upon obtaining adequate security
to mitigate the credit risk in the form of a mortgage over freehold property (land and buildings) or in the form of
a lien on foreign currency deposits/assets.
(4) The tenure of the loans shall be decided based on the borrower’s probable tenure of employment abroad and
such loans shall be disbursed in accordance with procedures usually followed by the banks.
(5) Foreign currency loan proceeds shall be disbursed in Sri Lanka Rupees to the borrower unless the borrower
request to transfer the loan proceeds to foreign currency accounts maintained by persons resident in Sri Lanka,
who develop residential property, provided that such persons are permitted to accept foreign currency.
(6)  Loans granted in foreign currency shall be repaid in foreign currency through inward remittances or balance in
the Personal Foreign Currency Accounts of the borrower.
(7) Loans granted in Sri Lanka Rupees shall be serviced only out of funds available in the Personal foreign
Currency Accounts of the borrower as long as said borrower is employed outside the country. These loans may
be serviced in Sri Lanka Rupees of the borrower, only if the borrower becomes a resident in Sri Lanka after
ending the overseas employment contract.
(8) Recoveries of foreign currency loans in Sri Lanka Rupees (at default) shall be carried out only at a stage of such
loans being classified as non-performing at least in the substandard category, in terms of the Banking Act
Directions, No. 3 of 2008 (as amended), as follows:

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
13A
(a) Firstly, after applying foreign currency assets/deposits/balances in the Personal Foreign Currency
Accounts of the borrower towards repayment of the loan;
(b) Secondly, through proceeds realized from the sale of the mortgaged assets or other domestic assets
of the borrower; and
(c) As a last resort, Sri Lanka Rupee proceeds shall be converted only up to the extent of the amount
required to settle any remaining loan balance.
D. Borrowings by Sri Lankan Students Pursuing Education in an Overseas Country
1. Any Sri Lankan citizen who has proceeded outside Sri Lanka for educational purpose is permitted to borrow from banks,
financial institutions, universities or educational institutions in foreign countries in order to meet tuition/living expenses
while undertaking studies abroad and to repay such loans by remitting funds from Sri Lanka through a licensed
commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of
regulation 2.
2. Any licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2)
of regulation 2 may make outward remittances to respective lending institutions to repay the said loans by parents or
guardians in Sri Lanka of such Sri Lankan citizens who have proceeded outside Sri Lanka for educational purpose, after
verifying the bona-fide of the transaction.
E.  Payments related to Financial Derivative Transactions
Any licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer may make payments in foreign exchange for financial derivative
products in respect of current transactions and capital transactions (underlying transactions) permitted under the provisions
of the Foreign Exchange Act, after satisfying with the bona  fide  of such underlying transactions as per the directions
issued by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
F.  Repatriation of Export Proceeds to Sri Lanka by Exporters of Goods
1. Every exporter of goods shall repatriate to Sri Lanka payments received for the exportation of goods within 120 days
from the date of exportation.
2. A grace period of 30 days may be granted by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka after the completion of 120 days prior to
instituting any action against any violations of the above requirement.
3. Every exporter of goods shall submit related documentary evidence on each exportation to the respective licensed
commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of regulation
2 that receives the payment.
G.  Issuing of Financial Guarantees by a Person Resident in Sri Lanka in favour of a Non-Resident
1. Bank Guarantees, Bonds or Standby Letters of Credit
(1) Every licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or licensed specialized bank as authorized under
paragraph (2) of regulation 2 is permitted to issue and renew following bank guarantees, bonds or standby
letters of credit, as the case may be, in respect of capital transactions, subject to the directions issued to the
licensed commercial banks as authorized dealers and licensed specialized banks as authorized under paragraph
(2) of regulation 2 by the Central Bank -

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
14A
(a) the guarantees as collateral to secure payments of members obligations on membership and
reimbursement of visa expenses on behalf of card centers of licensed commercial banks or licensed
specialized banks;
(b) bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment guarantees required to be issued on behalf of a person
resident in Sri Lanka in favor of a person resident outside Sri Lanka in respect of overseas contracts
undertaken by the person resident in Sri Lanka, subject to the conditions stipulated in tender /quotation
or contract. Any other guarantees required for the said purpose shall be issued up to a maximum limit
of USD 1,000,000 per contract;
(c) A guarantee on behalf of a principal obligor who is a resident 
outside Sri Lanka in favour of a person
resident in Sri Lanka in respect of a contract in Sri Lanka, subject to obtaining a counter guarantee on
identical terms from the principal obligor who is a resident outside Sri Lanka issued by a reputed
International Bank outside Sri Lanka with a rating acceptable to the licensed commercial bank as an
authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of regulation 2;
(d) A guarantee, in the event the principal obligor is a person resident outside Sri Lanka and a guarantee is
to be given by his agent in Sri Lanka in favor of a person resident in Sri Lanka in respect of a contract in
Sri Lanka, at the request of the agent in Sri Lanka subject 
to obtaining a counter guarantee on identical
terms from the principal obligor resident outside Sri Lanka issued by a reputed international bank
outside Sri Lanka with a rating acceptable to the  licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a
licensed specialized bank as authorized under paragraph (2) of regulation 2;
(e) A guarantee, in the event where a company incorporated in Sri Lanka (investor)  requires to provide a
bank guarantee to enable a company incorporated outside Sri Lanka (investee) in which the said investor
is a shareholder to raise facilities from financial institutions in the country where the investee is
incorporated, subject to the maximum limit of USD 1,000,000, if the investment in said investee has been
made in compliance with the provisions of the repealed Exchange Control Act or this Act. The guarantee
value shall be proportionate to the percentage shareholding of the investor in the said investee at any
given time;
(f) In the event where a company incorporated in Sri Lanka (investor)  requires to provide a bank guarantee
to enable a branch established outside Sri Lanka by the said investor to raise facilities from financial
institutions in the country where the branch 
is established, a guarantee up to USD 500,000 may be
issued per branch established outside Sri Lanka by the investor if the investment in said branch has
been made in compliance with the provisions of the repealed Exchange Control Act or this Act;
(g) in the event where a person resident outside Sri Lanka undertakes a project in Sri Lanka as a contractor
and a person resident in Sri Lanka is required to issue a guarantee in favor of the said contractor in the
capacity of a 
sub-contractor, bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment guarantees may be
issued subject to the conditions stipulated in tender/ quotation or contract.  Any other guarantees
required for the said purpose shall be issued up to a maximum limit of USD 1,000,000 per contract; or
(h)  In the event a company incorporated in Sri Lanka act as an agent of a company incorporated outside
Sri Lanka (the principal) subject to an agreement entered into between both parties (agency agreement),
a guarantees shall be issued on behalf of the agent in favor of principal to a maximum amount of USD
2,000,000, as required in the said agency agreement.
2 . Corporate Guarantees
(1) A company incorporated in Sri Lanka, in the event where a company incorporated in Sri Lanka (investor) is
required to provide a corporate guarantee to enable a company incorporated outside Sri Lanka (investee) in
which the said investor is a shareholder to raise facilities from financial institutions in the country where the
investee is incorporated, shall be permitted to issue a corporate guarantee subject to the maximum limit of USD
1,000,000 if the investment in said investee has been made in compliance with the provisions of the repealed

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
15A
Exchange Control Act or this Act and the financial strength of the company is sufficient to recover the
liability of the corporate guarantee. The Board of directors of the company shall ensure that the company has
the financial strength to meet any contingent liability arising out of the corporate guarantee. The guarantee
value shall be proportionate to the percentage shareholding of the investor in the said investee at any given
time.
(2) Companies referred to in sub paragraph (1) above are required to furnish the details of each corporate
guarantee (including the copies of the corporate guarantee and the relevant board resolutions) issued under
the above permission to the Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank within 14 days
from the effective date of the said guarantee.
3. For the purpose of paragraph 1 and 2 above:-
(a) every licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as authorized under
paragraph (2) of regulation 2 is also permitted to make outward remittances arising from valid claims in respect
of the guarantees referred to above and the maximum limit of the claim shall be proportionate or lower to the
outstanding obligation of the underlying facility.
(b) any guarantee exceeding the above limits and does not fall under the above categories shall require a special
approval of the Monetary Board under section 7 of the Act. An application in this regard shall be submitted to
the Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank.
H .  Persons permitted to Open, maintain and operate an account with a bank outside Sri Lanka under regulation 3
Following persons are permitted to open, maintain and operate a foreign exchange account with a bank outside Sri Lanka -
(a) A person resident in Sri Lanka who has proceeded outside Sri Lanka temporality for business, education or
for medical purposes;
(b) An individual who provides, or a company or firm registered in Sri Lanka which provides professional or
vocational services outside Sri Lanka;
(c) An individual who has been permitted or a company or a firm registered in Sri Lanka which has been permitted
by the Monetary Board in accordance with such directions as may be issued by the Minister to invest outside
Sri Lanka;
(d) An exporter of merchandise goods;
(e) A person who has obtained a valid permanent residency permit from another country;
(f) A dual citizen; and
(g) A person resident in Sri Lanka who intends to proceed outside Sri Lanka for education in a country where
such person is required by the visa granting authority to open and maintain an account with a bank in such
country as a condition to grant visa.
I .For the purpose of this Schedule-
"Central Bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"Employees Provident Fund" means the Employees Provident Fund established by the Employees Provident Fund
Act, No. 15 of 1958;
"Employees Trust Fund" means the Employees Trust Fund established by the Employees Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of
1980;
"Minister" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"Monetary Board" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
16A
L.D. B. 10/2017
FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  ACT,  No.  12  OF  2017
Regulations made under section 29 read with section 7 of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
RANIL W ICKREMESINGHE ,
Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs.
Colombo,
17th November ,  2017.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as Foreign Exchange (Opening and Maintenance of Accounts for the purpose of
engaging in Capital Transactions) Regulations No. 2 of 2017 and shall come into operation on the date on which the Act
comes into operation.
PART I
AUTHORITY  TO  OPEN  ACCOUNTS
2 . The following persons shall have the authority to open and maintain foreign exchange accounts or Sri Lanka Rupee
accounts, in the name of any person to deal in capital transactions-
(a)  any licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer;
(b) any licensed specialized bank which is deemed to have been authorized by the Central Bank under section
4(1)(d) of the Act to deal in foreign exchange for the purposes specified in such authorization; and
(c)  any licensed specialized bank as may be authorized by the Central Bank under section 4 (1)(c) of the Act to
deal in foreign exchange for the purposes specified in such authorization.
3. A Financial Institution resident outside Sri Lanka may open and maintain foreign exchange accounts and Sri Lanka
Rupee accounts with any licensed commercial bank in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effecting payments to persons in Sri
Lanka.
4.  A licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or a licensed specialized bank as specified in paragraphs (b) and
(c) of regulation 2 may open and maintain Nostro Accounts with a bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka or branches of such
bank established outside Sri Lanka, in order to facilitate efficient settlement of foreign exchange transactions in other
countries by such licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer.
PART  II
TYPES  OF  ACCOUNTS
5. (1) Following types of accounts may be opened and maintained by any licensed commercial bank as an authorized
dealer or any licensed specialized bank as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of  regulation 2:

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
17A
(a) Inward Investment Account (IIAs)
(b) Outward Investment Account (OIAs)
(c) Capital Transaction Rupee Account (CTRAs)
(d) Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts (DFCAs)
(e) Diplomatic Rupee Accounts (DRAs)
(2) Inward Investment Accounts, Outward Investment Accounts, Capital Transactions Rupee Accounts and Diplomatic
Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened and maintained as Current (without cheque drawing facility), Savings or Term
Deposit accounts in Sri Lanka Rupees or any designated foreign currency.
(3) Inward Investment Accounts, Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts and Diplomatic Rupee Accounts maintained
by individuals may be held as sole or joint accounts with another eligible person.
(4) The accounts specified in paragraph (1) shall be opened and maintained by licensed commercial banks as authorized
dealers, in their domestic banking units.
6. Any account specified in regulation 5 shall be opened and maintained in Sri Lanka Rupees or any foreign currency
specified in Schedule I to these regulations or any other currency as may be specified by the Central Bank from time to time.
7. (1) No person shall open an account specified in regulation 5 where such person  is not eligible to open such an
account as specified in Schedule II to these regulations.
(2) Every licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or licensed specialized bank as specified in paragraphs
(b) and (c) of  regulation 2 shall exercise due diligence and reasonable care to ascertain persons seeking to open and
maintain an account specified in regulation 3 is eligible to open and maintain such accounts under criteria specified in
Schedule II. Information and documentary evidence relating to the account holders evidencing their eligibility during
the maintenance of the account and a period of six years after the closure of an account shall be maintained by every
licensed commercial bank as an authorized dealer or licensed specialized bank as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
regulation 2.
 (3) The criteria for eligibility to open each type of account specified in regulation 3, the permitted debit and
credit limits for each type of such account shall be as specified in Schedule II to these regulations.
(4) Nothing in these regulations shall prevent the licensed commercial banks as authorized dealers or licensed
specialized banks as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of  regulation 2 or account holders from complying with the
provisions of any other law in relation to opening and maintaining accounts.
PART   III
RE-DESIGNATION  OF  EXISTING  ACCOUNTS  &  c.
8. All licensed commercial banks as authorized dealers and licensed specialized banks as specified in paragraph (b)
of  regulation 2 shall re-designate–
(a) all existing  Securities Investment Accounts (SIAs) and Special Foreign Investment Deposit Accounts (SFIDAs)
opened and maintained in foreign currencies and in Sri Lanka Rupees under the provisions of the repealed
Exchange Control Act, as Inward Investment Accounts (IIAs); and

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
18A
(b) all existing  Non- Resident Rupee Accounts (NRRAs), Non- Resident Blocked Accounts (NRBAs) and Migrant
Blocked Accounts (MBAs) as Capital Transactions Rupee Accounts (CTRA),
by April 1, Two Thousand and Eighteen.
9. For the purpose of these regulations–
"Act" means the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"authorized dealer" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"Central Bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"financial institution" means a company licensed under the Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011 to conduct
finance business;
 "person" shall have the same meaning as in the Interpretation Ordinance (Chapter 2);
"licensed commercial bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
 "remittances" shall include telegraphic transfers, other interbank transfers, bank drafts, other payment instruments,
payments received via other internationally accepted payment mechanisms or platforms and funds received
from exchange companies/houses in foreign currency from abroad, other than currency notes;
"repealed Exchange Control Act" means the Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423).
SCHEDULE   I
 (Regulation 6)
Designated foreign currencies
(1) United States Dollars (USD)
(2) Euro,
(3) Sterling Pound
(4) Australian Dollars
(5) Singapore Dollars
(6) Swedish Kroner
(7) Swiss Franc
(8) Canadian Dollars
(9) Hong Kong Dollars
(10) Japanese Yen
(11) Danish Kroner
(12) Norwegian Kroner
(13) Chinese Renminbi
(14) New Zealand Dollars

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
19A
SCHEDULE   II
 (Regulation 7)
Eligibility and permitted debit and credit limits of Accounts
1. INW ARD  INVESTMENT  ACCOUNTS  (IIAs)
(1) Persons eligible to open IIAs
(a) A non- national resident in or outside Sri Lanka.
(b) A non-national of Sri Lankan origin, who is a resident outside Sri Lanka
(c) A Sri Lankan citizen, resident outside Sri Lanka.
(d) A Company incorporated outside Sri Lanka.
(e) Country and Regional Funds, Mutual Funds, Unit Trusts and other Institutional investors who are
established outside Sri Lanka.
(f) An administrator or executor of the estate of a deceased person, who maintained an Inward Investment
Account with that authorized dealer until the completion of the administration of the deceased person’s
estate.
(g) A receiver or liquidator of a Company that maintained an Inward Investment Account with that authorized
dealer until proceedings are concluded.
(h) Any other person or category of persons who may be authorized by the Central Bank from time to time.
(2) Permitted Credits
(a) Remittances in foreign exchange received from outside Sri Lanka in favor of the account holder
through the banking system.
(b) Transfers from Personal Foreign Currency Accounts, Inward Investment Accounts or accounts
maintained in the Offshore Banking Unit of the same account holder.
(c) Dividends, sale or maturity proceeds, disposal of liquidation, capital redemption, share buyback,
profits, surplus funds, rental income, recovery of principal, interest or any other related income received
from capital transactions undertaken in Sri Lanka by persons resident outside Sri Lanka as permitted
under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
(d) Foreign currency brought into Sri Lanka by the account holder upon declaration ( i.e., where such
foreign currency notes exceed or equals to USD 15,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currency on a
declaration to Customs Department or where such foreign currency notes are less than USD 15,000 or its
equivalent in other foreign currency on an appropriate declaration to the authorized dealer).
(e) Sale proceeds of immovable properties including capital gains, leasehold rights, sub-lease hold rights,
if any, received in Sri Lanka Rupees, where such investment had been made through the Inward
Investment Account [or through the re-designated Securities Investment Account of the account holder
or upon ascertaining the proof of inward remittances prior to these regulations come into effect].
(f) Transfers from Business Foreign Currency Account of a person  resident in Sri Lanka as repayment of
foreign currency loans obtained by such person ( i.e., borrower) from the account holder ( i.e., foreign

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
20A
lender) under a general or special approval granted under the provisions of the repealed Exchange
Control Act or Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
(g) Sri Lanka Rupees converted into foreign currency by a resident in Sri Lanka ( i.e., borrower) for
repayment of foreign currency loans obtained from the account holder ( i.e., foreign lender) under a
general or special approval granted under the provisions of the repealed Exchange Control Act or
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
(h) Transfers from Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts and Diplomatic Rupee Accounts of the same
account holder.
(i) Transfers from an Inward Investment Account of another person ( i.e., buyer) in respect of sale of
permitted investments to such buyer by the account holder where such investment has been made by
the accountholder through the same Inward Investment Account (including any subsequent shares
devolving on the investor by virtue of a corporate action by the issuer, exercise of a right, entitlement or
conversion).
(j) Transfers from Capital Transactions Rupee Account of the same account holder as permitted by
Directions issued by the Central Bank.
(k) Transactions or transfers from any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.
(l) Interest earned on the funds held in the account.
(3)  Permitted Debits
(a) Disbursements in Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka Rupees.
(b) Outward remittances in favor of the account holder.
(c) Transfers to Inward Investment Accounts, Personal Foreign Currency Accounts or accounts maintained
in the Offshore Banking Units of the same account holder.
(d) Payments relating to capital transactions undertaken in Sri Lanka by persons resident outside Sri Lanka
in terms of the permissions granted under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
(e) Disbursements relating to foreign currency loans to persons resident in Sri Lanka where such loans
have been obtained in terms of a general or special approval granted under the provisions of the Foreign
Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
(f) Transfer of proceeds of foreign currency loans (including debt securities) to an outward Investment
Account of the borrower, where such loans have been obtained for the purpose of financing an overseas
capital transaction (i.e., an outward investment) permitted under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange
Act, No.12 of 2017.
(g) Transfers to Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts and Diplomatic Rupee Accounts of the same account
holder.
(h) Transfers to an Inward Investment Account of another person ( i.e., seller) in respect of the purchase
of any permitted investment from such seller by the account holder.
(i) Transactions or transfers to any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
21A
2. OUTWARD  INVESTMENT   ACCOUNTS  (OIAs)
(1) Persons eligible to open OIAs
(a) Companies registered under the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 other than a company limited by
guarantee.
(b) A partnership registered in Sri Lanka.
(c) An individual resident in Sri Lanka.
(2) A Non-Governmental Organization shall not be permitted to open and maintain an Outward Investment Account.
(3) Any person against whom or any company or partnership against which legal proceedings or investigations
are pending in respect of a prosecution under the provisions of the repealed Exchange Control Act or Foreign
Exchange Act, No.12 of 2017, shall not be permitted to make any outward remittance in respect of a permissible
capital transaction without obtaining clearance for such remittance from the Central Bank.
(4) Permitted Credits
(a) Sri Lanka Rupee proceeds of the eligible resident investors converted into foreign currency, up to the
investment requirement, to the extent such limits specified in terms of the regulations issued under
the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act, No.12 of 2017.
(b) Transfers from Business Foreign Currency Account of the account holder.
(c) Proceeds of a loan (including the issue of debt securities) obtained from a foreign source through an
Inward Investment Account of the lender, in order to finance an overseas capital transaction (i.e., an
outward investment) permitted in terms of the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act, No.12 of
2017.
(d) Remittances as dividends, proceeds on sale and maturity, capital gains, liquidation proceeds, capital
reductions receivable of shares, sovereign bonds, units and debt securities, profits, margins and surplus
funds, management fees, consultancy fees and commissions or any other related receipts etc. (including
any subsequent shares devolving on the investor by virtue of a corporate action by the issuer, exercise
of a right, entitlement or conversion), received in respect of capital transactions undertaken outside
Sri Lanka by persons resident in Sri Lanka as permitted under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange
Act, No.12 of 2017 or the repealed Exchange Control Act, where such capital transactions have been
made through the same Outward Investment Account.
(e) Transactions or transfers from any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by
the Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted
by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(f) Interest earned on the funds held in the account.
(5) Permitted Debits
(a) Payments (including setting up and maintenance cost, bank charges, broker fees, commissions or any
other related payment etc.,)  relating to capital transactions (i.e., outward investments) undertaken by
the account holder in terms of the permissions granted under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange
Act, No. 12 of 2017.
(b) Payments in foreign currency outside Sri Lanka for current transactions of the account holder.
(c) Transfers to Personal Foreign Currency Accounts and Business Foreign Currency Accounts of the
account holder as capital and capital gains received from an overseas capital transaction (i.e., outward
investment) into an Outward Investment Account, where the investment had been made by debiting
such Personal Foreign Currency Accounts or Business Foreign Currency Accounts.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
22A
(d) Transactions or transfers to any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.
(e) Withdrawals in Sri Lanka Rupees.
3. CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS  RUPEE  ACCOUNTS (CTRAs)
(1) Persons eligible to open CTRAs)
(a) An individual Sri Lankan, permanently residing outside Sri Lanka.
(b) A Non-National of Sri Lankan origin, who is a resident outside Sri Lanka.
(c) A Non- National resident outside Sri Lanka.
(d) A Sri Lankan dual citizen.
(e) Foreign firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka.
(f) A Sri Lankan national, resident outside Sri Lanka.
(2) Permitted Credits
(a) Remittances in foreign exchange received from outside Sri Lanka in favor of the account holder
through the banking system.
(b) Where the account holder is an individual emigrant of Sri Lanka, a non- national resident outside Sri
Lanka or a Sri Lankan dual citizen; local income including sale proceeds of movable and immovable
property and tangible/intangible assets, which are derived in Sri Lanka.
(c) Transactions or transfers from any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by
the Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted
by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(d) Interest earned in Sri Lanka Rupees on the funds held in the account.
(3) Permitted Debits
(a) Remittance of migration allowance up to USD 200,000 per individual in respect of a Sri Lankan
emigrant, as per the directions issued by the Central Bank.
(b) Remittance of an allowance of USD 30,000 per annum in respect of an eligible Sri Lankan emigrant
in addition to sub paragraph (3)(a) of paragraph 4, as per the directions issued by the Central Bank.
(c) Remittance of USD 30,000 per annum for capital transactions in respect of foreign nationals as per
the directions issued by the Central Bank.
(d) Where the account holder is an individual emigrant of Sri Lanka, a Non- National resident outside Sri
Lanka or a Sri Lankan dual citizen, transfer of eligible migration allowance to a Personal Foreign Currency
Account or an Inward Investment Account of the account holder, as per the directions issued by the
Central Bank.
(e) Disbursements in Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka Rupees.
(f) Transactions or transfers to any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
23A
4. DIPLOMATIC  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  ACCOUNTS  (DFAs)
(1) Persons eligible to open DFAs
(a) A foreign citizen who holds a diplomatic passport, diplomatic identity card issued by the Ministry of the
Minister assigned subject of Foreign Affairs and has been exempted from the requirement of obtaining resident
visa issued by the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
(b) A foreign citizen who holds a non-diplomatic passport and has been exempted from the requirement of
obtaining resident visa issued by the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
(2) Permitted Credits
(a) Remittances in foreign exchange received from outside Sri Lanka in favor of the account holder through the
banking system.
(b) Foreign currency brought into Sri Lanka by the account holder on declaration to Customs Department.
(c) Transfers from Inward Investment Accounts and accounts maintained in the Offshore Banking Units of the
same account holder.
(d) Transfers from Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts and Diplomatic Rupee Accounts, irrespective of the
account holder.
(e) Transactions or transfers from any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by directions
issued by the Central Bank.
(f) Interest earned in foreign currency on the funds held in the account.
(3) Permitted Debits
(a) Any outward remittances made outside Sri Lanka.
(b) Withdrawals  in foreign currency or in Sri Lanka Rupees for local expenses of the account holder.
(c) Transfers to Inward Investment Accounts and accounts maintained in the Offshore Banking Unit of the same
account holder.
(d) Transfers to Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts and Diplomatic Rupee Accounts, irrespective of the
account holder.
(e) Transfers to Personal Foreign Currency Accounts of any other person.
(f) Transactions or transfers to any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the Central
Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by directions issued by
the Central Bank.
5. DIPLOMATIC  RUPEE   ACCOUNTS  (DRAs)
(1) Persons eligible to open DRAs
(a) A foreign citizen who holds a diplomatic passport, a diplomatic identity card issued by the Ministry
of the Minister assigned the subject of Foreign Affairs and has been exempted from the requirement
of obtaining resident visa issued by the Department of Immigration and Emigration.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
24A
(b) A foreign citizen who holds a non-diplomatic passport and has been exempted from the requirement
of obtaining resident visa issued by the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
(2) Permitted Credits
(a) Remittances in foreign exchange received from outside Sri Lanka in favor of the account holder
through the banking system.
(b) Refunds, reimbursements and payments due to the account holder from any person in Sri Lanka.
(c) Sale proceeds of motor vehicles owned by the account holder, derived in Sri Lanka upon submission
of documents by the account holder.
(d) Transfers from Inward Investment Account of the same account holder.
(e) Transfers from Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts and Diplomatic Rupee Accounts, irrespective
of the account holder.
(f) Transactions or transfers from any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by
the Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted
by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(g) Interest earned in Sri Lanka Rupees on the funds held in the account.
(3)  Permitted Debits
(a) Disbursements in Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka Rupees.
(b) Outward remittances of visa fees, refunds, reimbursements and sale proceeds of motor vehicles owned
by the account holder.
(c) Transfers to Inward Investment Accounts of the same account holder.
(d) Transfers to Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts and Diplomatic Rupee Accounts, irrespective of
the account holder.
(e) Any other transaction approved by the relevant line Ministry.
(f) Transactions or transfers to any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.
6. For the purpose of this Schedule-
"Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka" means the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka
established under the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
25A
L.D. B. 10/2017
FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  ACT,  No.  12   OF  2017
REGULATIONS made under Section 29 read with Sections 5 and 8 of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
RANIL W ICKREMESINGHE ,
Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs.
Colombo,
17th November, 2017.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as Foreign Exchange (Opening and Maintenance of Foreign Exchange Accounts)
Regulations No. 3 of 2017 and shall come into operation on the date on which the Act comes into operation.
PART  I
AUTHORITY  TO  OPEN   ACCOUNTS
2. An authorized dealer or a restricted dealer to the extent specified in his permit shall have the authority to open and
maintain foreign exchange accounts in the name of any person.
PART  II
TYPES  OF  ACCOUNTS
3. (1) Following types of accounts may be opened and maintained, by an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer under
regulation 2-
(a) Personal Foreign Currency Accounts (PFCAs);
(b) Business Foreign Currency Accounts (BFCAs); or
(c) any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain, in terms of the directions issued by the
Central Bank from time to time.
 (2) In case of licensed commercial banks as authorized dealers, the accounts specified in paragraph (1) shall be opened
and maintained in their domestic banking units.
4. Any account specified in regulation 3 shall be opened and maintained in any designated foreign currency specified
in Schedule I to these regulations or any other currency as may be specified by the Central Bank from time to time.
5.  (1) No person shall open an account specified in regulation 3 where such person is not eligible to open such an
account as specified in Schedule II to the regulations.
(2) Every authorized dealer and restricted dealer shall exercise due diligence and reasonable care to ascertain persons
seeking to open and maintain an account specified in regulation 3 is eligible to open and maintain such accounts under
criteria specified in Schedule II. Information and documentary evidence relating to the account holders evidencing his
eligibility during the maintenance of the account and a period of six years after the closure of an account shall be maintained
by every authorized dealer and restricted dealer

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
26A
 (3) The criteria for eligibility to open each type of account specified in regulation 3, the permitted debit and credit
limits for each type of such account shall be as specified in Schedule II to these regulations.
(4) Nothing in these regulations shall prevent the authorized dealers, restricted dealers or account holders from
complying with the provisions of any other written law in relation to opening and maintenance of accounts.
PART   III
RE-DESIGNATION  OF  EXISTING  ACCOUNTS  &  C.
6. (1) All authorized dealers and restricted dealers shall re-designate -
(a) all existing  Non-Resident Foreign Currency Accounts (NRFCs), Resident Foreign Currency Accounts (RFCs),
Resident Non Nationals’ Foreign Currency Accounts (RNNFCs) and Non-Resident Non-National Foreign
Currency Accounts (NRNNFC As) opened and maintained under the provisions of the repealed Exchange
Control Act (Chapter 423), as Personal Foreign Currency Accounts (PFCAs); and
(b) all existing Foreign Exchange Earners’ Accounts (FEEAs), Inward Remittance Distribution Accounts (IRDAs)
and Foreign Currency Accounts for Agents of Foreign Shipping Line or Air Lines (FCAAF SAs) as Business
Foreign Currency Accounts (BFCAs),
by April 1, Two Thousand and Eighteen.
(2)  All existing Resident Guest Foreign Currency Accounts and Senior Foreign Nationals Special Accounts shall
continue to be in operation with effect from January 1, Two Thousand and Eighteen, without being re-designated.
(3) Personal Foreign Currency Accounts (PFCAs) and Business Foreign Currency Accounts (BFCAs) may be opened
and maintained as Current (without cheque drawing facility), Savings or Term Deposit accounts in any designated foreign
currency. Out of such accounts, Personal Foreign Currency Accounts, maintained by individuals may be held as sole or joint
accounts with another eligible person.
7. For the purpose of these regulations-
"authorized dealer": shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"Central Bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
"licensed commercial bank" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
 "person" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
 "remittances" shall include telegraphic transfers, other interbank transfers, bank drafts, other payment instruments,
payments received via other internationally accepted payment mechanisms or platforms and funds received
from exchange companies/houses in foreign currency from abroad, other than currency notes;
"restricted dealer" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
27A
SCHEDULE  I
                                       (Regulation 4)
Designated foreign currencies
(a) United States Dollars (USD)
(b)E u r o
(c) Sterling Pound
(d) Australian Dollars
(e) Singapore Dollars
(f) Swedish Kroner
(g) Swiss Franc
(h) Canadian Dollars
(i) Hong Kong Dollars
(j) Japanese Yen
(k) Danish Kroner
(l) Norwegian Kroner
(m) Chinese Renminbi
(n) New Zealand Dollars.
SCHEDULE   II
                                       (Regulation 5)
Eligibility and permitted debit and credit limits of Accounts
1. PERSONAL  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  ACCOUNTS  (PFCAs)
 (1) Persons eligible to open PFCAs
(a) An individual including a minor who is a Sri Lankan National.
(b) An individual of Sri Lankan origin including a minor who is a resident outside Sri Lanka.
(c) A non-national resident in Sri Lanka.
(d) A Non-national either on temporary visit to Sri Lanka or intending to visit Sri Lanka.
(e) An administrator or executor of the estate of a deceased person, who maintained a personal foreign
currency account with that authorized dealer or restricted dealer until the completion of the administration
of the deceased person’s estate.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
28A
(2) Permitted Credits
(a) Remittances in foreign exchange received from outside Sri Lanka in favour of the account holder
through the banking system.
(b) Unutilized foreign currency obtained by the account holder by debiting the Personal Foreign Currency
Account for travel purpose as permitted by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(c) Foreign currency brought into Sri Lanka by the account holder upon declaration [ i.e., where such
foreign currency notes exceeds or equals to USD 15,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currency on a
declaration to Customs Department or where such foreign currency notes are less than USD 15,000 or its
equivalent in other foreign currency, on an appropriate declaration to the authorized dealer or restricted
dealer].
(d) Transfers from Personal Foreign Currency Accounts, Business Foreign Currency Accounts or accounts
maintained in the Offshore Banking Unit, irrespective of the account holder.
(e) Where the account holder is a resident outside Sri Lanka or a non-national resident in Sri Lanka,
transfers from an Inward Investment Account of the same account holder.
(f) Transfers from Capital Transactions Rupee Account of the same account holder as permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.
(g) Transfers from Diplomatic Foreign Currency Accounts of any other person.
(h) Capital, capital gains and other receipts arising from investments made in Sri Lanka in foreign currency,
if the original transfer had been made by debiting the Personal Foreign Currency Account [or from the
Non-Resident Foreign Currency Account, Resident Foreign Currency Account or Resident Non-National
Foreign Currency Account of the account holder prior to this order come into effect].
(i) Capital and capital gains received from foreign investments into an Outward Investment Account, if the
original investment had been made by debiting the Non-Resident Foreign Currency Account, Resident
Foreign Currency Account or Resident Non-National Foreign Currency Account of the account holder,
prior to this order come into effect.
(j) Unutilized balance remaining in the Foreign Travel Card of the same account holder, up to the amount
the Foreign Travel Card had been loaded from the Personal Foreign Currency Account.
(k) Where the account holder is a non-national employee resident in Sri Lanka, transfers from employers’ Sri
Lanka Rupee account as monthly salary, employment benefits and other related benefits.
(l) Where the account holder is a non-national employee resident in Sri Lanka, amounts in Sri Lanka
Rupees authorized by the Central Bank for remittance abroad, converted at the rate of exchange obtained
on the day of credit.
(m) Transactions or transfers from any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.
(n) Remittances originating outside Sri Lanka from the account holder in terms of section 8(3) of the Act.
(o) Interest earned in foreign currency on the funds held in the account.
(3) Permitted Debits
(a) Any outward remittances made outside Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
29A
(b) Disbursements in Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka Rupees.
(c) Transfers to Personal Foreign Currency Accounts or accounts maintained in the Offshore Banking
Units, irrespective of the account holder.
(d) Where the account holder is a resident outside Sri Lanka or a non-national resident in Sri Lanka
transfers to an Inward Investment Account of the same account holder.
(e) Transfer of funds for uploading a Foreign Travel Card.
(f) Transfers in respect of any investment permitted to be made in Sri Lanka in foreign currency utilizing
funds in the Personal Foreign Currency Account.
(g) Withdrawal in foreign currency notes up to USD 10,000 (or equivalent in any other foreign currency)
for travel purpose as permitted by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(h) Where the account holder is a non-national resident outside Sri Lanka who is on temporary visit to Sri
Lanka, withdrawals in foreign currency.
(i) Where the account holder is a non-national employee resident in Sri Lanka, transfers to Business
Foreign Currency Accounts of the employer in respect of overpayment of salaries and any other payment
due to such employer.
(j) Transfers to employers’ Sri Lanka Rupee accounts in the event of an overpayment to a non-national
employee resident in Sri Lanka, as per the sub paragraph (2) (k) of paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(k) Payments to residents in foreign exchange in respect of transactions or categories of transactions, to
the extent such transactions have been permitted by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(l) Transactions or transfers to any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such  transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.
2. BUSINESS   FOREIGN  CURRENCY  ACCOUNTS  (BFCAs)
(1) Persons eligible to open BFCAs
(a) The following persons in, or resident in Sri Lanka who earn foreign exchange:
(i) An individual resident in Sri Lanka.
(ii) A sole proprietorship or partnership registered in Sri Lanka where the proprietor or a majority
of partners are resident in Sri Lanka (in case of a partnership with two partners, at least one
partner shall be a resident in Sri Lanka).
(iii) A company incorporated in Sri Lanka.
(iv) A company incorporated outside Sri Lanka which is registered as an overseas company under
the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007.
(v) A State Institution with the recommendation of the Secretary to the relevant line Ministry or
appropriate Authority.
(vi) A person authorized to carry on business as a shipping agent or a general sales agent in Sri Lanka
on behalf of a foreign shipping line or airline (foreign principal) with a valid license or authorization
letter issued by the Director General of Merchant Shipping and Director General of Civil Aviation
Authority of Sri Lanka, respectively.
(b) An administrator or executor of the estate of a deceased person, who maintained a Business Foreign
Currency Account with that authorized dealer or restricted dealer, until the completion of the administration
of the deceased persons’ estate.
(c) A receiver or liquidator, in the name of a company that maintained a Business Foreign Currency
Account with that authorized dealer or restricted dealer, until proceedings are concluded.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
30A
(2) A Non-Governmental Organization shall not be permitted to open and maintain a Business Foreign Currency
Account.
(3) Permitted Credits
(a) Remittances received in foreign exchange from abroad through the banking system in respect of,
export of goods and services, entrepot trade, overseas projects undertaken by the account holder,
investments made outside Sri Lanka and goods supplied locally to a person resident outside Sri Lanka.
(b) Remittances received in foreign exchange through the banking system from the overseas employers
with whom the account holder has an arrangement for the disbursement of wages and/or earnings of Sri
Lankans who are rendering services to such overseas employer.
(c) Foreign currency in the form of travellers’ cheques, bank drafts or currency notes accepted by the
account holder in Sri Lanka in respect of goods and services supplied by such person to a person
resident outside Sri Lanka.
(d) Where the account holder is a shipping agent or a general sales agent in Sri Lanka, remittances received
in foreign exchange through the banking system from the respective foreign principal or from a designated
third party on behalf of the foreign principal for the purposes under the respective agency agreements.
(e) Freight collected in foreign exchange by the account holder who is a shipping agent or a general sales
agent in Sri Lanka on behalf of the foreign principal, by way of a remittance against a Business Foreign
Currency Account or an account maintained in the Offshore Banking Unit.
(f) Foreign currency brought into Sri Lanka by the account holder upon declaration [i.e., where such
foreign currency notes exceeds or equals to USD 15,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currency on a
declaration to Customs Department or where such foreign currency notes are less than USD 15,000 or its
equivalent in other foreign currency on an appropriate declaration to the authorized dealer or restricted
dealer].
(g) Transfers from Business Foreign Currency Accounts or accounts maintained in the Offshore Banking
Unit, irrespective of the account holder.
(h) Payments received in foreign exchange in favor of the account holder being consideration for goods
or services supplied to a resident, to the extent such payments and receipts or categories of transactions
have been permitted by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(i) Proceeds of foreign currency loans and advances obtained by the account holder from the domestic
banking unit or Offshore Banking Unit of an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer, with the prior
approval of the Central Bank.
(j) Proceeds or any part thereof from sale of any foreign asset of the account holder, where the asset had
been acquired by debiting the Business Foreign Currency Account.
(k) Capital, capital gains and other receipts arising from investments made in Sri Lanka in foreign currency,
if the original transfer had been made by debiting the Business Foreign Currency Account (or from the
Foreign Exchange Earners’ Account of the account holder prior to this order come into effect).
(l) Capital and capital gains received from foreign investments into an Outward Investment Account, if
the original investment had been made by debiting the Foreign Exchange Earners’ Account of the
account holder prior to this order come into effect.
(m) Unutilized foreign currency obtained by the account holder debiting the Business Foreign Currency
Account as per sub paragraphs (4)(c) and (4)(d) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
31A
(n) Unutilized balance remaining in the Foreign Travel Card of the same account holder, up to the amount
such Foreign Travel Card had been loaded from the Business Foreign Currency Account.
(o) Insurance premia received by the account holder on foreign currency denominated policies issued to
eligible customers and co-insurers and claims received from re-insurers and National Insurance Trust
Fund by Insurance companies registered with the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka.
(p) Transfers from Personal Foreign Currency Accounts of the non-national employee resident in Sri
Lanka, being overpayments of salaries and any other benefits.
(q) Transactions or transfers from any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by
the Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted
by Directions issued by the Central Bank.
(r) Remittances originating outside Sri Lanka from the account holder in terms of Section 8(3) of the
Act.
(s) Interest earned in foreign currency on the funds held in the account.
(4) Permitted Debits
(a) Any outward remittances made outside Sri Lanka.
(b) Disbursements in Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka Rupees.
(c) Withdrawal in foreign currency notes up to USD 10,000 (or equivalent in any other foreign currency)
for travel purpose as permitted by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(d) Withdrawal in foreign currency notes up to USD 50,000 (or equivalent in any other foreign currency)
at a time by gem and jewellery dealers for the purpose of purchasing cut and polished or rough gem
stones and other raw materials abroad upon submission of confirmation obtained from the National
Gem and Jewellery Authority.
(e) Where the account holder is a shipping agent or a general sales agent in Sri Lanka, withdrawal in
foreign currency notes up to USD 50,000 (or equivalent in any other foreign currency) per vessel per
call as Cash-to-Masters, against inward remittance received from the foreign principal or from
designated third parties on behalf of the foreign principal, on a request with the reasons acceptable to
the authorized dealer or restricted dealer.
(f) Where the account holder is a shipping agent or a general sales agent in Sri Lanka, repatriation of the
surplus funds to the foreign principal, provided that a confirmation in writing is obtained from the
account holder (i.e., Agent) to the effect that adequate funds have been retained in the account, to meet
all local liabilities of the foreign principal in Sri Lanka including tax payable to the Government and the
agency commission.
(g) Transfers to Business Foreign Currency Accounts, Personal Foreign Currency Accounts or accounts
maintained in the Offshore Banking Unit, irrespective of the account holder.
(h) Transfers to an Outward Investment Account of the same account holder.
(i) Transfers to an Inward Investment Account of a resident outside Sri Lanka for the purpose of repayment
of a foreign currency loan obtained from such foreign lender by the account holder.
(j) Transfer of funds for uploading a Foreign Travel Card.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
32A
(k) Debt servicing expenses and repayment of foreign currency loans obtained by the account holder
from authorized dealers or restricted dealers.
(l) Transfers in respect of any investment permitted to be made in Sri Lanka in foreign currency utilizing
funds in the Business Foreign Currency Account.
(m) Payments of claims to eligible customers and co-insurers in respect of foreign currency denominated
policies, premia to local or overseas re-insurers and National Insurance Trust Fund and brokerage by
insurance companies registered with the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka.
(n) Payments to residents in foreign exchange in respect of transactions or categories of transactions, to
the extent such transactions have been permitted by directions issued by the Central Bank.
(o) Transactions or transfers to any other category of accounts that may be permitted to maintain by the
Central Bank from time to time, to the extent such transactions or transfers have been permitted by
directions issued by the Central Bank.
(5) Under no circumstances Sri Lanka Rupees shall be converted into foreign currency and be credited into a
Business Foreign Currency Account.
3. For the purpose of this Schedule-
 "National Gem and Jewellery Authority" means the National Gem and Jewellery Authority established under National
Gem and Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993;
"Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka" means the Civil Aviation Authority established under the Civil Aviation
Authority Act, No. 34 of 2002;
 "Director General of Merchant Shipping" means the Director General of Merchant Shipping appointed under the
Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52 of 1971;
"National Insurance Trust Fund" means the National Insurance Trust Fund established by the National Insurance
Trust Fund Act, No. 28 of 2006;
LD. B 10/2017
FOREIGN   EXCHANGE   ACT,  No.  12  of  2017
Order under Section 8
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by paragraphs (a)  and (b) subsection (1) of section 8 of the Foreign Exchange Act,
No. 12 of 2017, I, Ranil Wickremesinghe, Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs, do, by this Order, prescribe
the purposes, limits, terms and conditions as specified in the Schedule I hereto, subject to which a person in or resident in
Sri Lanka shall-
(a) export from Sri Lanka or import into Sri Lanka, any foreign currency or Sri Lanka currency;
(b) hold foreign exchange in his possession or in a bank account in Sri Lanka;

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
33A
Orders made under the Exchange Control Act as repealed by the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 and specified in
the Schedule II hereto are hereby revoked.
RANIL W ICKREMESINGHE ,
Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs.
Colombo,
17th November,  2017.
SCHEDULE   I
PART I
PURPOSES,  LIMITS,  TERMS   AND  CONDITIONS  FOR  IMPORT  AND  EXPORT  OF  FOREIGN
CURRENCY  OR  SRI  LANKA  CURRENCY
1. (1) Any person departing from or arriving in Sri Lanka may carry any amount of foreign exchange in the form of
currency notes, bank drafts, cheques, travel cards, etc. legitimately acquired by such person subject to a
declaration made to the Customs Department at the port of departure or arrival, respectively, if the total value of
such foreign exchange exceeds United States Dollars 15,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies.
    (2) However, where a person arriving in Sri Lanka intends to take back foreign currency notes exceeding United
States Dollars 10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies or departing from Sri Lanka carries foreign
currency notes exceeding United States Dollars10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies, such person
is required to make a declaration to the Customs Department.
2. Any person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka may take out of, or bring into Sri Lanka, respectively, Sri Lanka currency
up to the value of Sri Lanka Rupees 20,000.
3. Any authorized dealer may export from or import in to Sri Lanka, foreign currency which has been acquired in
or for the normal course of their business and within the terms of his authorization.
4. For the purpose of this Part –
"authorized dealer" shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
PART  II
PURPOSES,  LIMITS,  TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS  FOR  HOLDING  OF   FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  IN
POSSESSION
1. Holding foreign exchange by a person in or resident in Sri Lanka
(1) Any person in, or resident in, Sri Lanka may retain in his possession foreign currency notes up to the
value of United States Dollars10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies, for any period,
irrespective of the time period restrictions mentioned in paragraph 2 herein, provided that, such foreign
currency represents:

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
34A
(a)  foreign currency purchased by such person from an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer for travel
abroad of such person and brought back as unutilized currencies while returning to Sri Lanka; or
(b) foreign currency received by such person from outside Sri Lanka as a payment for a service rendered
or goods supplied abroad by such person to a person resident outside Sri Lanka, or from any other
legitimate source; or
(c) foreign currency notes withdrawn by such person from his Personal Foreign Currency Accounts or
Business Foreign Currency Accounts for travel purpose.
(2) (a) Any person may retain in his possession foreign currency accepted in respect of goods and services supplied
by such person to a person resident outside Sri Lanka or a person in or, resident in Sri Lanka carrying on a
permitted business to supply goods and services under duty free concessions to passengers arriving in or
departing from Sri Lanka at the ports in Sri Lanka irrespective of the residential status of the passenger to whom
such goods and services are provided.
(b) Such person shall not retain foreign currency so accepted, for a period exceeding 7 days from the date of
acceptance, without depositing in a Business Foreign Currency Account in the name of the person who
accepted such foreign currency or selling to an authorized dealer or to a restricted dealer, upon submitting
evidence to such effect.
(3) Any person resident outside Sri Lanka may in Sri Lanka retain in his possession without limit foreign currency
if such foreign currency was acquired by him whilst he was outside Sri Lanka or from foreign exchange
accounts maintained with authorized dealers or restricted dealers.
2. Period for retention of foreign exchange shall be as follows:-
(1) Any person who obtains foreign currency from an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer for a purpose
mentioned in an application made by him to the authorized dealer or restricted dealer and does not use
it for such purpose shall not retain such foreign currency for a period exceeding ninety(90) days from the
date of receipt of such foreign currency without converting into Sri Lanka Rupees.
(2) ( a) Any person who obtains foreign currency from an authorized dealer or a restricted dealer for a
purpose mentioned in an application made by him to the authorized dealer or restricted dealer thereafter
brings back to Sri Lanka said foreign currency or part thereof, such person shall not retain such
foreign currency for a period exceeding ninety(90) days from the date of repatriation without
converting into Sri Lanka Rupees.
(b) However, a person who obtained foreign currency notes for travel purpose up to the value of United
States Dollars10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies under sub paragraph (1)(a) of paragraph
1 shall be permitted to deposit into an existing foreign currency account maintained with an authorized
dealer or restricted dealer.
(3) Any person who proceeds outside Sri Lanka for taking up employment, professional work or setting up
a business, earns or receives foreign currency from such employment, profession or business and
brings back to Sri Lanka, such person shall not be entitled to retain such foreign currency for a period
exceeding ninety (90) days from the date of its repatriation without converting into Sri Lanka Rupees or
crediting into a foreign exchange account opened and/or maintained by such person in accordance with
the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
3. For the purpose of this Part -
"authorized dealer"shall have the same meaning as in the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017; and
"restricted dealer" means any person, class or classes of persons not being an authorized dealer, permitted by the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka to deal in foreign exchange under paragraph (a) of Sub section (2) of Section 4
of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
35A
SCHEDULE   II
Gazette No. Date of issue Purpose
1947/13 29.12.2015 Order under subsections (1) and (2) of section 17 of the Exchange Control
Act (Chapter 423)as repealed by the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
1947/15 29.12.2015 Order under section 6AB read with section 44 of the Exchange Control Act
(Chapter 423) as repealed by the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
1686/50 01.01.2011 Order under subsections (1) and (2) of section 17 of the repealed
Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423) as repealed by the Foreign
Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017
1631/36 1 1.12.2009 Order under section 17 of the repealed Exchange Control Act (Chapter
423) as repealed by the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
1854/3 17.03.2014 Order under section 17 of the repealed Exchange Control Act (Chapter
423) as repealed by the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
LD. B 10/2017
FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  ACT,  No.  12  of  2017
Order under  Section 31
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by subsection (3) of section 31 of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017, I, Ranil
Wickremesinghe, Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs do by this Order, determine that such persons as
specified in the schedule hereto shall be residents in Sri Lanka for the purpose of the aforesaid Act.
Direction issued under the Exchange Control Act (Chapter 423) as repealed by the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 and
published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 15007 of April 21, 1972 is hereby revoked.
R
ANIL W ICKREMESINGHE ,
Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs.
 Colombo,
17th November,  2017.
SCHEDULE
1. Any citizen of Sri Lanka or any citizen of a foreign country married to a citizen of Sri Lanka, if such person has been in
Sri Lanka for a period of 183 days or more in aggregate during the preceding 12 months.
2. Any citizen of Sri Lanka:

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.11.2017
36A
(a) who has proceeded outside Sri Lanka temporarily on holiday, education, business, medical treatment, or for any
other similar reason, for a period not more than 182 days in aggregate during the preceding 12 months.
(b) who has proceeded outside Sri Lanka on a Student or equivalent Visa granted by another country.
3. ( a) Diplomatic Representatives, Consuls or Trade Commissioners of the Government of  Sri Lanka resident outside Sri
Lanka (by whatever name or title designated);
(b)  Any person who is a citizen of Sri Lanka, if he is a member of the staff of any person referred to in paragraph 3 (a)
above;
(c) A member of the staff of a Government Corporation, a Government Institution, a Statutory Board, a licensed bank or
a Company which is incorporated in Sri Lanka; serving abroad, except for those recruited abroad;
(d) Any member of the family of any person treated as being resident in Sri Lanka under the paragraphs 3 (a) to 3 (c)
above.
4. Citizens of foreign countries who are resident in or employed in Sri Lanka under the relevant visa issued by the
Department of Immigration and Emigration but not passengers in transit to other countries or visitors touring the
country for pleasure or business.
5. Following institutions incorporated or registered in Sri Lanka irrespective of the status of the citizenship of the persons
owning, controlling or managing such institutions;
(a) Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka;
(b) Overseas Companies registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 including branches of licensed banks
incorporated outside Sri Lanka (foreign banks);
(c) Companies registered as offshore companies;
(d) Clubs, societies or any other organizations including Non-Governmental Organizations registered in Sri Lanka.
6. Trustees of another country of will trusts or inter-vivos settlements and administrators of estates or executors of last
wills when acting solely in that capacity where the deceased at the time of death, or the settler at the time the settlement
was made, was a resident in terms of the paragraphs 1 to 5, above.
7. Citizens of Sri Lanka who are employed on a Sri Lankan ship, within the meaning of the Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52
of 1971 during the period the individual is so employed.
8. Individuals who are citizens of Sri Lanka or of Sri Lankan origin who do not satisfy the conditions in paragraphs 1, 2, 3
or 7 above shall deemed to be residents in Sri Lanka only for the purpose of opening and maintaining Personal Foreign
Currency Accounts subject to the regulations, orders and directions issued under the Act.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.